ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11823	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 34th session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. As so far, our regular guests have been invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies, as well as NGOs and media representatives. I warmly welcome all arrivals of MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MPs Nermin Purić and Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. According to the information service, 34 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As you are familiar with today's session, we have called in accordance with Article 62(3). The Rules of Procedure shall, at the request of the majority of the members of the College, at the request of at least 10 Members. So SNSD, SDS and SDA members applied for this session on 17 September 2012. You've received requests. The session is scheduled for practical reasons after consulting all clubs. I must say, we didn't have a consensus either in the College or in the Extended College on the terms, but in order to respect all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure this term was entered for today. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. If there are no reports, I'll close the hearing. I find that the 34th session of the House has the next Agenda 1. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on Parliamentarian Asim Sarajlić's proposal to supplement the 33rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 06/09/2012: "Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, as the authorising officer, I propose an addition of the agenda, so as to include the point 2 which reads: Resolvement from the duties of the current deputy speaker/chair of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representative Denis Bećirović and the appointment of the new deputy chairman/chair of the Parliamentary House of BiH" 2 Since, in the current practice of the Commission report of the College which you have received and which, as you have seen, did not reach agreement today, we are declaring ourselves in the second round on the proposal of MP Asim Sarajlić. I note that if the proposal is adopted, the item is considered to be included in today's agenda and I am opening a debate on it. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 19, against 14, abstention 2. I konstatovati it wasn't 2/3 against putting this point in the agenda. Now I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Dear Ambassador Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11824	This is not a discussion, Your Honor, this is a business intervention. I'll, of course, answer for the discussion a little later. Since we've put this item on the agenda, I'd like to ask you to explain the procedure that follows what's on the agenda. We have a conclusion, unanimously adopted, the House of Representatives College, which says: 1. The House of Representatives College found that the way members of the Home College were resolved was not regulated by the Constitution of BiH, the laws, nor by the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives; 2. The question of resolving members of the House Colleges is necessary to regulate the business as soon as possible; 3. The College shall be in charge of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives to propose, as soon as possible, amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to which the question referred above will be regulated. This is unanimous, I repeat again, adopted on September 05th at the College of the House of Representatives, after which the Extended College agreed to this. Come on, so to be lighter, if nothing, no one, including the proponent of this initiative, had anything against these conclusions. So, before the very beginning, it would be important for you, as chairman, to inform us which procedure is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the law, and to give us information, if you have, why the Constitutional Commission did not respect this deadline, or why the College did not respect the conclusion that, within the shortest time period, the Constitutional Legal Commission is in charge of proposing amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to which this question is not regulated, which has not been regulated so far. After this, we will be able to speak further in the business sense of this procedure. Everything beyond this is a gray zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11825	Thank you. 3 I can interpret your discussion as a discussion of this point of the agenda because we opened the discussion. In this discussion, we will come to this, depending on what the promoter will propose, how the other MPs will discuss, whether or not there are business specifics that treat this issue, means we have opened the agenda point, or whether this House will treat this point of the agenda, or whether your proposal is put to the vote. Therefore, a debate is being opened and we will come to the conclusion of whether this issue is settled in business or not. Frankly speaking in the College, we had no agreement, and when there is no agreement in the College, it is known that the House is making a decision. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11826	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. A brief replica just, respecting what Col. Magazinović said, the SNSD Club didn't participate in it, we weren't even at that session, but it's not that important, but we can now say the position. These conclusions and what was discussed cannot go in the direction, and of course SNSD does not accept that, that the Rules of Procedure is wrong only when someone needs to be replaced. So everything is, when we choose, we have all the provisions and it's all clear, but when we get into a situation that we don't accept that we can send a message that no one can change in this country because there's something wrong. I accept the good part of this debate that our Rules of Procedure are not perfect and that all these provisions can be completed and that they are more efficient and clearer, but I do not accept that there is such a situation in the Rules of Procedure and that such a message can be sent that no one can be removed because there is no good written, respecting that these provisions can be variable and that they can be better and that procedures can always be clearer and more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11827	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magahzinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11828	The Honorable Chairman. I asked for business intervention, please treat my previous discussion in this way. Now I'm replicating what you said. You said that there was no agreement in the College, which is incorrect, because the College adopted these conclusions, which I read, unanimously, and you also voted for these conclusions, as they agreed with them and all those present at the session of the Expansive College. counterpart Kalabić also says the SNSD Club did not participate in this, which is also not true, unless counterpart Živković left the SNSD club in the meantime, and he did not, I know he did not, is a SNSD man. Mr. Živković therefore agreed to these conclusions. But now it doesn't matter who he was who he wasn't, they all agreed. I just asked that, because it will have a major impact on the way we discuss it and the direction of the discussion, that 4 in advance we have an interpretation of whether there is a procedure and that the chairman introduces us to the procedure. And it was also a question why was not called a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which had the task, unanimously adopted by the College, to propose amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure,...for this session to know, in which the issue will be regulated above, so these procedures. It is absolutely not disputed that if there is a new majority that is implemented and implemented in the House of Representatives and that is the most normal thing that can happen, it is only, just here we call for this information – why the Constitutional Commission has not met on this issue and what procedure we are working on today.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11829	Thank you. dom Chairman, Dr. Milorad Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11830	Thank you. I, as chairman, have had the duty to tell you what we are or what we have not been able to agree in the College, and now as an MP to this House and as a man who is acting as chairperson at this moment, and who I have received the trust of all of you here in Parliament by consensus, to give my opinion on this item of the agenda. The way people are placed here in office if it isn't settled in business, and I stand behind what I have signed here, that there is no business statement stating how the chairman, or vice president, is resolved, but also in the legal practice of how it is appointed the same way is being resolved. I, to be asked, when this item of the agenda is opened and this House decides, and you can please do so immediately to get me off this position,...to respect colleagues who come from the RS because I also come from there, but also colleagues who come from the Federation if they raise the question of my resolution I will put it to the vote, after which I will resign what was settled with the Rules of Procedure. So don't judge the matter. It is possible for counterpart Bećirović to see what this House thinks of its presidency or its deputy post that after deciding to resign, it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So there are business opportunities, but blockades, the moral integrity of each of us can give us a direction so we can end this point of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11831	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11832	Although I promised not to participate in this because others are determined which, but here, by the case, my colleague Saša, Milorad Živković is not Željko Komšić and remains firmly in the SNSD. As far as I'm concerned, 5 means his position to be there for something. The other thing seems to be that we've gone from red to the gray zone too little and that gray zone is starting to cause problems. But to be serious, we're not far from here to agree but to understand attitudes. Here, now Mr. Živković has just explained what was the essence of my replica, when, I have no problem supporting the conclusions that were then, but not for the reason that you abuse them in a way that there is no possibility of anyone's shift. Those conclusions can tomorrow be taken by the Constitutional Commission and done by our Rules of Procedure. I didn't realize today when you talked about it being a blockade, but that the Rules of Procedure would be done to resolve it more precisely, but I didn't realize it and I don't believe that any of these people who participated in the creation of these conclusions felt that this would go in that direction. So, and no, not that it's controversial to be there, because when that question was found on the agenda people logically noticed that there are things that can be done and that can be done more effectively, but they can't accept it, so they can't accept, exactly what Mr. Živković was talking about, that I'm taking part in something that I'm sending a message that whenever anyone needs to be replaced, it was Mr. Živković, that there's a life stopping there and there's no way that there's no paper, that there's no pen, that there's no pen, that there's no pen, that there's no this, that. So, all these people who participate in this process will remain members of this Parliament, will continue to be elected and I think we should preserve Parliament's dignity and procedures and all of this. No one from this Parliament goes except me, of course, I hope that in a few days I will leave this Parliament to, with respect for my colleagues behind the back who will stay behind, but therefore I said – let these procedures indeed, around most of them, this is already coming in, this is exactly what he was talking about, the moral question and the rest. And that's our view of these conclusions. So they should be realised and respected but not for the purpose of blocking Parliament's work. So that's the point. And everybody knows, there's a lot of lawyers here, that when the selection procedure is analogous to being the same as someone, how I might have a majority to choose from, but I don't have any possible majority to shift. Anyway, I'm sorry it's about Mr. Bećirović, to be honest, it doesn't apply to anyone, but I think that there will be a variety of choices, we must at least agree on the principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11833	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11834	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. Just a fellow Kalabić to draw attention to. So, I absolutely understand, first of all, the position Kalabić is speaking from and of course I will not feel sorry for him because I don't think it's for regrets yet, but counterpart Kalabić that you are alive and healthy to me, so we will see you in this House. As far as I'm concerned, I'll at least get you... Cheers.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11835	I don't have any more applications for discussion. Dear colleague Mirza Kušljugić, right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11836	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. 6 I don’t think it’s right not to say a few words about such an important part of the agenda. Reading the explanation of Agent Asim Sarajlić's initiative, which I see this morning was marketed by SDA, SDS and SNSD clubs, to launch a procedure for resolving SDS's representative Denis Bećirović from the position of the vice-president, i.e. the chairman of Parliament's House of Representatives, as well as the text previously submitted to us by the SDS Club initiative, I cannot help but identify the contradictions between the interpretations in certain initiatives and the fundamental lack of ground to actually launch an initiative to resolve Denis Bećirović with the reasons given. First of all, it is not clear to me whether I should discuss the text given here by Mr Sarajlić or whether it is also possible to discuss the explanation provided by the SDS. So, the SDS probably gave up its reasoning of the initiative and we're only discussing this text. And since it is not clear to me to the end, I will look primarily at the text given by Mr Sarajlić, and only in one part in the explanation given by the SDS. The reason for the initiative to launch is under 1st, I quote, given that the SDP again for no reason after the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court ruling launched an initiative to replace Dr Denis Zvizdić from the position of the BiH Federation's Speaker's House of Representatives, the SDA is launching an initiative to replace Denis Bećirović, deputy chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. The beginning of the second argument – Denis Bećirović is co-responsible by implementing the SDP policy as BiH, etc., etc. It is clear that the initiative with all the arguments, which really do not deserve a particular comment afterwards, is not actually an initiative to replace Mr Bećirović from the presidency, but has a very different political background. And if that's what I think it's okay to talk about it that way. The SDP's motion to resolve Denis Zvizdić has been explained as the process of forming a new parliamentary majority that has also been recorded in this Parliament. It was explained in a way that after the SDA, which made the parliamentary majority, did not vote for the Budget of the BiH institutions, which was a prerequisite for an arrangement with the IMF and a continuation of the EU integration process, a new parliamentary majority was formed in this Parliament and in the process and in the cantonal, and in the federal, and in the state parliament was launched on a transparent basis, announced with quite precise arguments. So, I don't think we're actually discussing Denis Bećirović's shift today. In principle, if the SDA initiative is a presentation of the new parliamentary majority they have, then I think it's a turn to say. If it was done on the platform of text that was given here, then it's okay to tell us, especially with the explanation that was also given. I quote, as chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, he unnecessarily and hastily interfered in the domain of foreign policy and wrote unnecessary letters, using the position of the College member for his personal and party interests, instead of state and general interests. This kind of fits with the text that we received from the SDS which, as the Club, resents Mr Bećirović that the reputation of this Parliament has collapsed with the texts he has sent. 7 Look out, there are no officials in BiH who have not delivered their opinions at official meetings which are not previously agreed, and not in the memos addressed to the chairman of Parliament, but even at the Council of Security meetings, the highest authorities, and also on, as representatives of this Parliament in the Council of Europe. And for this reason, the Foreign Affairs Commission has launched an initiative not to give at least international meetings views that are not in line, which, on the basis of Council proposal, Hadjiahmetovic, the Commission has passed on to the College and has never come to this House. The SDS' arguments are clear. It is not only clear to me whether this attitude of Mr Sarajlić corresponds with the arguments given in the text. And it would be interesting to know if there is such a new parliamentary majority whether it is also based on these political views? In my opinion, and this is the position of the SDP, the arguments given have been constructed, they basically represent a process for something else entirely, and in this way they are actually destroying the reputation of this College. And only about a step that, announced in the agenda, could follow this, which is the choice of a new deputy, i.e. the chairman. We have the leadership of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of six officials who are at least elected by consensus in this House. I think it was, at the moment we haven't had the Council of Ministers yet, one of the successes that we've agreed on. According to the initiative launched here, I can assume that a concerted candidate in front of parties that have launched an initiative for a vacant Bosniak member's post could be from the SDA, unless there is some other strength finding that we have not been informed of. This means that in two important positions of the Bosniak people, we would have representatives from the SDA, who would not be elected by consensus in this Parliament, but would be elected without majority support from the Federation of BiH, according to the vote we had here, concerning the agenda point. I don't think that we're going towards overcoming the political crisis that we're clearly in, and I think that's how we open up some very serious processes. And therefore, I personally do not support the initiative, and the position of the SDP Club will be clear when the vote comes. This was not the case in the federal parliament when the initiative was launched because a qualified parliamentary majority was formed there. I would not really enter into the arguments given in the text delivered to us by the SDS, because I think the texts we can read, the speeches of high-ranking officials from all parties at meetings, and even written documents sent by officials of this or the House of Peoples, also contain political views. And it is not unusual for senior officials of Parliament to present their political views or views of the party they represent. Unfortunately, in BiH this is particularly, particularly said. Here's ten minutes, Mr. Chairman, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11837	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11838	Thank you, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. 8 So it is indeed an honor for me to be in this House and to lead to such a cultural, polite and parliamentary way of discussing such an important topic. Unfortunately, in the entity from which I came, there were shifts not least, but overnight, official vehicles were hijacked, changed locks by ministers until yesterday's colleagues. Constitutional courts at the entity level have declared that these shifts are both past the Constitution and beyond the law, and it was up to us, of course, to endure all this. And today here in this House and at the previous session and today in Canton of Sarajevo, of course, that the SDA and all the forces gathered around us are going to counter offensive. And of course, today we have nothing personal against the MPs, Dr. Bećirović. But Mr. Bećirović is a personification of a policy that has led to a crisis, according to us. The explanation is, of course, our attitude, the attitude of the U.S.A., and we all have different motives. The SDS also theirs, colleagues from the RS, also their own, but someone who is a crisis generator, someone from the election, I'll remind you that, here's the first meeting, if I'm not mistaken, about forming a power after the election Mr Lagumdžija had with the SDS, the first meeting. And we know the rashamoniad that was happening in the Federation, which is what Mr. Franjičević reminded me of earlier. And today we are having a very polite, democratic debate about a Bošnjak representative in this House who no longer enjoys our support, through procedures, through laws and as paraliamentary democracy requires everywhere. Will it be, Mr. Kušljugić, the new majority – so of course there will be most, because most of them are built through trust and daily work, not by playing protocol, signature and action today, each other, tomorrow. So it is my honor to do so today, in this way with dignity and Mr Bećirović will, of course, be in this Parliament and represent his policy, represent the interests of the SDP and the citizens who chose him. Unfortunately, I would like to be able to change in the SDP of Zlatko Lagumdžija, but I can't, because he was elected by party membership, but something that happens in the SDP by a member of the presidency, here are these processes that are today in Canton of Sarajevo, tomorrow who knows where, shows indeed that Mr Lagumdžija led all of BiH in the biggest crisis since Dayton to this day. Therefore, of course, as a follower of this policy, Mr Bećirović should bear the consequences, i.e. he no longer enjoys our trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11839	Thank you. Discussion, dear colleague Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11840	Mr. Chairman. Before I say a few sentences, let me just point out to Mr Sarajlić the fact that the BiH Constitutional Court has again rejected the appeal for the removal of the chairman in the Assembly and that this is therefore probably already a legitimate act. We in the SDP BiH have no problem with the shifts of our officials. Then when a new parliamentary majority is created, which, of course, publicizes it, we will go alone. We don't want any constitutional blakes. to make, disturbing some new people to make what's called a political agreement and progress in this country. However, the arguments offered for Mr Bećirović's shift are not at least intelligent. For the first time in the history of this Assembly, one official is replaced because he worked under the Constitution. For the first time in the history of this Parliament, by a majority will, or by the absolute will of nine MPs from the RS, who joins seven names from the SDA, one official is replaced, with the crowning reason that the man was mistaken for saying the following things. So he spoke towards the Constitution, the first point of the constitution, that BiH was a state and nothing else had spoken. Secondly, he communicated with the international public as others did. Third, he said and asked the chairman of the current assembly, that RS is not a state, but an entity. Third or fourth, he asked Ms. Slavica Dejanović to give her voice and contribute to the fact that the Chetnic movement cannot be leveled with anti-fascism fighters. So we are proud that Denis Bećirović is our member, who defended the BiH Constitution, that he has implemented the SDP policy in this House, which actually says that apart from BiH or besides BiH and anti-fascism, or that we will not negotiate with anyone about these issues. BiH is a state, it will be, and antifascism is the liquids we appreciate. Well, if you gentlemen of the U.S.A. think it's some kind of problem happy for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11841	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11842	Well, this is about who's not intelligent and who's intelligent, that's disputable. I would very much like to measure the intelligence of certain members of Parliament here, but I cannot. It's their private business and I have no intention of insulting anyone here. I want to clear a few things up. This item of the agenda is the SDA Initiative, because our Initiative was previously rejected at the College and the Expansive College. We have an initiative that is still in the process, if you didn't know, and it should be at the next session of this Parliament. Since the agenda point proposed by the SDA is practically identical with our request to be replaced by the chairman, or vice-president of this Parliament, we have accepted and will support their initiative, because the end result is the same. Our motives are clearly different about proposing this point. What happens in the Federation of BiH is not our problem and we don't think we're interfering with your relationship about it, but it reminds you that the story is that most Bošnjak are on one side and the minority on the other, so that's the rule you've set. You introduced the rule, perhaps in 2000, when most MPs here from the RS were from the SDS, so the SDS did not participate in the government. You should not talk about majority representation, because your product and product of your ideology is Željko Komšić, who eventually led to this situation and the political crisis in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11843	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11844	Thank you, Chairman. 10 And when it began to talk about the extraordinary session, the first thing that occurred to me was that there would be an extraordinary session for, that an initiative would be put in place for the removal of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda, for the reason that he had received the golden Olympic volleyball and had given them the honor of such a prominent official. As it became a practice for anyone to do anything affirmative for the BiH state to follow an initiative for his shift. And I'm glad that Mr. Bevanda's shift initiative isn't on the agenda and I welcome that act he did, although I think it put himself in danger of this newly formed coalition and still not most of it, suggesting his shift. However, when I received the materials, I saw that it was not about this, but about putting on the agenda the Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Parliament's proposal to Asim Sarajlić. This proposal, I did not make a mistake, but it does say that Mr. Asim Sarajlić's proposal is on the agenda today. Cyrillic is a Bosnian Herzegovic letter, which I am very happy to use, but the proposal is not a Bosnian Herzegovic word, so I find it a little strange that Mr. Asim Sarajlić has a proposal, but that's on the agenda and you've put it that way. But spelling is neither the escalator nor the escalator theme of today's session, the subject is of course what is the essence, so I'm going to base myself on the very reasons that are listed as reasons, is it, for a shift. One of the reasons mentioned in this, in my opinion, the unfounded explanation for Mr Bećirović's shift is the following. He says, as chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, he unnecessarily and hastily interfered in the domain of foreign policy and sent unnecessary letters. Mr. Bosić said earlier that today we are pleading on the SDA initiative that the SDS joined as well as SNSD, as the result of what they want to do is the same. You won't believe the same thing is this item in terms of unnecessary, sending unnecessary letters and tampering into the domain of foreign policy. So the SDS has the exact same formula in its pronunciation for the shift and says, among other things, that the problem is that Bećirović said that Chetnic ideology is a direct danger to BiH's integrity. Here, I will quote a few just sentences, the time allows me to do so, says – BiH Parliamentary Parliament Speaker Denis Bećirović, the deputy speaker of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, Slavica Đukić Dejanović, on the occasion of the latest activities in connection with the rehabilitation of Cetnik leader Dragoljub Draže Mihajlović in front of the Basic Court in Belgrade. I believe that we should promote some of the greatest values of civilization, peace, freedom, natyfasism, human rights and tolerance among different peoples. I give you this letter because I know that you yourself voted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia against the Law equating Chetnic, with the anti-fascist movement, stated Bećirević in a letter addressed to Slavica Đukić Dejanović. So this is part of the explanation why Denis Bećirović's shift is wanted. He then says Bećirović recalls that with negative repercussions of equalising anti-fascists and fascists both in the Republic of Serbia and neighbouring countries, he spoke openly, among other things, at a meeting with Boris Tadić and the chairman Dejanović. On this occasion as chairman of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I stressed that the continuation of the policy and rehabilitation of the Chetniks would represent a civilizational backdrop in the fight against fascism and neofascism. [[Common discussion]] Chairman, can we just stop time while I intervene? 11
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11846	We're not at the basketball game. You've got plenty of time. I understand that there is a way for each of the SDP MPs to use a maximum of 10 minutes, that's according to the Rules of Procedure. I, if it means seeing that the session won't be able to end within a certain deadline, I'm going to have to limit the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11847	Can I go on? I can. Therefore, it is further said in the explanation, therefore in these promematic texts of Denis Bećirović, that it is problematic that he said that the conclusion of the process of legalisation and Chetnicism and Chetnic ideology in the Republic of Serbia is not only an internal matter of the Republic of Serbia, but also a legalisation of the long pathways of the Chetnic project of creation, at the expense of other countries in the region, etc. This is one of the problems mentioned in the explanation. Another problem also cited in one of the reasons for the shift is that Anatolia's agency sent an open letter, he said he sent an open letter to Serbian Parliament President Nebojša Stefanović, protesting his position as the Republika Srpska state. Furthermore, it said in the news that during yesterday's visit to RS Parliament Speaker Igor Radojićić in Belgrade, the president of the Serbian Parliament addressed journalists all the time as state and country. Bećirović said it is dangerous to claim that one entity is a state, and that RS has never been a state nor will it ever be. So that's another one of the things in this explanation for the shift of Denis Bećirović. I don't know how many hundreds of pages are here, which wasn't a problem for those who submitted this initiative, so the material with statements heading towards the establishment... due Kradžić and Krajišnik, no decision from The Hague will change the position of the Serb people that Mladić is a hero, Bosnia will fall apart remains Serbian, the referendum will split in 24 hours, it's time for a peaceful association and that I don't read any further, that I don't take away your time and myself, so it's not problematic but it's problematic when it's said that BiH is a state. Therefore, if Denis Bećirović is to be removed because of what he said, it will remain recorded in history that he is the first man in BiH who has been removed for the reason he has highlighted the values of anti-fascism and has fought very sincerely for the protection of the BiH Constitution and says that BiH is a state and not its entities. And that we are no longer going in this direction, to return to the question of the parliamentary majority. So, it would be good, it would be good for any of those who signed this proposal, Mr Sarajlić, to let us know if there is a new parliamentary majority, to shorten all these procedures. There is no need for us to be exhausted at these sessions and to schedule any extraordinary sessions, if there is a new parliamentary majority, to make it public and that this new parliamentary majority is perfectly legitimate, democratic, however you wish, implementing that majority, not only here in the House of Representatives, but also in the House of Peoples, in the Council of Ministers and wherever it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11848	Thank you. 12 Replica, dear colleague Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11849	Well, first of all, I think it's absolutely incorrect from Mr. Magazinović, although he knows very well that this is not the point of the agenda, because here we are not discussing our initiative, I have already drawn that out, that the whole discussion is based on it. I think maybe you as chairman could point to that fact in his discussion. I'm sharing their need to transfer this SDA initiative to the field of combating international rises in tensions which are larger Bošnjak by showing who's here against the SDS. Just to remind you, Mr. Magazinović, that the SDS voted for Mr. Bećirović to be a member of the College, that without SDS's vote he would not be a member because the SNSD did not want to support him then. And since we did that, then we have the right to ask that he be removed because he did not fulfill what was expected of him as a member of the Kolegijum. And just to remind you, reading it isn't part of our explanation, it's part of the papers of his letters to various institutions. And the reason why we asked for his resignation was because he signed on those letters as vice-president of Parliament, the BiH House of Representatives. And he, as a member of the Kolegijum, can only give opinions that he has agreed on in the College. He didn't do it wanting to catch cheap political points with some populist policy, and that's why we decided to launch our initiative. But let me remind you once again, this isn't the point of the SDS agenda, this is the point of the agenda that SDA was looking for. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11850	Just a little bit, please. Before the business intervention, and You if you want to stay in business intervention, of course you will get the word, so you have decided that the explanation provided by the SDA and which states that as chairman of the House of Representatives needlessly and... interfered in the domain of foreign policy and wrote unnecessary letters to refer to the letters you had in front of you. What coincided is that these are the letters SDS suggested, you could have added some other. So I'm counting on you to be on the agenda, because it says here -- unnecessary letters, counting on them to be unnecessary letters. In any case, to go further with this session in the direction that we agreed at the Extended College that we had given the club's bosses at least 10 minutes, which according to the Rules of Procedure have the right to determine, I am now asking MPs to apply to all those who want to discuss, we are not counting on replicas. Replications will be made possible according to the Rules of Procedure for each and every three minutes, but I want you all to sign up who you want to speak to so I know if I can limit the discussion to five minutes, so we can finish this job today. So please all of you who want to sign up for the discussion to sign up. I'll close the list, so you're logged in, so if you want to log in, you want to sign in. Okay, so I'll close the list and limit the discussion to five minutes. And now for business intervention, dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11851	Article 10. Rules of Procedure – right to freedom of expression. So, my colleague Bosić one way and he warned me and called me incorrectly my presentation, and I am calling on this member of the Rules of Procedure and I am asking my colleague to chair you to protect my right. So the right to freedom of expression, attitude 1. - the MP has the right to freedom of expression; 2. - the MP has a duty to deal with issues of political and public interest; 3. – the rights and duties set out in the first and second positions of this article are met in the Parliamentary Assembly, in domestic and international institutions in which he was elected as an MP, representative of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, communicates with citizens, NGOs, representatives of all levels of government and political parties in BiH, representatives of other states, international organisations at public meetings, and through means of public information. This stance also presents an answer to the question, i.e. in a certain way, deny that the chairman, Bećirović, used some rights that do not belong to him, but this time I am calling for respect for the rights of MPs, above all from the SDP Club, to speak and speak freely without being warned about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11852	Thank you. It's a general provision, constitutional provision. I stuck to the Rules of Procedure in which the MP should hold the agenda. We have a agenda today, I've even stopped at your side saying that you were in the agenda, I think you had unnecessary business intervention, but that's your right too. Dear colleague Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11853	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I answered the line, and partly and incorrectly, in the discussion of counterpart Saša Magazinović. And since I answered the line, I will not answer for the discussion since I see that the list is largely debated and that there is a big debate here today because Denis Bećirović will be removed from the presidency's position. I'm simply astounded as, there's such a story and so many are to read what he said as if it were Šarl de Gol or some politician of that kind. Because of the many quotes that were and are listed here what Denis Bećirović said, and it was reportedly useful, I have reported for a replica and an incorrect quote to say that much of what Denis Bećirović did or said as chairman of this House has caused great damage to society in general, and insults and impreciseness and disrespect to one half of BiH, which is called the RS and one constituent people in this country. If not for everything as you quote that he was so well-intentioned and so useful as the chairman, I will now tell you a quote that is completely contrary to what you said. In fact, Denis Bećirović said on 21 April this year, which was passed on by a daily newspaper, not to advertise them here in Parliament, he said like this – in the case of BiH there are no peaceful differences, there are no clean lines, Czechoslovakia champagne or human emigrations. Everything said in this sentence is actually in the context of what happened in BiH in '92. A year. Is that the benefit of a politician, is that the benefit and well-being of one of the 14 presidencies of this House? And this is in the paper if you want, I can tell you what it is, and you can find it yourself. And this is just one sentence from an interview that he has done great damage and insult to both the RS and the peoples living in that entity. So, what you're quoting and what you're saying is that it's just one mere defense of Denis Bećirović that he stays at all costs here. And by the way, I also say about the new congregation majority, I don't know what the SDP is so worried about if there's going to be a new congregation majority, and if it's you, you're probably not going to be in that new congregation majority, and don't worry about what you're going to end up being an opposition just to talk about it, someone else is going to take care and work on being the new congregation majority.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11854	Thank you. Dear colleague Anto Domazet, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11855	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SDS initiative, I must mention, do not be angry, and the SDA's motion to replace the vice-presidential home of Dr Denis Bećirović, we in the SDP, view as two sides of the same medal. The key to polarising the drivers of these initiatives wants to be put in line with MP Denis Bećirović, although at first glance their confrontation with the political concept of the SDP, which, consistent with its action, promoted and implemented by Denis Bećirović. When analysing the essence of these initiatives, certain differences are observed. The SDS initiative is politically based and places on the sin of Denis Bećirović issues in which Denis came forward from the SDP policy position – on the reintegration of the Bosnian Herzegovina society, on strengthening BiH statehood and BiH institutions, on building the process of trust and reconciliation and respect for the decisions of the international court, on the character of the war in BiH, on caring care for anti-fascist traditions in BiH, etc. So, all the issues that the SDP has firm views on for years and which are without the SDP's guilt are at odds with the SDS' political stances. Therefore, it is not necessary to surprise the SDS' reactions to the steps of the SDP and this Parliament, both in the public and in the international communication in which Denis Bećirović, by nature of his function, performs in his own name and in the capacity of the function he acts, often appears. Denis Bećirović did not act as chairman or deputy chairman of this House as an individual and as an individual, but by promoting the SDP policy to which he certainly, as well as each individual, gave his personal note to these activities. As for the SDA initiative, the situation is very different. Namely, the party that is full of BiH's statehood, a declaration to strengthen BiH institutions and other issues that ensure BiH's strength, has launched an initiative against officials who insist on such values in the functioning of this House and in their own public statement. Citing in its initiative the highly unconvincing reasons for the launch of Denis Bećirović's SDA's shift, it almost ceases to act on political arguments, but in turn it becomes a late and up-to-date SDS accomplice to the destruction of Denis Bećirović. With this SDA accepts both the explanation and the political platform of the SDS from their initiative on the shift of Dr Bećirović. In this sense, the SDA's initiative loses credibility 15 and we in the SDP cannot even give rise to a principled understanding of the motives that led to it being launched, except for entering a new one, creating a new majority coalition. In the end, I'd like to ask myself, and I think all of us at the SDP Club are wondering, what principled question could the SDA provide 14 votes from the RS as is the case on this issue? This clearly shows how much SDA drowned in the demolition concept against SDP, its values and its people. You can draw your own conclusion on Wednesdays, from the fact that it is a new coalition, until the SDA loses its identity and becomes a pale accomplice of the political parties that bring down the SDP, in this case, Dr Bećirović. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11856	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11857	Dear fellow Domazet, don't lose your identity or any of your values. The U.S.A. remains on track for everything it's ever been. And I advise you to read the same text, the same discussion, back to the session when SDA ministers are replaced in the Council of Ministers, and instead of SDA you write SDP. So you need to be consistent, you should have reacted when a block was broken that was severely tortured here in BiH and that was completely needlessly broken. And then the whole line of government gets killed, except for the defence minister who brought the country to NATO membership, the security minister who's doing his job right, the deputy finance minister who has nothing to do with what we're talking about, then the federal level, and then the cantonal levels, overnight people find out they've been replaced into four cantons, neither guilty nor due. That's when you were supposed to talk about this, and not try now, it's sad that you're trying to tie SDA's position to SDS, even though the president of the SDS told you today that this is a separate initiative. This is a separate initiative, and this is our response to breaking one bloc that is good for BiH, broken by the SDP, you know. And you will bear the historical responsibility for it. So much in the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11858	Thank you. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11859	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This whole thing could never have happened. I will počeću only from the finding of a respected colleague of Bosić who reminded Parliament that SNSD did not vote for Mr Bećirović, which is now quite irrelevant. But I will support the discussion of the distinguished colleague, Milica Marković, and I will remind you of the following, just the first sentence I said, this should not have come to this and could have been avoided that what I said was respected. And I said at the 10th session of the House of Representatives held on 22 September 2011 and asked a parliamentary question, and in order not to deal with the speculation from the stenograms, I will only read about what was going on, so once again I am back on the 16th sentence, I support the prominent colleague Marković, then it was done to the RS and Serbian people as an alleged diaspora, although there is never a BiH diaspora, but in, national and those there are completely divided, but from the stenogram this was the case at that 10th session - Dear Mr Bećirović from the moment you took over the presidency of this House, according to the principle of rotation and according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, we have witnessed daily written information about your activities that has been placed by the Parliamentary Sector for Public Relations very zealously, I must admit, as never before. Among other things, there are your letters to the presidents and chairmans of other Houses of Parliament in which you sign as chairman and write on your behalf and on behalf of the House of Representatives. I ask you on the basis of what you write on behalf of the House, and therefore on my behalf, and are all these letters and statements, the information agreed with the two deputies, or is that the College's position or is that your personal position? I think it would be about the credibility of informing the public and the overall international relations between BiH and other countries, especially not to repeat situations like when you sent a letter to the president... a joint discussion of Slavko- Consultations completed, I continue well, when you wrote a letter to the President of the Parliament of Švedska Vestenberg, and then you were denied by the chairman of the second House and your first deputy with a letter claiming that all you wrote was solely your personal position, not the position of this Assembly or the House. From now on, such things, i.e. external communication, should be the subject of consent to the College, not the appearance of an individual who is currently acting as chairperson. From the stenogram below, I ask you, Mr. Chairman, therefore to Mr. Bećirović, who was chairman at the time, the question, very quickly, Mr. Chairman, so from the moment you entered the position of the chairman, which is good and everyone congratulated you, you have introduced one practice that is good, you refer letters to all parliaments without the consent of the College, but you can do it as congratulations, some day of statehood congratulating the presidents of the parliaments and I don't know either I or don't give Bog any troubles, that's fine, but when you have addressed the letter of the movie about Srebrenica to the parliaments of Sweden and Denmark, you have done it on your own initiative and, of course, without my support, let alone the College. I ask you to agree in the College when you give someone congratulations or when you sign or when you point to anything, that you do not act on your own initiative, that you can do so on behalf of your party and not as Parliament's chairman. You'll get, not to explain further, written questions. Thank you very much. Mr Bećirović's answer – I just want to ask you about this second question, I had two questions at the time, do you want an immediate written answer? I said - I want an oral answer. It was collegiate that we had a gentleman's agreement that I didn't need to be answered, but to break up with this practice. So this is the 20.11.2011 date and if he had then respected all this that was rational this session would not have been held today. Thank you very much. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11861	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11862	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, I will join those who want to discuss today's agenda, and this is the SDA's request for the replacement of members of the BiH House of Representatives, Denis Bećirović, and this initiative has also been joined by SNSD and SDS clubs. So, I'm not going to mention the reasons or arguments that we had in the previous session that were passed on to us by the SDS Club. The SDA sent us in writing the reasons which it states and which it considers relevant for the replacement of a member of the College, Dr Denis Bećirović. It's sad, I'm sad that we got this one, this one memo about, and I can't discuss a lot of things here that very easily and factually numbers can be denied, relativated, because there are really very funny and non-standing attitudes. But I will look back on what my colleagues have previously mentioned and something else that stands here, so that by his exclusive views Denis Bećirović has imposed an intolerable situation in the College of the House of Representatives. Gentlemen, I have never heard of it here, and I have been sitting since the beginning of this term, that any of the members of the College complained or mentioned that the situation in the College is insufferable, and on the other hand those who state it as an explanation for one of the reasons for the replacement of Denis Bećirović do not sit in that same College of Representatives' House. I want you to figure out what that is. It's an ordinary flossula that's being thrown out here. It is certain that, at least you can see from the reasons, the SDA considers writing letters to those who deny BiH to be Denis' personal position. Until I read this, I thought the SDA thought BiH was a matter of great importance to all of us, and it was not a question of the personal attitude of Denis Bećirović. Denis took an oath, like all of us, to protect both BiH and BiH, we took the oath and signed it. Is this an initiative for his shift means that the SDA believes BiH should not be protected and in a way that points to the negative phenomena that occur. I was not surprised and surprised by the SDA's position that has always been the protector of the Bosniak people, and then BiH, and now it writes such explanations for the shift of Denis Bećirović. But why don't we take a look at the one where this initiative comes in? It comes at two important moments, at a time when local elections are and at a time when BiH should take a decisive step towards NATO and the EU integration. And instead of dealing with how at the end of August the commitments signed in front of BiH, and all BiH leaders have signed and committed, we are dealing here with the shift of members of the Denis Bećirović College, of which it is not valid, but it will entertain the people and will talk about how the SDA started it. Sad and ugly. It is also, in my opinion, a step in which the processes in which BiH started and took a step forward should take it two steps back. However, the main reason they've stated in their explanation, number one, is that you're taking down our Denis, and we're going to bring your Denis to you. Well, in those two cases, there's nothing like it except the same name these two gentlemen have. Or maybe there is, but we're not familiar with that new majority in the SDP. My colleague just...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11863	Time. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11864	I'm sorry, I'm sure before the elections, BiH citizens will recognize what this is all about and that it's one of the most common pre-election, ugly pre-election campaigns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11865	Replica, dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11866	Well, this replica of mine refers not only to this discussion but also to all the previous ones. There's always talk here about BiH's collapse. Come... is the chair of Denis Bećirović, between his chair and the Dayton Peace Agreement, a sign of equality? Is no one from the SDP able to perform that role as a member of the Kolegijum anymore? The man broke the Constitution, the man broke the Rules of Procedure. Imagine what it would look like if each of his letters had been unconformed, which is what the Rules of Procedure obliges him to agree with the other members of the Kolegijum, Mr Živković wrote behind him, and Mr Ljubić wrote for him. What would that look like? And I will never agree on many things with you from the SDP, nor with Mr Bećirović, but I thought he was even principled and consistent. So when we are large-serb hegemonists, as you say yesterday, we from the SDS, followers, so-called criminals Radovan Karadžić, so you're not so repulsive to sit in a chair and take a chair from us. I expect the SDP to end up showing principledness, and for the reason that Mr Bećirović was chosen in due time by the SDS votes, to resign as a principled man and to say I will not sit in the chair voted by the SDS.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11867	Replica, dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11868	I would like to replicate to my esteemed colleague Pandurević that Mr. Bećirovi broke the Constitution and violated the Rules of Procedure. I'd ask her at which point did he break the Constitution? And I'll remind her of the following, of Article 1. The BiH Constitution where it says -- that BiH is a state, which Mrs Pandurević has repeatedly denied, i.e. violated the Constitution by making a statement that the RS is a state without being a BiH state. Well, I would warn her this time if it weren't good in this House where we represent BiH, primarily BiH, and then entities, to violate the BiH Constitution. Because we are really here, and respecting all the items, the first representatives of BiH citizens and entities, respecting both the RS and the Federation as two equal entities that exist on both Dejton and everything. And I don't know what he broke the Rules of Procedure for, I'd also like Mrs. Pandurević to answer me.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11869	Dear colleague Mirsad Mešić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11870	Just for a little while, Mrs. Pandurević. We don't have any problems with Denis Bećirović's shift when the qualified majority say, Denis will go alone. At the very least, it's strange when you revere Denis that he wrote something. Here, I have it in front of me, so I'll give you 19 later, a speech from my esteemed colleague, Milorad Živković, at 10. The Ionian-Adriatic Initiative when he said within the framework of the representatives of this Parliament – that the OHR should be abolished. In fact, I agree with him what he said, but we have never discussed in this House whether it is necessary or not. And you didn't get a chance to say it was something illegal against the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. I mean, all this doesn't make sense, form a new parliamentary majority, and we'll know what to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11871	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11872	Thank you. I must say to my koleginica Nermini that the problem is in that, BiH is a state, but what, and whose credit she came into a position to be who she is. It's amazing what I think is really amazing is that one big political party that, after a good election result, becomes the most undesirable partner. And what truly impressed me is that so far not one parliamentary topic led in this House has all SDP MPs participated in any of these, today they are all. Is it possible that so much SDP cares about that one place? I think political parties, regardless, even when it comes to changing their personnel, must keep a minimum of dignity. Don't let us go under there. Especially not what I expected the SDP to do. With the election result you got, you could have made a real turn. You haven't taken advantage of the chance, and don't be mad at anyone here in this room. These are your own mistakes that you'll have to pay for. Don't ask which is the congregation's majority, you don't have to do it to you today, no one is obliged to reveal it. The congregation majority will have to be made, but in that congregation majority they will no longer be you. There's something else I want to say about myself, Denis Bećirović. What I really resent is that he, as a young man, did not learn an important lesson, which is that politics is a skill that is possible. And he therefore thought that political action depended solely on him and on support in his political party, which is not the case. Therefore, no decision in this country, in this Parliament, can be made not to include representatives of the RS. If so, then how much someone wants to do good things in the country is seen by how much they want to share it with colleagues from the RS because they need their support. If someone points out one legitimate initiative submitted by Serbian MPs, which is related to that Law on the termination of the Law on the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office and if, on this one legitimate initiative which the MPs of the RS have directed and led in one democratic way in this House, it should be heard all if he sends to the representatives of the United States and the EU a letter saying that they need to sanction it as soon as possible and that it comes to the creation of the Supreme Court. Whose opinion was Mr Bećirović? To show that many lessons have not been learned and invite him to attend the session, he should attend the session and remember it is not the end of the world unless he is Denis Bećirović in the College of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11873	Thank you. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović, replica. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11874	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. Replica is Mrs. Uzunović. It is not the Party of Democratic Action that stopped BiH on the European path to not change the issue. So, if we haven't had the Council of Ministers for 17 months, Mrs. Uzunović, if the reason was that Mr. Lagumdžija's thinking would one day be the chairman of the Council of Ministers or the other day be the foreign minister, so that produced 17 months of informality of the Council of Ministers, then I guess that's why we had this stalemate in BiH, unfortunately. We formed it the Council of Ministers after 17 months of waiting for the ministers of the SDA in their positions, together with other ministers in the Council of Ministers, to launch the wheel of the European road again, this is what Mr Džaferović also spoke of my predecessors, not to repeat myself, to stop the wheel of the European road again. So we in the SDA weren't even about doing what was done in the Federation's space, we wanted all of the Bosnian-Herzegovic political forces to have one place in the function of strengthening the state and the European path first of all and the NATO alliance. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11875	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11876	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. Well, unfortunately, we have an obligation to respond to the appointment sessions of the House of Representatives very often need to attend something we don't like at all. Which is not in our priorities, which is not in our priorities or what is not in the priorities of our political parties. However, by respecting the institution of the president, by respecting the Rules of Procedure of this House, we have responded... to a session. And in the last session, when it was an initiative of a respected colleague, Sarajlić, we made our statement the way we said it and we repeated it today. I'm going to say something about the reasons why we made a statement about how we came forward and why we did it again today. Before that, I would like to point out clearly that we will always be in favour of the right of MPs, the right of representatives clubs, for the right of a group of MPs to initiate in the business procedure in this Parliament every question they think is necessary to discuss this Parliament. And to all those who challenge the right of any club, any representative to run for a particular issue, we certainly will not give support because we think that this is an essential parliamentary right, an elemental part of parliamentaryism, so to speak, democratic processes, a democratic way of deciding that every representative as an individual, every club of representatives, each group of MPs has the right to freedom of public expression, to initiate initiatives and to make decisions on their own conscience. On certain issues, which I will now mention, it may be possible to tell me that I should have acted through business intervention but I did not want to do so, I am normally asked a great deal of business today's agenda for this session. We had the initiative of a respected colleague, Sarajlić, to place the agenda item, not to quote it now, at the 33rd session of the House of Representatives. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure define what happens when the House doesn't have an entity majority. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its The Rules of Procedure, because the agenda is a matter that needs to be addressed immediately. It cannot be left for 3 days or 5 days for the College to agree on it and we are then, because this was a proposal for a agenda item for that session, we should have the opportunity to immediately plead in the second round, if we failed to consult in the College and so on. Today, we needlessly have a new session, a special session, even though what we have spoken about, that is, what we have here is a statement by the College on the proposal to include the item of the agenda for the 33rd session. We were not in the initiative of the three club representatives had a reasoned initiative to include this item of the agenda for the 34th session of the agenda. It may seem a little messy, but it's so business. I have no intention or will defend anyone's personal position, because I don't think there's anyone who can't, anyone who can be appointed can be removed. I'm not questioning that procedure either. The procedure under which anyone is appointed shall also be applied analoguely in the procedure of possible resolution. And it is not the end of the world that any man be appointed, and that any man be set free. It's something else for me, or here I think that even a significant part of these two MPs is problematic. We in this country have a whole series of problems that all our peoples, all our citizens, all our entities, all our cantons, all our municipalities and so forth. I'd really like to, even though I'm risking, here's a replica of some kind, that at least one 5-6 special session has been called up to discuss at least some of the topics that all of our citizens are having. I do not think that resolving the vice-president is such an important topic for BiH, so whoever it is, because that is important I will remind the Rules of Procedure again. In our Rules of Procedure, there are 12 counts of what are the powers of the President of the House. In a similar number of points you have counted what the powers of the House College are. But for a wonderful miracle, there is no authority of the vice president of the House anywhere.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11877	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11878	The Vice-President of the House, i.e. the chairman in his power and this session, the chairman could have scheduled, and had failed how much information I had, without the consent of all three members of the College, has the right to do so. Business is absolutely correct. I want to say how much the Vice-President's position is, in fact, essential and vice-president's essentially working 99% like all... MPs. If we're going to deny each other that we have the right to step forward as MPs, we're trying to define it in a certain way ourselves. The question is then, if we could, I'd rather otherwise personalize the responsibility of each representative individually, so that we can rule out someone from being a representative at all anymore. But that's a question of democratic principles again, and so on. This is a little over time, Mr. President, I haven't... intervened, I know you've got a business right to shorten the time it takes to complete all planned agenda points. We have one item on the agenda here, I don't see the reasons why we're cutting short, I'd rather we didn't have to come today. It's too expensive a party for all of us, so since we're already here, I don't see why we should cut short the time that's business, because this isn't a question of Denis Bećirović, it's certainly not a question of Denis, we're introducing a dangerous practice, it's a dangerous practice. The college is not without reason business, look, choosing as the College, at one session, we did not elect the first chairperson, at the second session of the deputy, and at the third third deputy, the second vice president. So the College functions as one body. I'm afraid that by introducing this practice at the next session, what I respect every member of the College can..., someone can fall back out of some intrinsic mind to initiate an initiative to replace someone else, to the next someone else, and in the meantime we won't be dealing with what we should be dealing with. And that's why we're against the debate at all about this agenda point. Thank you very much. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11879	Thank you. I have a replica about this. I thank my esteemed colleague, Niki Lozančić. So far, practice here in Parliament has happened several times, even in the last term, that the College does not agree on the inclusion of a part of the agenda immediately but subsequently. So that's not the first time it's happened, I've only followed the practice of this college so far, and so far the practice has been like this. Niko one questioned it when we discussed the agenda, nor asked this Parliament to make a statement because even in the College it was an agreement to interpret it so. The imperfection of the Rules of Procedure now brings us to the point that we can question each individual point here. It's only right, and that's that this part of the agenda was supposed to be at the session and it couldn't be done by obstruction to not come to the session. How it ends, what direction we're going to go, it's a matter of discussion that's being discussed here. I estimated that if we gave every MP 10 minutes to have the right and each club still took half an hour to rest, which could also happen, that this session would take a long time to last, and that's why I decided to shorten for five minutes. Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11880	My kolega, Lozančić, let me just say that this isn't the first case that we have a change in our colleague's home. In the last term after the mistrust was expressed, Mr. Mladen Ivanić, I was elected a member of the College. And it was in one session with no problem at all. So the dom expressed no confidence in one member and proposed to another and ended up in the same session. Not even three sessions were to be convened. That's one thing. And secondly, regarding your position that anyone can write. Each political party and each MP can write individually, but at the memorandum of their political party. Writing on the Home memo, that means you can write things that you would necessarily have to agree to in college. So that's not good practice. What Mr. Bećirović did is the biggest offense. And he was trying to fight for his political stances by writing around the world. So wait, please, if he brought it to the College, he wouldn't have the support for that attitude. So, please, on our memos, we can write what we want, and at the Memorial of the House of Representatives, we need to keep in mind what we write.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11881	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11882	I would be terribly happy if in this country it were precisely prescribed for every official representing this country and what should be done, and what should not be done, and what must be done, and what must not be done. Perhaps the initiative for Mr Bećirović's shift is a little late. That's what I've been thinking about. What you are calling Mr. Bećirović has mostly worked as chairman of 23 Houses. Take a business look at who's representing the House. The House's Rules of Procedure say that the President of the House, at this point, so I just asked, I don't know when the rotation is going on, tomorrow, is tomorrow, so here, Mr. Živković is by chance, here at this session, already not the chairman of this House tomorrow. So, it has full legitimacy, the legality of a business meeting, and it represents the House. We have prescribed cases, prescribed, here we are not prescribed. Look, the president is consulting with the deputies. So he just consults and doesn't have to listen to them. When they act as a committee, then they must make a decision by consensus, or here are other questions. It does not say anywhere that the chairman, let alone the vice president, should consult with anyone for some of his actions. Maybe you should write, maybe you should write, but it doesn't say. We have situations where it is prescribed that the officials of this country must seek a harmonised position, build it, so that they do not agree, do not build it. And not to remind you now of examples of the Security Council, someone has already mentioned it, and so on. So, I'm just saying that the sensitive question is that it has to be pure as tears of the Rules of Procedure. So we can't allow ourselves, especially that the reason for the shift, now I'm going to tell my chairman, gospodin Živković's dom, is because someone is angry with Igor Radojčić. You can think of such explanations. But if we give such arguments, that is also possible. What difference does it make? I specifically, so here's what I'm talking about right now is the president of this House who's doing a great job. And I realize there have been examples before. However, when it comes to the agenda, at the beginning of the session, any representative may propose to amend that agenda, at the beginning of the session, means and be declared. And then she's got 60 minutes, then a match, then a coming round, then a second round, when it comes to the agenda. When it comes to other things, it can last and last normally and be transmitted to several of these sessions. So here's just an appeal, so on principles and I appeal to strict respect for the letter of the Rules of Procedure, especially when it comes to such questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11883	Thank you. Comrade Mirsad Đugum, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11884	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests present at today's 34th session of the House of Representatives and the first pre-election session before the local elections in 2012. Dear colleagues and colleagues, at the College, the Extended College, which was held ahead of the session on 06.09.2012 this is clear, this is unclear, jurisdiction, that the Constitutional Commission may propose amendments to the Rules of Procedure and that, once they say, we try to reduce certain damages that arise from different interpretations of the Rules of Procedure. At that same session, the chairman of the SDA Club supported the SDS's full proposal and the SDS' explanation, but this argument did not receive the necessary majority in the College, in order to get a new proposal in 06th on the replacement of Mr Bećirović, 06.09.2012. 24 For me it is a little vague absolutely, and I also said to the College, it is the right of every MP and group of MPs to call a session, but there was no new explanation for calling this sitting. I don't understand why the Constitutional Commission, if nothing, has yet met and given a certain opinion on this. It is unclear to me because within this deadline, a number of MPs and MPs had the approval to stay and represent BiH in certain countries outside, they had the responsibility of even having certain chairmanships of certain sessions. It's unclear that it came in 17th, it has to be done immediately in 19th, I think it's even deliberately done with one process to know exactly where the MP is in that period. The Alliance for a Better Future cannot accept such an explanation for the shift of Denis Bećirović, although this is not... that the Alliance for a Better Future wants to protect the individual, but in this way, with this explanation that has been delivered, we absolutely do not agree and we cannot accept. There really should be one thing that the chooser should not keep his promise, as we heard through one discussion, the promise of someone he was appointed, but should stick to the Rules of Procedure, the Law and the Constitution, as well as all the other MPs. And that can't be an explanation, so he hasn't fulfilled someone's promise or expectations and that's the reason for the shift. If a new parliamentary majority is not really formed then this is a pure pre-election trick. A pre-election trick to raise political tensions for BiH citizens and forget about poverty, poverty, unemployment and hunger. And we know who brought us into all this. This session of the House of Representatives is the first pre-election in 2012 and I don't think it will happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11885	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11886	Business intervention, I don't have a chance to sign up like that here, so don't write me another line. I'd like to ask you, I have a need to react already, there's a lot of mention of the Constitutional Commission in the discussions, so it's time to say how things are. When he's a Rules of Procedure, I'll talk about it in a discussion, but for now, I would ask all those who mention the Constitutional Commission to read Article 4. The Rules of Procedure, Rule 41, specifically which speaks of the authority of the Constitutional Legal Commission, Article 79, Articles 164 and 165, and with a sound logic of power draws the right conclusion. I don't want to talk about it much anymore. And as for article 80 and how to call this session, I am in line with those who feel that otherwise this session could not be called. It is true that there is a difference between the vote, the majority vote from the entity and the lack of adequate support in the entity's second round concerns all the issues voted on here and the issue of determining the agenda is not raised. It is one mistake, and I am working on the preparation of the Rules of Procedure, and this is the subject for committees, I suggest that it take this matter into consideration, because it should not happen in the Rules of Procedure to share the fate of all other issues, because it would not be the right of the College to have three days, but to agree immediately on the spot and to include it in the agenda. The other way, people, it wasn't here, it was that at this session, after 25 that it was found to be the agenda, it continued. Because we can't put it back in the previous session, because the previous session is over. So there's no other way, it's just so business. As for the Constitutional Commission, who finds me in Article 41. The Rules of Procedures that this is a constitutional commission's business, and we're going to put this in session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, they're going to get a reward. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11887	Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11888	This absolutely, my part of the discussion or debate was not to criticise the work of the Constitutional Commission, although I have reasons, even in that part to remind the Constitutional Commission that it had held three years in the grip of BiH with Article 48 on the census, that it was so important and then suddenly it didn't matter because the coalition agreed overnight, during the night they agreed on certain things and then it didn't matter. It is also in this section, and I think that the Constitutional Commission should be declared, put forward a proposal, and then it is up to Parliament to declare this, too, the amendments to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11889	Dear colleague Adnan Bašić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11890	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. From the beginning of this surprise session, believe me, since I'm just listening and, of course, I think a lot, I've never felt sadder in a session. I think we all kind of abused who we are. Remember a wise saying that says, "Kill me too hard." Yeah, they can do words like that, but in certain situations, in certain times and with certain people. I have a feeling today is being judged by that former verbal delicacy. I have no idea how to defend Mr Bećirović. Mr. Bećirović has everything I don't have, he has a much better chance of defending himself than me and my help he doesn't need, but I feel my human duty to say something about all this as an MP, you know. According to many of the views Mr Bećirović has expressed, which, for which he is being accused here, I fully agree and would support them, believe me, whether someone likes it or not. I can't do that in those professional ones for whom they're on their way, because it's part of an obligation that I don't do as an MP, but members of the College do, so we understand each other very well. However, this associates me with other times when similar things have happened. I'll tell you what I've come to, so think carefully about it. Once upon a time, and I experienced, there are few here who at that time of their childhood were like me, when many fathers went to so-called. official roads only for one single word. In a country we recognise as the highlight of the democratic principle, the United States, had a similar period. Remember the famous witch hunt and Makarti, that cruel, terrible senator behind whom there was an even more powerful man with the gray eminence of the Americas... Huer?Who, of course, composed it all, and was ruled by such fear that even the man in the White House was afraid of 26 of that powerful man. And that's when it was only meant to be said. Intellectualism in America was strangled, a huge number of free-minded people were imprisoned only because of a spoken word or the danger of belonging to someone who spoke such words. It's dangerous to play with people's feelings. And listening to this, I want to tell you in the end what I mentioned, don't you feel at least a little bit that this has turned into one man's trial today? And we've all shared the stakes here. Someone here is a prosecutor, some defense attorney, and all of us sitting here have become some grand jury who will finally pass his sentence, and you, as chairman, Mr. Živković, will just announce that verdict. That's what we've come to. And that's why I'm sad and I agree with many who are very smart and cleverly saying that this tall House, this House of ours, has much, much more important things to expect us to do, not to deal with ourselves. And finally, if this is undefined by the Rules of Procedure, and it's proven to be, let's use the experience of rich countries in democracy. Let's start, because we don't have a senate, we don't have a congress, we have a Parliament, some kind of Senate commission or congressional that they already have, so that it solves such a painful thing away from the public's eyes, and we don't want to get in the face of this whole public discussion, these kind of attacks, at the end of the proceedings against only one man. And someone who said it is right – the world will not change if we replace Mr Bećirović, nor will this Parliament cease to function. But the way we do it speaks a lot about us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11891	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11892	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I expected that today we would have the honor and pleasure to see Mr Bećirović here and at least show so much dignity and courage to tell us here in the face of everything we could read these days. As for the reasons of the SDA, their arguments stand more or less apart from what I would disagree with, that Mr Bećirović was wrong when he voted in favour of the budget. We got here and some other reasons for some other shifts that were, but we didn't mind voting for them. I will remind you that we had one argument that said to launch an initiative to resolve the two ministers because this is what SDP leader Zlatko Lagumdžija is asking for. That was an explanation. Today we could see that that SDP wing, the state for man, had an evolution in the state, which is us. If there was no reason why we supported, for which we will support Mr. Bećirović's shift, what he did after the SDS announced an initiative for his resolution, those letters that he wrote, those difficult scary words, I really repeat scary words, show that he is not up to that function he performs, shows all his maturity. And I don't want to talk about those mother calls coming here and their answer. What do you think when we were replacing ministers, here from the U.S.A., they could have invited their NGOs to come here. 27 One of these letters, which Mr Bećirović later sent, sent an open letter to the Federation leaders, where the Federation leaders are invited to office, to reach an agreement and offices on how effective protection of the state would look, I guess, from us, and the construction of a state of true equal peoples and citizens. At the state level, we push party and local policy in favour of state policy. Let's set a red line below which you can't go on a state level. How do you mean to do that, how he meant to do it without, here's Mladen Bosić and SNSD leader? And then it's said in that same letter, they, i.e. We, in the long run, will not give up on our great state and hegemonistic ambitions. So yesterday comes another statement -- my main political opponents are those political forces in Belgrade and followers of the SDS in BiH that do not give up destroying the BiH state. So Mr. Bećirović really gives himself little too much importance and reequates himself with the state clearly. Some SDA party leaders have turned the SDA into a puppet of politics between Belgrade and the SDS. In the case of the game, our views here on the matter of Mr Bećirović are unique and since he is constantly advocating an agreement, we expected that he would welcome what we finally have on the one hand and on the other, we agreed on something, which is that Mr Bećirović is doing his job badly. Further says Bećirović, his policy is in the way of SDS politics and hegemonist circles in Belgrade. I don't see that he has any policy really except that he sows discord, which introduces peoples and entities into confrontation, which, by his statements, separates people instead of dealing with the state for human and economic standards. Never in the last 50 years has hegemonist and grand Serb politics accidentally destroyed BiH politicians who are struggling openly for unity, equality and integrity of BiH. So then Mr. Bećirović mentions some physical liquidations, so he puts himself in a plane, evens himself with Džemal Bijedić and Hamdia Pozderc. I wonder what's behind these strikes and shift proposals? It is obvious that there are very dangerous intentions to divide BiH. So Denis Bećirović's chair is equal to BiH, which is spoken openly in recent days. They're naive people who think it's just a pre-election campaign. Well, naturally, this isn't a pre-election campaign, it's not a pre-election campaign at all, but a man has shown that he's immature, I repeat, a function he performs. And getting out of here confirms it again. Well, there goes this story, first time someone's changing. Well, my people, we're a democratic society. Being chosen, being removed is part of a democratic process, something quite normal. Perhaps in 2,3,4,8 years, Mr Bećirović will be some minister. I don't know how someone can't stand being replaced with dignity. And then Mr. Bećirović says that SDS is never and will never be justified, I expect it to be principled on the basis of that SDP statement yesterday about us as such or as such, and I expected that he would resign himself.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11893	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11894	And then, here I am ending the chairman, saying that the head can give but the homeland of BiH is not. These are terrible words. This is a scary rhetoric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11895	Replica, let's go, Zijad Jagodić. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11896	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, MPs, guests, the media, I welcome you all together. I did not count on replicating that the views of our party, or my party, are known, but what I would like to point out specifically to this occasion is that Mr. Denis Bećirović and I are coming from the same canton. What I'm particularly sorry about is that at all at this point, when he should be listening to all these statements about his work here, so at the end of the day he's discussing him, he's certainly looking at us around the corner, from some office, some space, which I find extremely unacceptable. He's an MP, he's the chairman, he's the chairman, I don't know what's wrong, but there's no problem. I believe that in a relationship like this, in a time like this, with issues like this, if it were possible for the MP to forgive him, but as the chairman and chairman of this Parliament, as the highest authority to ask questions, to follow, if his wish, BiH's progress in all its elements, which is certainly what he shows it is not. That's something, some news I want to point out right now. However, what is crucial, as a man in addition to all our views in the party, I find Dennis's failure, who is difficult... or forgive, is that it is a man, if he is fighting for legality, for constitutionality how could he publish the Budget of BiH without this Parliament adopting him? That's the key to mine, no matter what he wrote in the paper, whether it's true or not, I wouldn't want to comment on it. However, I believe that this is the biggest failure in my opinion and that if this process were to be analysed by BiH law enforcement institutions, I can imagine where it would take him. I don't want to talk about it anymore. However, in addition to all of our views, I believe that his great failure to put an end to the leadership of parliamentary delegations is a failure. A short time ago, we heard the situation, or words from colleagues from the SDP, that they are fighting for European progress and so on, but I believe that the failure to establish the leadership of the Council of Europe, NATO, the OSC, is also a major failure. As for these other things, I remember well that during his presidency in this House, we had 70 points of the agenda. It was so simple for me somehow incomprehensible, but unfortunately of those dots there were least effects. And therefore, I would no longer like to comment, I believe that in all our views of the SDA party, they are what they are and are definitely suggesting that Mr Denis Bećirović cannot be and enjoy the reputation of this Parliament and I believe that we should go towards his shift.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11897	Replica, dear colleague Mirsad Mešić. Here you go, second one.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11898	Well, I wanted to answer Mr. Jagodić now, but here's why I won't. Mrs. Pandurević, there is no SDP or Denis Bećirović problem with the shift. That's what's gonna happen when it's legal, legitimate, and there's no problem. We have problems with what you're saying that Denis Bećirović can't write letters, he can't speak, he can't express his attitude, and that's okay. Mrs Dušanka and you said you shouldn't write this on Parliament's Parliament paper, okay. But we have a whole series of events and a whole series of letters that 29 officials of all political parties wrote and expressed as their views. Here, I didn't, I just said, since June 27th, Mr. Ognjen Tadić, who must have been up to his duty, as you say about Denis Bećirović that he may not be up to it, here's this up-to-date chairman, or vice-president, writing a letter and addressing Commander 5. The infantry regiment, Brigadier Knežević, where he tells him – Mr. Commander, dear brother, etc., and finally says - until the final victory, congratulating him... I doubt it, I doubt it, so the rumor is, therefore, I say it too, of course, I doubt that Mr. Tihić has given some kind of agreement on this – until the final victory, which may be, until the final victory of everything. Therefore, the fact that Denis Bećirović needs to be replaced for writing, here at the very least is not very...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11899	Thank you. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11900	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I answered this discussion by listening to previous discussions, and a lot of it was said what I was going to say. But here I'm looking at the thing, at least from these discussions, yes, and I'm sorry that still the current chairman of the College, Mr. Denis Bećirović saw this as a possible attack or a problem on him as an individual. Here we have today, so two initiatives or a month ago about voting on confidence for Mr Bećirović is in place, whether he is a chairor or a member of the College. These initiatives differ, but the time has come. And I'm sorry, in all these writings, and that I read, that Mr. Bećirović is looking for a problem where it really isn't. There is no fear here for BiH of any hegemony, of any kind of crossing of borders or that someone will defend either Denis himself or any of us individually. The problem is a little older nature, it dates back to four months ago. So, when individuals or individual political parties have created this problem, at the end of the fifth month, to culminate the problem in 26.06. and on the muscles called the Federation of BiH Parliament, where people have been removed, both the vice president and the president in one violent way. And in addition to my claim, the Constitutional Court's decision came about 20 days ago. And we tonight, today I have heard here, the malts of every colleague, where we call on the Constitution, the law and so on. We had a session after that. Niko of my colleagues and here on my right except for these here, nor down from the front row, did he say that there was violence in the Federation of BiH, or in BiH in the harshest way that could have happened, that all the constitutions were violated, all the laws and that the enormous damage had been done to BiH and the Federation, because this Parliament which acted more essentially than two months, and all the decisions it had made, means they were nothing, i.e. the work of Parliament was stopped. Both those, both illegal and illegal, and unconstitutional, dare to make decisions, and even now to propose the opening of tenders, or the replacement of the Federal Television Management Board, which is the goal of mastering not only the media space, but also the police whether to use it in their pre-election 30 campaign. And regardless of what we have today, we have proposals, decisions, suggestions and a high representative and a special representative of the EU and the US Embassy not to... do this, that it is a harsh violation of the law, which it is, that most do so. And today here I'm looking at some things, the fact is that the chairman of the Prlament can call a session, the fact is that we're mostly in here and professional deputies and there's no problem at all, I think there's too much discussion. So there are demands, there are explanations, are there? I don't want to, he says for the first time, so it was the first time in 26/06, some of the senior party officials, but I say what you needed in 26/06, you had an appointment for the 02/07 session to replace Zvizdić Denis and Stanko Primorac, 02/07. No, that's what we needed to do on the 27th, because it went to Brussels and it should have been said, that's where the reconstruction of the government started. It's a start. This reconstruction continues today, it means today. And it will likely continue in Canton of Sarajevo in a few days, probably also in Zenica, and Tuzla, probably if, even after the election of the cross-borders, surely in the Federation, and probably here in the state. I won't go in, I won't go in if Mr. Bećirović personally did his job well or not, I think it is good, but if there is agreement and opinion today, I think that job can work equally well for someone from the SDA or even better. The same Parliament has chosen, in a strange way, but the basis of the law is whether, and a member of the College of the Croatian People. I think, well, for myself, that I could do as well as Božo, and let's say Mato Franjičević is much better than me and Božo did.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11901	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11902	Well, I don't know, maybe we can start a procedure for some more post-election resolutions after the election and after 10 months. We must therefore be consistent when it comes to respecting the law and the Constitution and at all levels. We cannot for our colleagues in another Parliament, 200 meters from us, say, if they can behave as they will, and we, we must respect everything and not condemn it. We must not violate the law and the constitution, but we must condemn some phenomena in BiH. So, for the first time, if this is the first time, it must always be the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11903	Thank you. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11904	At the risk of, of course, expanding the debate a little bit to things that are not directly defined at the agenda point, unfortunately I have to replicate my colleagues, Jurišić. I don't know how you're not embarrassed by your colleague Jurišić to have you refer to procedure, legality, legitimacy and constitutionality? All your political representatives who were installed, not four months ago, but a year and four months ago, were installed in their positions by direct violation of the procedure prescribed by the Rules of Procedure of the relevant Houses of the Federation, in violation of the procedure prescribed by the BiH Election Law and in violation of the 31 procedures prescribed by the Constitution of the Federation of BiH. And it's so obvious and it's so presentable that it almost makes no sense to offer any argument for it. Just might be enough to point out that, in order for them to be installed and, consequently, to install all institutions, you mention public enterprises, etc., boards, new managements, etc., that it was necessary to change simply the mathematical rule that five is not one third of 17. It had to be entered into a change of mathematics to inaugurate pure violence. And that's why I wouldn't really want to spread the subject, because even like this, my colleague Lozančić talked about it more, and this is how we are, we're afraid of wasting time on topics that are not crucial to the people and citizens of BiH, but I had to answer, because you're simply not convincing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11905	Dear colleague Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11906	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would ask you to take care of the content of the discussions of those you have given your word to. Previously, before Mr Franjičević, Zvonko Jurišić discussed on a completely different topic, on the reconstruction of the federal government, and I don't think it's the subject of today's meeting, and you have limited us to discuss it for five minutes and I would ask you to take care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11907	Well, you've only spent 30 seconds and you've got three minutes free. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11908	I have to replicate my colleague Franjičević. He said here five isn't a third of 17. Well, no one said it was five-thirds of it. But there's five, and there's one third of 12, of 12. The moment Parliament was formed, there were then 12 of these representatives, or envoys in the House of Peoples. That's a fact. And five is one third of twelve and more than... And what gentlemen didn't, that they broke the Constitution and the law so they didn't elect their envoys to the House of the Federation, which they themselves refused to participate in the power, it was their problem and let it within themselves... The fact that procedures have been violated, that election law and the constitution have been violated, my colleague Franjičević surprised me because he is not even a constitutional judge, he is not a member of the Constitutional Court, and it seems professionally to me that he is not a lawyer. Therefore, they have institutions that have said where the Constitution has been broken and where the Constitution has not been broken. There you go. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11909	Thank you. Dear colleague Danijela Martinović, discussion. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11910	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So I think we've had enough of the debates so far in something where there's a big question mark. The procedure itself is questionable, as my party colleague Saša Magazinović said, when it comes to the shift of Denis Bećirović, and I personally see them as quite pale and inconclusive and the reasons of the SDA for the specified shift. We already know that the College, so we had, we have an official memo saying black on white that it's not a business-regulated mode, it's not the Constitution, it's not business. We have here assumed that the reasons for the appointment are equal and the reasons for the resolution. However, none of us here are professional in the above legal issue, so we should, first, have the opinion of the lawyers, if not the Constitutional Commission, then the commission that should have finished its work and to the end, so we should resolve the concerns in the Rules of Procedure itself. Now, also in the Rules of Procedure, it is not said which were the reasons, so for... So someone may not like it, they don't like how they dress today, so it looks like it can be one of the reasons. So when it is not precise, there are many opportunities left to indicate what might be the reason for the solution. That may have been one of the reasons why we kept insisting on asking if there was a new parliamentary majority. In the Federation, we started to reconstruct the government when we formed it, and we made it public. So, I think it would be correct on your part, too, if it exists, to say it openly, because if there is then there is no need for this whole circus, for this bullying of us and me and all of you here, we will withdraw. When it comes to the reasons of the SDA, as much as my esteemed colleague Jagodić has tried to explain those reasons, I still find them quite subjective, quite casual and what I ask of my students, which is precision, they are inaccurate. It is said here that the reasons for the shift, that you have launched our Denis initiative, we want your Denis, that Denis is responsible that BiH has entered a long-term crisis, that it has become an insufferable situation in the College, so I'm just reading the sentences of the reasoning, is nowhere stated when, why. At least I appreciate colleagues from the SDS who listed certain letters, certain reasons, which they consider legitimate reasons for replacing Denis. However, since the memos here are also mentioned, so the SDS that are in the SDS initiative itself, or letters that were found somewhere on the Internet, me, it's supposed to have used the memo, then when it comes to the shift, we'll expect you to have one principled attitude, I mean colleagues from the SDS, SNSD and the SDA, that if Denis abused, so the memorandum and his signature, then he did the same thing to another member from another House of Nations, meaning then chairman, the current chairman. And here there were other members of the Colleges who abused and had every freedom to interfere, say the draft resolution, constitutional changes in BiH, at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean, the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, I apologize to the Republic of Hungary and so on. So, if we're going to be unique arches, I'm asking you to apply these arches to the shift and the procedure to everything. And now I'd like to replicate to my colleagues Pandurević and my colleague Marković. So you mentioned a minimum of dignity. We'll have a minimum of dignity when you point out the real reasons for the shift. And Mrs. Marković, you also mention dissociation, so Denis just said what the experiences were and we're all aware of what was in '92. A year. I honestly also highly doubt that there would be a peaceful dissociation, so that's my personal position and my party's position. So that is our 33rd view of it as members of this Parliament and as all MPs, we have the right to our own opinion. Denis didn't give up on that one at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11911	Replica, dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11912	Thank you, Mr. President. Oh, here, I'm calling to try to cut some things short. I am so that there are rules and that elected officials behave within these rules. Not all rules can be defined and defined. And just giving that freedom is estimated what kind of person there is where there are no restrictions and how they relate to work. I have no idea here about the judiciary or the prosecution, and I don't want to be involved at all because I don't think a man is being tried, but it's talking about a man who's lost his trust, a man who votes, just goes away. I'm in his position, and I can confirm that from the RS, when I was asked not to be a minister, I resigned the same second and relieved the government and... Therefore, if we had discussed problems with the economy or something today and got involved this much, I would say Denis Bećirović if he didn't get the confidence to sit in a bench with all the rights here to participate in this. The man is not tried at all, but has lost confidence in the RS, he has lost confidence among Bosniak representatives. For these reasons, let's not make a big story or a big fuss about it, because we really don't judge the man he is, but I want to say again, it's just estimated when you give someone power and the possibility of whether they use it in a quality and correct way or in some way trying to abuse it. It's very good when you like those of another entity or other people. And you sitting up there still sort of represent all of us, that is, both entities, that is, BiH, and in that sense, you should act like one. And in that direction, I suggest we try and shorten the replicas a little bit, and we make this clear if all the discussions are exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11913	Replica, distinguished colleague Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11914	So, I agree with most of what Mr. Tomić said, indeed. And you should be, you should be aware if you need to leave, but you need to know the reasons that are appropriate for deviation. So you said yourself that we must, so there must be no abuse. However, nowhere in the Rules of Procedure has it been said what is an abuse of the powers of members of the College and how this... So, if we want to, therefore, spend the shift and anything else we must, especially in..., the highest authority in BiH, the most important institution, we must not allow there to be vague steps, unclear procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11915	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11916	Thank you, Chairman. A colleague, Tomić, said one thing that is not incorrect, but deserves a replica. He says – you should like those from another entity. It would be good if he told us what the SDA liked so much about colleagues from the RS, so they put together this initiative the way they did, so all the MPs from the RS and the U.S.A., just that it's a little clearer for us. And since I've already called, and I've got time to use it to replicate a few other things. kolegica Majkić and Marković said there will be a new parliamentary majority without the SDP. It is nothing controversial, it is nothing controversial, the SDP indeed insists that we see who the new parliamentary majority is and that we know and we treat ourselves accordingly. But whether there will be a new parliamentary majority, as will be, who will participate in it, we all know here that neither counterpart Majkić nor Marković are asked, but that someone else is asking. Thus, it is unnecessary for them to offer such confident views that they are not sure that they can stand behind them from tomorrow and that they will not raise their hand in any other way than what they are saying today. I'm not going to rephrase to my Kolegica Pandurević even though I was going to, in her style she had a confusing debate, so I'm going to be in danger of getting my replica to be confusing. And in the end, I'll just say about my colleague Jagodić, who pointed out as one of his alleged sins as fellow Members of Bećirović's non-formal head of parliamentary delegations. It is so unfounded that I can also confirm this to you colleagues from your club who have, on several occasions, made a very, very specific contribution to the formation of groups and delegations in the way it was in earlier years. And therefore, your colleagues have made a constructive contribution to this, but unfortunately this has not happened, and that Mr Bećirović is responsible for this, I can only call it your inadmissibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11917	Dear colleague Boško Tomić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11918	Very short. I don't see who likes who, and I don't act like one. I view my relationship with others in such a way as to be much sharper in my environment and with my colleagues, and I choose words when others are concerned. For these reasons, it would take a little more respect between us to be. And as for the question of Milica Marković, Mrs. Majkić and we here, leave it to us in the SNSD and RS and make sure that our vote in the General Committee of our political party is one of the crucial policy leaders of the SNSD and do not interfere with it and do not worry about it. But a lot more sensitivity towards each other so they don't irritate each other, because if our citizens see it, then when they see the political points, they get the more you attack each other. I'm not one of those, I'm not going to attack, but let's take some positive examples. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11919	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11920	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome everyone present. The reasons for launching the initiative, which Reverend Asim here has presented to us, are indeed flat-rate, better to say drawn and forced. It is interesting that the reason for launching the initiative is most of the points, if they were true and they were not, outdated, because Mr. Denis Bećirović was chairman exactly eight months ago. Here, Mr. Chairman, you're running out of mandate today, and as of tomorrow, it's a mandate for Mr. Ljubić, and it's very interesting that this is all happening today, and we're a good democratic country, and we accept that, right? So I'm saying, my colleague Danijela listed some things, so here I go again. Point 1, as far as the initiative is concerned, time has passed, it has become obsolete and it is obvious that it is only a rematch to SDP's policy and not to the work of our MP and member, is it so, deputy chairman Bećirović. That's what they said themselves. Point 2, the same mention is made of SDP policy, so this is not the office of Mr Bećirović to say "unloved," but rather a blow to the SDP, and we as SDP accept it because we are proud that what is written here is attributed to the SDP because this is SDP's policy. Under 3rd we have, it is mentioned, here is when Mr. Bećirović was chairman. So that goes back eight months ago, because what's being mentioned here is the publication and sending of the budget of the institutions for 2012, which we discussed in April, and gentlemen is now the retailer of the second half of September. He took this act and passed it on, is that right, to the Assembly as far as I understand it, he didn't put it together, it's the Council of Ministers' task. The 4th mentions a vehicle, it seems that only Mr Bećirović drives vehicles, no one else drives, and it is possible that, if a report is taken, an old vehicle could be seen as many miles and how safe it is for us the MPs we associate with in them and you members of the College so that it really is pointless to talk about it. Under 3.(?) a delay in Parliament's work is mentioned. It's a little funny, not to say it's sad, because it's known at what pace we were working, working from June 1st last year until February 20th this year, how many points the agenda went, how many sessions we had and how much we forced ourselves to do, even during our annual vacations, we had one session in August last year. And here I agree with Mr. Jagodić, which says we knew how to have seventy points of the agenda. We know how much we've only ratified the agreement. As effective as Parliament was, it is not Mr Bećirović's fault, but our Parliament's fault. As far as we've passed the law, as much as we've rejected the law, it's no longer Mr Bećirović's job, it's his job to put the agenda on the line, and when we count them, I think we'd be surprised how many there are. So congratulations. Furthermore, it is mentioned here, during the chairmanship of Mr Bećirović, that at point 6 is the first time this, uh, during the presidency, says we have not established the leadership of parliamentary delegations. Well, gentlemen, whether delegations are established or not, we can all answer 36, and this service of ours, but again I say it's been eight months from this, and now we've remembered that something isn't, some delegations haven't been established. When we talk about direct letters, the unnecessary letters referred to under point 8, at least Mr Asim should have quoted one MP, but I believe that this implies these letters, which were cited by the MPs of the SDS, where our Mr Bećirović, as well as our SDP party indeed, defends the position of anti-fascism and through this I write it in fact and protects and defends certain members of the Constitution as one of the members where it is mentioned that the state, BiH state. ... I'm counting on you to let me...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11921	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11922	Okay, well, I'll have a few things to say in the replica then.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11923	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11924	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So now proceed to replica and to business intervention. So, first of all, when it comes to the Rules of Procedure, I think for me, actually, I don't think there should be a dilemma about changing functionaries, changing functionaries appointed by this House. Unless prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, neither does the Constitution. When the Rules of Procedure speaks, it only prescribes what is written in the Constitution. So, the usual thing is to apply the same procedure as the appointment procedure and for me there is no dilemma, so in my opinion. But this isn't the Constitutional Commission's job, this is the work of some committees that we've formed, which we need to prepare this Rules of Procedure, but we're also going to put at the first next session of the Constitutional Commission and this issue. When we get something from the College, we do it anyway. Whoever looks at article 41 will see that thing just like this. And the Dom can always, under Articles 164 and 165, if he thinks something needs to be fixed, arrange it. So I think this House has the capacity, there's no one else, this House is changing the Constitution, so this House can sort out all these questions, so there's no dilemma about it. As a matter of fact, I am sorry that we are in this position, my position is, of course, in agreement with the position of the political party from which I come and whose representative I am here. And now I'm going to tell you what personally motivated me to sign this document and have this discussion and attitude. So, I think the SDA was provoked to this kind of behavior. If there were no previous SDP procedures, there would be no certainty of this SDA's behaviour and behaviour, I was already talking about it. For no reason, instead of talking within one block that was useful and good for this country, which they did, the backdrop of the bloc was actually these two parties, and the other political parties that were there, so that I don't leave anyone out, instead of discussing the problems we have breaking that block. And the bloc's collapse did not come to the SDA initiative, no one from the SDA wrote a letter to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, nor to the presidents of the cantonal parliaments, nor to the Federal Parliament to go into the crackdown of the bloc, but to be done by the SDP. And I think it's a big mistake for the SDP and the SDP policy, and whoever's in Denis Bećirović's place today would talk like this. I said immediately when it happened that the SDA should use all the legislation and the Constitution prescribed funds to protect its position and not have to take any action that is against the BiH Constitution and must not actually take it. Many expected that we would obstruct the House of People's session, of course we didn't, so we're not naive. We know how to protect the interests of the state and we know what that means. Don't worry, never when it comes to the SDA and the state that the SDA will make a move that could harm the BiH state. Don't worry about it, so we're taking great care of it. Do you think it's normal for us now not to observe that, for no reason or after the Constitutional Court's decision, Denis Zvizdić is being replaced? Do you think it's normal for us to now observe that, without any reason, the Secretary of Defense and the Minister of Security are being replaced, for no reason whatsoever? These people are not at all responsible for those reasons that are listed here for the shift, for the budget, although I don't think the budget is a reason, that the reasons are much wider and much deeper. That's what many other people think. Do you think it's normal for us not to watch the SDA crash overnight management and the entire parliamentary majority into four cantons, and for no reason, people don't eat onion, they don't smell at all. Just invited, says you're no longer in the congregations or in the cantons. It can't be, the SDA is a political party that has an attitude and it needs to be, to worry about its position. This is our answer. And for the record, this isn't isolated, this isn't an isolated situation. This is something that is combined in a series of procedures that have either followed or will follow. Wherever we can, we can cross the parliamentary majority, and in this country, everyone goes with everyone and don't make up accusations about who goes with who and who goes against who. We'll do it both in Canton of Sarajevo and in the Women's Dobe Canton and in Unsko-Sanski, Tuzlanski. It is not possible here in the Federation, because the president of the Federation, such a form of the Federation, is not possible to do anything because it takes a two-thirds majority to change the president of the Federation, which does not exist, and then tries to destabilise the Federal Government and here it has succeeded, so that one minister from the SDA is separated from the SDA. Don't you think we can't see that? And you're allowed all of that, SDP, and we're not allowed to do anything about this. Please don't let us be, that we understand each other completely. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11925	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirza Kušljugić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11926	I'm sorry this discussion wasn't the first, then we wouldn't waste any time. It is clear, therefore, that all the arguments, everything written about Denis Bećirović's shift, have nothing to do with what he wrote there. At least as far as the SDA is concerned. In the end, I didn't quote in my discussion the first attitude that shows that what we've heard now is a real cause. It's not fair to use a small door then. It was supposed to be big, it was supposed to come and say it completely, all the SDP ministers, we have a new majority, you're not there anymore – we're changing, not that 38 we're stating the arguments that we know ourselves..., not just for one of the chairmans but for many others. I'm glad that we're finally clear, although in the discussions that were, I have to admit the colleagues from the SDA were saying that, this is the answer, this is the counter-offensive, this is just ultimately summed up. And I'm glad that's the end of it, too, but don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't make, don't, don't make, don't make, don't make. This at least as far as the SDA is concerned, although as far as the RS parties are concerned, I think they're basically saying what their reasons are, both of them. What's wrong with me is that it's not until the end of the deal before, before this session, that we're not wasting our time, and I'm glad we finally heard it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11927	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11928	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm unusually glad I have to realize that I've changed my mind about Denis Bećirović. From the beginning, so now that he's left this gym, I thought it was something immature, it's not smart. But I don't know if it's a SDP or Denis strategy, but I think it's an extremely smart move, because it's clearly... it's shown that our discussions are absolutely non-transparent, unquality, that they don't lead to anything and that it's even worse trying to decapitate something that can't be decapitated. Here today in this room that he was instead of Denis Bećirović's Japanese robot and if he only had a SDP shirt or a T-shirt, it would have been the same story. Denis Bećirović received legitimacy and legality. Denis Bećirović, here we are not in the same party, but we fought in the Parliamentary Assembly, got more votes than all of us together, we can say it or we can't, but he got the largest number of votes in Tuzla Canton. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, whatever. And now that a colleague says one, who is no longer a partner with him, tells him I resent it, I resent it, I resent it. And I know four or five months ago that same colleague was saying that Denis was an extremely smart man and potential. How come he's not smart or potential anymore? How has that changed, (?) And nice. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11931	Replica, dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11932	Dear colleagues. You see, there have been a lot of topics transferred here today outside of what we were supposed to discuss. We told you when we formed the parliamentary majority that we were not in a coalition with anyone, that we formed power that we didn't want to be a remethyl factor. Today the whole problem is whether one man will be in one position or another. Guys, I have to go back to East Sarajevo today. I was thinking of running for second. A terrorist attack, where nine people were supposed to get hurt, an explosive device was inserted, the van burned down completely, you watched film footage, you watched everything. Guys, are we ever gonna talk about this, what's gonna happen at the next games on Sunday and Saturday? ... from the Federal Parliament here, [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11933	Agenda, Slavko. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11934	Don't do that. Well, that's all I'm saying, Mr. Chairman, to the colleagues not to transfer the situation from the federal parliament here. Thank you very much. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-19-0.u11935	It's a done story. I'm closing the argument. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I, I'll take a break. So you as club chairman have the right for half an hour. Since it wasn't lunch, is it enough for an hour? [[Common discussion]]
