ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2042	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers, the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you. I am opening the 23rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 14 delegates, 5 of them from the Bosniak order, 4 from the order of the Serb people. Delegate Stjepan Krešić is not able to attend today's session for justified reasons. For the 23rd session, I propose the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 22nd meeting of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Answer the delegates' questions and new delegates' questions; 3. Request by the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative fees under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01.02-02-1-40/12 of 24.09.2012; 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Communication Act (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-34/12 of 27.08.2012; 6. Proposal for a Law on Mine Action in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-39/12 of 11/09/2012; 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ministry and Other Authorities of BiH (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-41/12 of 11.10.2012; 8. Annual report on external trade authorisations issued for arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2011, material of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-25-1152/12 of 05.10.2012; 9. Appointment of a member of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications (Rang-list), material number: 01,02-29-1179/11 of 18.11.2011, and appointment of members of the Management Board of the Public Broadcasting Service from the Serbian and Croatian people (rank-list of BiH Regulatory Agency 2), material of the BiH Presidency, number: 01,02-50-1150/12 of 04.10.2012; 10. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2011 and conclusion of the BiH Presidency, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-983/12 of 26/07.2012; 11. Report on the financial audit of the 2011 Budget of the BiH Institution, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01-16-1-11-1138/12 of 28/09/2012; 12. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH, material of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, issue 01,02-34-1-728/12 of 06.11.2012; 13. Giving consent to the re-enactment of the Eighth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Federation, adopted in Geneva on 12.08.2008, and acts of the World Postal Union adopted in Geneva on 23.07.2008, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-1081/12 of 13.09.2012; 14. Giving consent to the re-enactment of the Convention for the Establishment of the European Communications Office (ECO), drawn up in The Hague on 23.06.1933, as amended and supplemented in Copenhagen 09.04.2002, the material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-1082/12 of 12.09.2012; 15. Giving consent to the re-enactment of the Agreement establishing a functional airspace block of Central Europe, the BiH Presidency material, issue: 01,02-05-2-1084/12 of 13/09/2012; 16. Giving consent to the re-enactment of the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank – Corridor 5c, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01,02-05-21199/12 of 24.10.2012; 17. Giving consent to the retification of the Amendment I to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank on 26 March 2007 in Sarajevo – Road Resuscitation in the Federation of BiH (FI 23.924), BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-1200/12 of 24.10.2012. That's the bottom line with the 17th agenda. Is anyone answering for a word? Any changes and additions? This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. If there's nothing I find out the agenda has been adopted. It shall not be voted upon in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the 22nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Since no one's answering for a word, I'm asking you to approach the vote. I find that, of the 14 present – for the 13th, against no one, is abstention 1 and that the minutes of the 22nd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. Moving to the second item of the agenda, 3 Ad. 2. Answers to Legislative Questions and New Legislative Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2045	Well, I've got something that can be called an answer to my question, but I could hardly say that's what Dom was looking for, and Dom's been looking for an analysis of the effects of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges. And we keep getting letters in which first the prosecution and then now the High Court is actually running away from it like it's about hot porridge. I don't know what these people are afraid of and why they don't write once – they were good foreign prosecutors and judges or they were bad, or there were good ones, there were bad ones, there was some grade finally someone in this country that did. I just don't understand anymore, I don't know what to do, not me, but I guess the House of Peoples too, because that's the conclusion of the House of Peoples. But my suggestion is, if we can't get anything more serious, let's go to the College and put all these answers all these years, because this is the second year that we've kind of been working out about this, so let's put one point in to open up a debate on the subject. Maybe something will define itself in the debate. If we can't get the right analysis, then put all those answers, let's make it a cause, and let the House of Nations speak at one point on that subject. It is evident that no one can write anything, it is evident that everyone is calling for OHR and it is evident that OHR will never say whether he is satisfied with the conduct of his decisions because he has appointed prosecutors and judges. They'll always say it is, but at least, that's where they'd like to write it for us, but we can't make them. But then, my proposal, so the College and the comment on this answer is – please put this all on once and that is the point of the agenda we will talk about.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2046	Okay, thank you very much. Next, Nermina Kapetanović answered. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2047	Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, media representatives. The same question was asked twice to the Council of Ministers, concerning the problem of the population of citizens who were employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia, who were in the period '91-'95. fired from work, twice I received the same answer from the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Ministry of Civil Affairs. On this occasion, I would like to say that I also requested a response from the foreign ministry, however, none of these, of these two times the Foreign Ministry was worthy of writing a single word. On this occasion, I thank the Ministry of Civil Affairs, which has both sent me the same answer, but I congratulate you and I thank you for all the activities that you have spent as Ministry, i.e. quite clearly and aware of the fact that you have done everything within the limits of your powers, but I express my dissatisfaction with the failure to respect the dignity of the representatives and by the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Well, on this occasion, I ask the representatives of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide me with an answer to the asked question, and a presentation of the diplomatic note which BiH, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, referred to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and concerning a Bosnian-Herzegovic request to address the problems of the BiH workers who worked in the Republic of Croatia, and please show the relevant diplomatic notes of the Republic of Croatia sent to the Bosnian-Herzegovian side... which in response to the parliamentary question is given a flat-rate assessment that the Croatian side, according to the information we have, is not interested in that. This is not a way of diplomatic communication, so I ask that it be delivered to me, so the diplomatic note sent to me and which I, which was returned by the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2048	Okay, thank you very much. The word was received by Hasan Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2049	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues. My question was, in fact, which I allegedly received the answer to, was – what the entity governments, i.e. the competent authorities in entities, are doing and how they monitor the implementation of the provisions of the Law on Public Enterprises, the conflict of interest in public enterprises. Unfortunately, I have to admit, the question is very clear to me, first from the RS, I got a response from the government and that answer is just actually a representation of the regulations that regulate that area, the answer to my asked question is no. Unfortunately, I received only a reply from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, not from the Government, so to whom I asked the question, although we know that the Ministry has the smallest number of public enterprises in which it is exercising its right to rule on behalf of the State, or the Government of the Federation. So, in fact, I didn't get an answer to my asked question and I'm asking that, to the subjects to whom I referred the question, to the answer to the question, not to review the rules that regulate those questions. From how I got it definitely to conclude that actually control over conflict of interest in public enterprises is not being implemented at all. And we know what part of the violation of the law on public enterprises is, in these public enterprises to this extent, to say the administrations in these public enterprises are abolishing the basic activities of companies, setting up their firms, carrying out this activity while working in this public enterprise and a number of other things. So, I'd like to say that I didn't actually get an answer to the asked question and I'd like to ask that answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2050	Okay, thank you very much. Five Mehmed Bradarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2051	Honorable presidency, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. My question was – how much did BiH institutions pay on behalf of their employees' education. And I got half the answer. In fact, of some 80 institutions the total answer was sent by 40 of them, so I believe that these remaining ones, in particular, have doubts that they did not do so for these reasons because they shared money with hand and hat, without established criteria, without fair intentions and so on. Of course, it is clear that public service employees have the right to support and help in the case of education and professional training only the question of whether this was done in a transparent and just way. And obviously from all these answers, that it wasn't, that it wasn't, because there's a person who's been given that money several times in a row. Some, after receiving the money, left the institutions even though they were not allowed to do so, or if they left, they had to pay that money back and did not, some gave themselves money, the heads of institutions. In some institutions, for example. received persons who did not meet the conditions such as translators, then then sent them to a course or course in English, or, say, drivers are accepted, and then schooling is paid to finish law school, and so on. and so on. There's a lot of such examples, and obviously they're not, they're not the smartest people in school, they're unfortunately staying at the employment bureaus. And my initiative goes on, so the Council of Ministers in a bunch of regulations, and they do, and I congratulate them there, to write implementing regulations and sanctions for those who do so. And very often we can say there's no money for students, there's no money for culture. Obviously there is because this way only for these half institutions is divided by more than 200,000 marks. So it's big money, and it's good to end up with one such phenomenon and prevent it. It's because there's no clean and honest intention. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2052	Okay, thank you very much. Krstan Simić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2053	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2054	Are those new questions?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2055	New, new questions. I have two questions, both addressed to the Ministry of Justice, from the area of protection of human rights in the procedures and spheres of the legislative authority. The first question is a matter of detention. It is clear to all of you that detention is a measure very often applied in the premises of the former Yugoslavia. All possible teams coming from abroad warn that they are easy to reach for the measure of detention because it is the last measure that can be applied unless there is any other measure to ensure the protection of the investigation process itself. 6 However, detention is often something that is misused for various purposes and is therefore one of the serious forms of pressure on the independence of the judiciary. The decisions from Strasbourg are very clear and say – at the most needed moment it can only be applied. ... stated that this applies to BiH too, and I ask that data be delivered to me – How long is the detention period not covered by the judicial rulings, and how much is the amount of damages and costs paid to these persons in the BiH judiciary system? And if there is a possibility that such information can be provided through the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for both entities. The second question is from the legislative sphere but still concerns the work of the Justice Ministry. Everyone knows there's an amnesty institute, there's no state in the world that doesn't have the Amnesty Act, which at some point doesn't reach for amnesty. This is what we have in entities, both entities have, on several occasions, passed laws on amnesty, but BiH as a state never since its existence, and this can refer to the period when it was passed, to adopt laws on state justice, and so I ask – Is there a resorient ministry intended, by analogous to all the countries of the world, to the parliamentary procedure, to put forward a draft on amnesty and thus to open one of the very, very, very often applied visions and support for resociation and other issues related to these procedures? Thank you. I'm looking for both written answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2056	Okay, thank you very much. Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2057	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with Articles 144 and 145. I am giving the Rules of Procedure to the BiH Council of Ministers a request for the delivery of the following data, related to the presentation of the structure of management personnel in the three permanent bodies of the Council of Ministers of BiH, in the General Secretariat, the Office for Law and the Directorate for European Integration. The presentation should include: 1st number of systematicised, or filled positions; 2nd qualification structure and total number of years of internships; 3rd date of appointment and legal basis for appointments; 4. reflect the national structure. In my explanation, I would like to say that the work of the BiH Council of Ministers' permanent bodies is less visible compared to the work of the ministries. However, the responsibilities and responsibilities of permanent bodies are of particular importance particularly in the context of the implementation of reforms and the European integration process. How the management staff is a key factor in the realization of these tasks will answer the asked question will give insight into the state and ability to fulfil the commitments undertaken. My second question to the Council of Ministers is about the remaining requirements for resolving the fate of BiH military dwellings and the lawsuit in the administrative dispute before the Court of BiH which has not been resolved. Neither the parties are in the process of entering into the process of buying these apartments, so I would like to refer the following questions to the BiH Council of Ministers: 7 1. Does the BiH Council of Ministers General Secretariat monitor the implementation of the BiH Council's conclusions? 2. When will a new Commission be formed for property demands of displaced persons and refugees to continue BiH's obligations and to implement Annex VII of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH? 3. Within four years of the Commission's failure to work, why has the Commission's archive not been returned to the BiH Archives, since it is located in the rented space, I ask who is responsible, or who has been obliged to return the items of the Committee to the BiH Archives and who is paying for the lease of this space? The Commission for Property Requirements for displaced persons and refugees ceased working on 01.01.2009 and since then, despite the BiH Council of Ministers' conclusion that the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Ministry of Justice have formed a new commission that will address the party's remaining demands, so far nothing has been done. The damage done to the parties in the procedure before the Commission for the property claims of displaced persons and refugees is immeasurable and the question arises – Do we already have lawsuits before the European Court of Human Rights? According to information I have such a lawsuit is already in front of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, so please answer the asked question. And my third question. In accordance with Articles 144 and 145. The Rules of Procedure of the People's House, and on the recommendation of the Committee for the Rights of the UN-led Child, I would like to refer the following questions to the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of BiH: 1. When will BiH pass a comprehensive law on the rights of a child at a state level that will fully embody the principles and provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child and its cultural protocols, whose BiH is a signator and which will provide clear guidelines for their consistent application in the entire territory of the BiH state? 2. When will the mandate of the Council for Children of BiH continue, which has not been renewed since 2007? Reason: The recently held Round Table on the subject – Recommendations of the Committee on the Rights of the UN-led Child of BiH, the question of how to continue, held on 20.11.2012 in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building in Sarajevo, attended by only one MP from both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, pointed out the concern of the UN Children's Rights Committee, as it continues to fail to implement comprehensive legislation on children's rights at the state level, thus achieving the full and direct effect of the Convention in state legislation. The Committee further notes in its recommendations that due to the complexity of the political and administrative organisation of the state, in terms of the existence of two entities, 10 cantons and Brcko District, the lack of such legislation results in inconsistencies in the implementation of the rights of the child throughout its territory, where children in similar situations are subject to variations in fulfilling their rights depending on the areas in which they are situated. The Committee also regrets that, despite a previous recommendation to strengthen... for the children of BiH, the lack of agreement on the election of members of the Council has not yet been chosen, which, in the opinion of the UN Committee, is a significant obstacle to the development, coordination and implementation of... state policies for the implementation of the Convention. I ask a written answer to the questions asked, especially the third question, because as the only member of the Bosnian Herzegovic delegation in the Committee for, in the Sub-Committee for the Protection of Human Rights and the Rights of the Child of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg, I am not in a position to give an adequate 8 answer to the questions which unfortunately are asked in Strasbourg very often about questions about the rights of the child in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2058	Okay, thank you very much. Dragutin Rodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2059	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. My question was addressed to the Council of Ministers, and the biggest drop in customs revenue was recorded in 2009 when customs duties were completely abolished to over 90% of products. Customs revenue from 2007 to 2011 and the first 10 months are as follows: 2007 – 655 million; 2008. - 650 million; 2009. – 345 million; 2010 - 302 million; 2011. – 281 million and 2012 for the first 10 months – 188 million. It is clear that this is the result of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and we know that the basis of this agreement is a trade agreement. And it's our general commitment to respect the Agreement and to behave in a market way. However, since 2013, imports of a new product group without customs duties have been envisaged. Their market price will not be lower, making BiH a double loss. In some ways, this question is compensated by excise duties. My question is whether this is enough compensation and if it is not possible to compensate the missing funds for certain types of income, since any imbalance in the budget will negatively affect the overall situation in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2060	Okay, thank you very much. We still have Mehmed Bradarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2061	I have one question, and I'm looking for a written answer. And its purpose is the rational and domestic spending of budget funds. And you'll see when we get the answer, there'll be everything and everything. The question is, on the basis of the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, the Opinions of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH based on the conclusions of the Council of Ministers and the Decision on framework criteria for the award of monetary rewards employed in BiH institutions, ministers and directors of agencies and institutions, which are not exempted from the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institutions, could be passed by a lawyer on the criteria for the award of monetary rewards for the achievement of the results in the work of BiH institutions and the level of monetary compensation, and the procedure for the achievement of the monetary reward. I ask all of the above institutions to answer me how many employees have achieved this right since 2008 to this day? The total amount of cash prizes per employee for that period, acts that can contain the results of the work and the process of achieving a cash reward for each employee and the solutions by the leaders of the BiH institutions on the basis of which this right has been achieved for each employee. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2062	Thank you very much. There are no more applications for a delegate.../shortly interrupted recording/... recapitalizing this item of the agenda when it comes to answering delegate questions. I see Mr Ivanić has suggested putting this issue on the agenda of the House of Peoples. Here, we'll wait a little longer for the OHR's answer, we'll urinate and then we'll decide to put this issue on the agenda anyway. When it comes to other delegates, everyone said that they were unhappy with the answer, that the answers were incomplete, that they had no answers to everything they were asked for or were simply avoided perhaps for some reason. Therefore, I would ask all the delegates here, and we have a stenogram, once again on these issues, to refer the question and ask that complete answers be given in terms of what kind of questions are asked, that is, today as complemented. I think we can agree on that. We're going to the third item of the agenda now, Ad. 3. Request by the Council of Ministers of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative fees under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples You have received a request from the Council of Ministers for the examination of the Amendments and Completion Act on Administrative Taxes under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. At its 36th session, held on 22.11.2012, the House of Representatives accepted an application for the examination of the Amendment Law and the addition of the Law on Administrative Taxes under an urgent procedure and adopted the Law. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Nermina Kapetanović came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2064	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am aware of the fact that since 03.10.2011 customs registration has been abolished, which was 1% of the customs base by law and knowing that in 2010 the revenue in Budget of this item was 42 million, in 2011 about 36.9 million and that in 2012 there is no maltene income. I want to say that I know that these changes want to make up for this missing income and I understand the proposal's intention. However, I ask if it is not on the Fiscal Council, and I allow myself to be wrong, it is said that the deadline for the adoption of the Budget is 05.12 this year. This means that the budget should at least be considered at the end of October or early November, first at the House of Representatives and then at the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Since the Council of Ministers has brought the Parliamentary Assembly into this situation to be somewhat late, I don't think the law should be considered by an emergency procedure for a simple reason if Budget is late, too. There is order, order and hodogram in the course of the activity and this is how we propose to consider these amendments to the law by emergency procedure is not good. 10 Instead of the Council of Ministers working to create reliefs and creating policies and conditions for improving exports, it also increases export fees, and rather than making sense that one expert analysis has been carried out, and that a public debate has been conducted with representatives of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and, more importantly, with the Bosnian-Herzegovician businessmen of exporters, so that after that debate, which would certainly show what these changes are objectively representing the fallen Bosnian-Hungarian economy and whether it will further make exports and competitiveness to the market of other countries more difficult for them, especially since 01 July 2013, when Croatia becomes an EU member, the Council of Ministers without any analysis and care about Bosnian-Herzegic businesses, and ultimately on Bosnian citizens, hastening representatives and not leaving them with the possibility of amending the possibility of taking part of public action with regard to the right of law, to the need to take action with regard to the law of law, without any kind of law. Therefore, the delegates of the Party of Democratic Action will not support an emergency procedure under Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2065	Okay, thank you very much. Since no one is answering the question, we are voting on a procedure, so whether or not we will consider the bill as an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please initiate the voting mechanism. I find that, of the 14 present – for it was 10, against four, abstentioned none. There is a general majority, there is an entity majority and a request to consider the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Administrative Taxes under an emergency procedure has been adopted. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Who's answering for a word? Since no one's answering our questions, we're voting on the bill. Please initiate the voting mechanism. I find that, of the 14 present, it was 10.3 against, abstention 1. There is a general and entity majority and the law has been passed, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Taxes has been adopted. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters (Second Reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission adopted the draft law with two amendments and proposed that it be adopted to the House. Delegate Dragutin Rodić, based on Article 112 of the Article (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations, submitted a new amendment to the House. 11 At its 36th session, held on 22.11.2012, the House of Representatives adopted the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters with six amendments. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, Krstan Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2067	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2068	There's no need. I now give my word to the Proposer of the Law if he is present. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2070	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In my discussion, I will say that I believe that the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters is a significant contribution to improving existing legal solutions... by a certain and good intention of the promoter in terms of creating conditions for as simple, more efficient and faster a procedure for providing international legal assistance. Respecting the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which has been incorporated into the BiH Constitution, the law is largely in line with other international agreements and acts that are multilateral. Aware of the fact that the necessary activities provided for by the Roadmap for the liberalisation of the visa regime for BiH citizens were envisaged and necessary to pass such a law, and also knowing that the amendments and additions made to this Act in a significant part of the harmonisation and that the Bosnian-Herzegovina proposal for a legal solution with international provisions that BiH has ratified, I welcome the adoption of this law in particular in terms of the integration of Bosnia and Herzegovina legislation into European processes and harmonisation with European legal regulations, and all in order to improve state co-operation in the field of crime control. Keeping in mind that BiH will access the regime for the conclusion of bilateral agreements ratified by Parliament, and related to the extradition of citizens based on reciprocity for corruption, and knowing that the respected minister, Mr Bariša Čolak, has already concluded a number of contracts with countries of that kind with the neighbourhood, so with some of the neighbouring countries, I believe that the law should be adopted and that any necessary corrections and technical small insufficiency should be united and subsequently incorporated into the law. I congratulate the representatives of the Ministry and Mr. Čolak personally and suggest that today be supported by this Law. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2071	Okay, thank you very much. Since no one is reporting for a vote anymore, we are voting on the amendment of delegate Dragutin Rodić. Please initiate the voting mechanism. I find that out of the 14 present – for any 8, against the 6, no one was abstentioned. The general majority exists, there is no entity majority. /Acquaintment/ We will leave this harmonisation process until the next session when we declare the law, with another perhaps note that the next session of the House of Nations is scheduled for Thursday at 14:00, given that we have a Budget that must be adopted by a certain deadline due to the IMF Agreement, so you have that in mind. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2075	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2076	There's no need. Do I give my word to the Proposer of the Law? _________(?) 13 [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Here comes Mr. Halid Genjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2078	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the existing Communication Act did indeed have a constructive error embedded in Article 39 in such a way that a member in the position (2) was described to the Board of the Agency consisting of 7 members, so it was envisaged that this was appointed to the Council of the Agency on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, so the Council of Ministers formed a proposal and submitted the proposal to the Parliamentary Assembly. So if the Parliamentary Assembly accepts or rejects the proposed candidates within 30 days, we have different situations, if it accepts, if it does not accept the Council of Ministers, it proposes a second person and submits this proposal to the Parliamentary Assembly. And it was not envisaged what would happen if the Council of Ministers did not propose another candidate or if the Parliamentary Assembly rejected the other candidate. So it wasn't predicted what was happening then. And that allowed that rather sophisticated volleyball to last quite long and unlimited. And now it's proposed to amend this member. For the most part, this Act on Amendments and Supplements applies to the amendment of this Article which has two elements in substance. One element is the conditions to be met by the members of the agency, which is quite good, and the other element is this procedure which has tried, as at least the proponent says in the explanation, to be resolved in a happier way. Is that happier, let's see. Ad hoc commission is now being formed at the proposal of the Parliamentary Assembly. So this Ad hoc commission sets out the list of 14 most successful candidates and delivers it to the Council of Ministers. So the Council of Ministers submits a proposal to the Parliamentary Assembly within 30 days, from the receipt of the list. So the Parliamentary Assembly appoints members of the Agency's Council within 30 days. So if the Parliamentary Assembly refuses to appoint one or more candidates, it shall inform the Council of Ministers of the reasons for not being appointed, then the Council of Ministers should submit a new proposal within 30 days. So if the Council of Ministers does not act at the request of attitude (7) or a new proposal by the Council of Ministers is not accepted, the BiH Parliamentary Assembly shall immediately initiate the procedure in order to call a new public competition. What does this mean? New players and new stages were introduced in this game. And finally? It has finally been introduced that the Parliamentary Assembly will open a new competition, and it is finally not said what will happen if this whole dance is restored after a new competition. Therefore, in order for the procedure to be clarified, specified, led to its conclusion, it was obviously not successful, except, in my opinion, that one body was appointed the Parliamentary Assembly, so the proposal of that body is being considered by the Council, so it sets out the proposal, etc., etc. I don't think it's in the law, in which it was justified, it didn't work. Secondly, it seems to me, an even bigger problem that appeared with this bill is, earlier, Article 39 in the position (2) spoke of the Council of Agency... appointment generally, in general, as well as any law on all opportunities and for all mandates. This amendment of Article 39 and Article (2) which regulates the appointment of the Agency's Council, since the proposing's intention seemed to be that only now, and as soon as possible, and only in this mandate, a single error occurred the following way. It is spoken in the position (4) of that new member,... 39th, that the Parliamentary Assembly, within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this Act, upon a proposal from the Council of Ministers, set up an Ad hoc commission. So later, in all respects, it is called upon to this term of office (4), so 15 days after the adoption of the Law. 14 And so this law now, if this amendment were to be adopted, speaks of the appointment of the Council of the Agency only 15 days after the adoption of the Law. And what, after the end of the term of office of the so-called Council, is nowhere to be found. It could be understood that the same thing is done, but it would have to work hard to understand it that way. Therefore, by this amendment, if adopted this way, the general law on telecommunications and the general procedure for the appointment of the Council of the Agency would be converted into a law, within 15 days of its establishment and the Council of the Agency, only in that appointment 15 days after the adoption of the Law. And later on, it doesn't seem like the proposings were very interested. For these reasons, I think that everything that appears in the problem of the appointment of the Council of Ministers and what has been going on for a long time has really to be solved. But this way, we haven't solved it, and I think we've created an even bigger problem. And that's why we have two options - or to try to fix this bill with repairs or some new proposal. In any case, I think it is necessary for this Law to be very thorough and rationally intervened in order to solve this problem that exists and not create any new problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2079	Okay, thank you very much. Nermina Kapetanović came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2080	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Aware of the fact that the matter being edited by the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on Communications of BiH is not prescribed and legally binding EU acts. I highly appreciate the opinion of the Directorate of European Integration, which warns, both the Council of Ministers and parliamentarians and says, points to international and European standards that determine the importance of the independence of the work and the action of regulatory bodies that should be ensured through an open democratic and transparent process in the appointment of management staff. In different countries, they say different systems of appointment of Romanian regulatory authorities are applied. However, they call on us to take care of international and European standards that prescribe that this process must be protected from political or economic interests. The appointment process should not be entirely under the control of the ruling parties, given that this could lead to the appointment of the sole reasons for political reasons and not to the achievement of the public interest. Conscious of the facts, as delegates in the Parliamentary Collatency of the Council of Europe, that key recommendations in this regard should represent Council of Europe's recommendation number 23, which clearly and explicitly states on the independence and functions of regulatory bodies for the broadcasting sector and its accompanying Memorandum, as well as the Declaration of the Committee of Ministers on Independence and Functions of Regulatory Authorities for the broadcasting sectors, and knowing that recommendations and declarations are not legally binding, but taking into account the fact that the Council of Ministers, as well as us Parliamentarians, are full of the mouth of our good intentions, the harmonisation of our legislation with positive EU legislation, is very important, from the point of view of their interpretation, the meaning of Article 10. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which implies freedom of expression. All EU documents stress that regulatory bodies must be protected from all forms of political and economic interference, with the basic principle of the fact that 15 independent regulatory agencies are linked to each other both to the independence of broadcasters and to the media at all. The European Integration Directorate also pointed to a report on BiH's 2012 progress, which, in a very important section called the political criteria, in terms of human rights and protection of minorities, called Civil and Political Rights, states that it is a worrying attempt for the EU to endanger the independence of RACs and appointments, which affects public broadcasters. In addition to these policy criteria in the section – European standards, in terms of sectoral policies, i.e. information society and media, it is also said that serious concern remains a lack of coordination of relevant personnel resources, and in particular permanent threats – functional and financial independence of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency. It is quite clear that, after years of stagnation in the Council of Ministers, concerning the resolution of the status of the Regulatory Agency for Communications and the Management Board of the RAC Council, it is now in a hurry to appoint the Board of Regulators and Directors. But I also want to say that it is important that it is not a good thing that the law stipulates that the Council of Ministers has a predominant role, because it is a direct interference, or interference, or rather an impact on the independence of this regulator, which should be independent of the political influences of the Council of Ministers, and it is certain that it will not be. Intruding in the essence of the independence of the regulators in the first article means political influence on the media, control of the media, bringing down one of the three fundamental pillars of the democratic society, which is media independence. And for this reason, delegates from the SDA will not support the principles of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2081	Thank you very much. The word came from Ognjen Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2082	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleague Čović, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers. In legal philosophy for several thousand years, there has been a debate over whether anyone who violates the law has the right to call for his respect when it is in his interest. So also here, since we are still a legal state, it is perfectly logical that both those social and political forces that have made it impossible for this Parliament to do so in relation to the Regulatory Agency for Communications in a legal and constitutional sense, do nothing unusual, so neither acceptable when they call for arguments concerning freedom, for freedom of the media, for human rights, for democracy, explaining their position. But that doesn't bother us that this political story is completely clear and that we know what this is all about. And the way it is done today is not any kind of legal or political violence, but a measure that is necessary for things in BiH to be as complex as its Constitution says, as its citizens and the overall remaining structure expect. Given that, even during this discussion, there are no concrete requirements for changing the text itself, and that there is obviously a majority behind the proposed solutions, I believe that this conclusion can be put into work, as it was done in the House of Representatives before us, i.e. that we are acting in accordance with Article 100(5), which reads – if it considers that it is a small degree of complexity law, the House may decide to consider the draft law in the 16 second reading without considering it in the competent commission, i.e. to move immediately to phase two. So before we move on to a statement, we also decide that we are currently solving this Law in a second reading and that, by the reputation of the House of Representatives, we have been counting on all the arguments we have already heard, not only at today's session, but over the past 4-5 years, to resolve this issue in favour of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2083	Okay, thank you very much. Borjana Krišto answered her word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2084	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, vice-president, distinguished colleagues and fellow envoys, the respected chairman of the Council of Ministers with ministers, deputies, distinguished guests, respected media, I welcome you all. When it comes to amending and supplementing the Communication Act, I would like to say that it is really necessary and amending and supplementing because it is really a law that has a flaw, which is in fact unsettled and where there are actually individual committees of this House to go into the procedure of amending and supplementing this Act for reasons, here, which are in some way mentioned here and here, which is that this Law did not really regulate the conduct in the event that the Council of Ministers of BiH did not submit a new proposal to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in case it meant not accepting the first proposal, and neither did it regulate proceedings in the event that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH did not accept either the second proposal of the BiH Council of Ministers. What I would like to say here is that in some ways I do not understand the debates of colleagues who spoke earlier, but I think it is necessary to amend and supplement this law. And is it necessary in such a way as the Ministry feels, that it is sufficient to amend Article 39(2), I think that we should let the Law into the procedure and the Club of Croatian Envoys will support this Law, and, of course, although the procedure has been shortened, we will try to in the second reading to amend some of the things that would in some way be in favor of clearer, more precise norms, and the removal of all these ambiguities and these shortcomings that the Law has at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2085	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Bradarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2086	I realized the true intentions of this Law, in fact its changes and additions, and it was actually going to intervene to unblock this whole stasis. That's the basic objective of this law. In fact, the members of the RAC Council and the director have expired in 2009, and they are practically illegals here. All decisions they make and adopt do not commit to anyone, and this has proved to be true many times. So because we haven't appointed the RAC Council in a legitimate way, we had 17 very many problems. So this is how the law is broken, as is the current state, and these interventions would unblock it. From what I understand, this is just an intervention. The Communication Act will be very soon in the process and it will be no problem for these changes to be included in this new future law. Of course, the Council of Ministers has been wrong about this so far because this job did not finish, even more and more of their own instructions, which they wrote, wanted to change, or the conditions of the competition wanted to change when the competition was already over. And that's why, and it actually cares and it's justified, completely justified to go through with these changes. It's not even okay, so no one can say that this is the only way to introduce political action. Well, so far there's been political action within the RAC. Tell me any institution, a more significant institution where people are without being dependent on politics. Each one of them has an influence, especially in the RAC Council because people chose themselves. It's the greatest absurd that people choose themselves. And they weren't very often independent. Remember, I asked myself one question, a matter of compensation they receive, almost every employee there receives enormous fees. So that's how they protect their independence. So I'm going to support, and here's this variant to finish the first reading today, and here we're going to have a second reading very quickly, so that this stalemate can be completely removed.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2087	Okay. Here's the word for it, delegate Staša Košarac. I hope he doesn't catch cold in his shirt.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2088	Thank you for your concern, Chairman, but not too much. Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, it should be pointed out that this Law was imposed by a high representative. We have not talked about this today, and today we have not said that there is more debate in the BiH Parliament that this law is necessary to amend and supplement. I must remind you that at this session of the House of Peoples, we have repeatedly expressed ourselves negatively about what is the situation at the Regulatory Agency for Communications, that we have concluded that it is necessary to enter the procedure of change and complete and asked the Council of Ministers to do so. We have today in the procedure in Parliament this Law and we have this kind of activity in the House of Representatives where the conclusion of the House of Representatives and the first and second reading was done at one session. Of course, when we pass such a law again, there will be a kind of need, or such changes and additions to the Law, there will be a need for some further amendments and additions to the Law, because practice will surely confirm that. I am inclined to consider accepting Mr Tadić's conclusion that at today's session we will have a debate both in the first and second readings and to end the story, at least the one relating to the selection of the RAC organs, as we are witnessing that we have an illegal RAC Council and, of course, the position of directors in that agency. And I will remind you that in the end and the agreement of the six is in this context that it is also necessary to enter human resources into the Regulatory Agency for Communications itself. 18 I wouldn't talk about independence, and I don't want to comment on all this. I will just remind you that there is a political willingness from Serbia to resolve this issue through amendments and amendments to the law and, of course, to open up other amendments and additions to this law to further efforts and sessions of Parliament. Because I just want to remind you that we are not satisfied with what the Communications Regulatory Agency is doing. I'll remind you of the 60-minute show on Federal TV, I'll remind you of TV1 and what was happening on TV1 and we didn't see that there was a reaction from the Regulatory Agency for Communications. Obviously, let's not stare too much at this country, but try to bring about, through amendments and additions to the laws, exactly those agencies that are in our mandate to be in the role of the interests of all parts of BiH, that is, BiH itself and all BiH citizens. Therefore, we will plead on Mr Tadić's proposal to discuss both in the first and second readings of this Law at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2089	Okay, thank you very much. Since no one's answering for...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2090	Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2091	Yeah, well, he's got a line, Mr. Genjac, I didn't see an apology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2092	I thank the chairman. Namely, there were several allegations in these discussions, so I need to react. So we're on first reading. We are talking about the principles of the Law, and in my discussion, I have pointed to the obvious shortcomings of the Law and the need to intervene to correct it. And it was in the discussion as if there were no objections to the law of the concrete and so on. Very specific remarks, very obvious shortcomings. I totally agree that we have problems in the RAC, that we have problems with the Agency's Council, that we have problems that we all know. I fully agree that there is a need for the law, to intervene in the law, but in a way that is really an intervention that will make this procedure effective and effective. I don't think this law guarantees anything, especially this situation where it's about appointing 15 days after the law enters into force. And on the other appointments, I think we should make that clear, sort it out. So, I think it would be far more meaningful, so I doubt the six-point deal also implies the adoption of laws that have obvious shortcomings. I understand a six-man deal to solve problems, but that doesn't mean it's likely to be passed laws that have obvious shortcomings. Probably doesn't mean that. So, we need to work this out, I agree, but I don't think at all that a shortened procedure or 15-10 days of the amendment phase is going to make this any more difficult and it won't complicate anything. On the contrary, I think it would be very useful for these intentions as well. Thank you. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2093	Okay, thank you very much. We have Mrs. Krišto now. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2094	Thank you very much. The Honorable Chairman, deputy. I answered thinking that the debate was exhausted and given the views I wanted to ask on behalf of the Croatian Envoys Club for a five-minute break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2095	Maybe we should just give Krstan Simić another word, and then we can take a break. Here's the Krstan. Maybe you'll want a break, too, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2096	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will not speak directly of the Law, but I will speak of this Law, all the laws and certain attitudes that often appear. Mr. Bradarić says - an independent agency and we are aware that it was not independent. The question of the independence of people who conduct certain jobs, where it is primarily to be professional and independent, is one big issue that this society will have to face and open. Why aren't these people there independent? The answer is clear because they require politics. Today, I don't know her at RAK one, in another institution third, and it's always the background that we're the ones who are looking to get there, under the pretext, our people who will often put independence under their feet. This may be a good opportunity to start thinking about it when we choose, when we vote, when we propose the staff, that these people really become independent, to do their job in the name of the profession, in the name of well-being, not that we expect what happens where. Given this blockade, given the damage we have suffered and the aspect of the fact that we do not have a legal solution for three years to complete the selection of people who have expired their mandate, who have been illegally doing the job for three years, I believe that this is a good opportunity for this, under the circumstances, to end the agony, to end this job, and always to be available to us to all the laws, including this, to improve and to create better conditions to provide what by the nature of things should be - independence. It depends most on us whether we are going to have independence there, whether we are going to look there for our national, group and any other interests, it is a matter of policy relations. And I'm afraid there's a lot of everybody here, with no exceptions, we feel the same way, doing the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2097	Thank you very much. I'm taking a five-minute break. 20 [[PAUZA]] I ask the delegates to take their seats. We're moving on with the session. Please, does the club president want to take a word or should we continue?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2099	I wanted a consultation within the club about the voting procedure. And as far as the club is concerned, we're ready to vote on an emergency procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2100	Thank you very much. First we vote on the bill in the first reading. Please, since no one's here anymore, he hasn't answered his word, to allow a vote. First we go in the first reading, then there's a vote on the proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2101	Repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2102	Let's do it again, maybe. The vote just means the law in the first reading. I find that out of 14 delegates – 10 were for, 3 versus, 1 abstention, there are both general and entity majority. We are now voting on the proposal for Mr Tadić's conclusion to hold a debate and vote on this law in the second reading, in accordance with Article 100. Rules of Procedure. Please join the vote. Of the 14 present – for it was 10.4 against, abstentioned none. There's a general, there's an entity majority. So the conclusion is to approach the debate and voting in the second reading, according to this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? Since no one is answering the word, we approach the second reading on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act. Please initiate the voting procedure. I find that out of the 14 present – for it was 11, they were against three, and no one was abstentioned. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act has been adopted in the second reading. Thank you very much. 21 We move to the sixth item of the agenda, that's it, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Mine Action in Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. In accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You've been given the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives is on 36. The session, held on 22.11.2012, adopted the proposal for a law on mine action in BiH in the first reading. I give the word to Borjana Krišto
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2104	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2105	Thank you. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if there's any need? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Here's the word, Mr. Ivanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2107	Here, I'll vote against the law. The argument I received, I call on the interior minister who said that the formation, that there is no constitutional basis for this law and that it can be considered as a matter of transfer of competence from entity to BiH level. And starting with that proposal, as loyal citizens of the RS, I will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2108	Okay, thank you very much. Nermina Kapetanović answered her word.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2109	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 22 In 2008 the Council of Ministers adopted the Anti-mining Action Strategy, and within the framework of the planned activities, committed itself to drawing up the Action Plan, which was established under the Strategy, and the adoption of the Anti-minal Action Act. It is certain that the legislator has a good intention of establishing as well as possible better organisational structures and deminings at all levels of BiH. Instead of the current demining commission and BHMAC, the holder of key responsibilities and, of course, responsibilities, will now be the Ministry of Civil Affairs. In order to avoid any speculation that existed about the amount of money collected from foreign donors and doubts about the spending of these funds, funding from the BiH institutions has been overlooked, which is certainly good. So far, only BHMAC employees have been financed from the Budget and demining is mostly financed from foreign donations. Knowing that under the conditions of the donor countries, it was clearly stated that BiH must establish a similar fund, and the intention, therefore, is good. Reading more carefully, so this bill I think the members of 66th and 69th are a little confusing and not quite understandable. I think they should be clarified in the final form of the proposal, because it is said that employees of Article 66 who treat the status of employees and assets of BHMAC, employees of the Mine Removal Centre in BiH, as equipment for work and other means, remain employed, equipment for work and other funds of the Agency on the day of entry into force of this Act. It's missing something, it's unsaid, as is Article 69. I think it should be fixed and corrected, because it cannot be written in one member of the law that the Director of MAC continues to be the director until the end of his term and it is known that he does not have a mandate, so it would be good to fix it, so in the second reading. In this area it is necessary to introduce a regular and transparent display of all activities and spending resources, and possibly if it is not already done to bring it into line with the positive practices of European legislation. I welcome, therefore, the work and efforts of the Ministry of Civil Affairs and I propose to my colleagues that we adopt the law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2110	Mr. Staša Košarac came to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2111	First of all, I think we're witnessing that we have a lot of problems in this area in this country. And I think that in this area there are, I would say shared opinions on how to organise this area and which of the agencies or ministries should have, I would say, operational competences. I personally believe that this Law on Anti-miny Action, at the level of the Council of Ministers of BiH, has strongly sent a message that through this Law it wants to regulate this area. It should also be said that we also lost to international credibility because of some of our internal weaknesses, I would say the half-privatization relations of the people who led this process over the past ten years. And what is very important is that through the implementation of this Law, if the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH adopts it, we will resolve this issue in this country. We have, we have strong witnesses I would also say media pressures on something that doesn't work in BHMAC, and, of course, based on the delegate issue that has been raised by the SIPAs, we have confirmed that kind of attitude. But we can't bring that into the context of equality with these laws. This law is necessary. 23 The incompetence of the entity I am not sure will be compromised, given that there are dilemmas in the Civil Protection Sector for mine action and I think Mr Ivanić's concern is unnecessary. I don't think sarcasm is an ally either, but of course he can have an opinion, and of course he should point out a fact where I wouldn't want to be a lawyer or anyone else here, but I have to say that responsible people are sitting in the Ministry of Civil Affairs, that responsible people, first of all Minister Nović has a very well-developed communication with the institutions of the RS and that certainly neither Minister Nović nor any of us here would do anything to harm the RS. So I think that in this first reading, we understand the principles, we understand the ministry's intensity, and I think that, of course, there are elements where, in the second reading through the amendment, we might be able to correct something, but in principle, I think this is a good law and that it is necessary for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2112	Okay, thank you very much. The word came from Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2113	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2114	I'm sorry I haven't seen you. Mladen Ivanić replica. Excuse me, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2115	I don't know what you're talking to me about? I was just quoting what I got in a letter from Minister Chadja. That's you to him, not to me. If it's sarcasm to say I'm a loyal citizen of the RS, I apologize, and I think I'm trying to be loyal. It's you, čađa, not me. __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, that's another topic.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2117	Okay. We have a replica again now, a breach of the Rules of Procedure, what is it? Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2118	I apologize to the rest of my colleagues, of course. You're not Mr. Ivanić anything particularly interesting that I'm talking to you. Of course, the institutions of the RS and I should be respected, none of us here told who legitimately represented the interests of the RS not to respect them. And we don't need to continue to deepen some kind of negative communication here between you and me. I said, the truth is that there is one such opinion, and no one disputes it, but we have the right to talk about this area and to say openly here that none of us will ever accept the derrogation of the 24 powers of the RS. And I'll tell you in the same case that countless times you personally denied the positions of the RS institutions, voted differently in BiH institutions. There were several legal projects when you did not follow the opinion of the RS institutions, you did not follow the opinion of the competent ministers and you voted differently. No, I don't want to remind you and I don't want to, I apologize to everyone else, I don't want to get into any further kind of replication with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2119	Thank you very much. The word again appeared for the replica, Mr Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2120	Well, first of all, I didn't say you don't respect RS institutions. Did I say that? What am I talking about? I was quoting what was written in the letter and I didn't get a new one. And I say, whenever I think he's right, I'll try to be a loyal citizen. If she came in in the meantime, it was logical to get that letter. I don't even understand what you're defending, who are you actually protecting here? I said that Mr. Nović transferred jurisdiction? I didn't. When did you hear that from me? So don't lecture me like I'm not and nothing else. I just read nicely what I got and said I'd vote, nothing more. I don't understand why such replicas. So, more family business should be dealt with than with me.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2121	Okay, thank you. Here's the replica. Ognjen Tadić came forward, and then we'll discuss it later.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2122	Your Honor, speaking of family relations, I would suggest we settle this within the Serbian delegates' club. So, we're neither SDS here, nor SNSD, nor PDP, if there was any misunderstanding on the relationship between the executives of one level or another, I think Mr. Nović has dealt with it and he's going to meet us as a minister, who is fortunately the same Srbin as we are, here what's the consequence. And the only thing I think is that this is a question, since we knew about both these letters and discussions on commissions, so maybe we should have solved it at the club, so we're not opening up here. On the other hand, it is clear that Mr Ivanić, as part of the opposition in this House, will perform in such a way as to take place in a situation that is favourable to him and I think that in some future situations, as it is likely to be, we should not do so. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2123	Okay. We're continuing the debate. Mrs. Krišto answered her word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2124	Thank you very much. 25 When it comes to the Law on Mine Action, I would like to say that the important reason for the adoption of this Law is that this Law should be brought into line with domestic relevant regulations because in the time since the Demining Act entered into force in BiH, there have been important changes in BiH's legislation, and in this sense this Law has to be adopted in many areas when it comes to demining. In fact, by implementing such a single bill, which is on our benches today, we are significantly improving security in BiH, increasing the efficiency of mine action and establishing such an organisational structure that should at any moment and in any situation, to say that it is able to respond reliably in an efficient and professional manner to all the demands of this BiH community, means that it should remove all the risks that exist from mines in BiH at the moment. The truth is that, when we considered the proposal for this law on our working bodies, it was indeed observed that certain, let me say, technical perhaps misunderstandings or legal-technical shortcomings with which the minister who himself was, in some way, the technical processor of this Law was introduced to the Council of Ministers. I find it necessary to pass the law. In front of the Croatian Envoys Club, we will support this Bill proposal, and here is a suggestion for everyone to try to improve the text by reading the second in every way with these legal technical provisions and those relating to the marking of certain members in terms of nomotechnical, etc. and all the other misunderstandings. Here, in this sense, I thank the Proposer of the Council of Ministers once again, and I think we should all support this because this is the interest of the whole of BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2125	Thank you very much. Mr. Bradarić answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2126	Well, estimates are that in BiH there are about 220,000 lagging mines and mine-explosives on the surface of approximately 1,500 square miles [1,500 sq km] which is about, almost 3% of BiH's total territory. So this is a really big problem for BiH and BiH has committed to clear these areas first by 2009, then until 2019, and it is obvious that this deadline will not be respected precisely because there are many problems in the process of demining. This Law is therefore introduced in order to introduce order, for there have been many objections to all this and to the Law so far. The law allows or better, obliges entities to give some stamps, because so far they have been very stingy when it comes to it. And of course, they will be able to re-enable in accordance with the Law by means of these funds and will clean up their own areas. The funds collected under Article 18 of this Act will be available, will actually be managed by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, again in accordance with the Law. And as I said, the funds collected on the entities will be managed by the competent bodies of the entity and will set priorities when the process of demining is. But the funds of international organisations, donations from international 26 organisations and foreign governments will be managed by international organisations themselves through their authorised bodies, which is not under this Act. If we were to adopt this Law, then we would certainly give up on some donors who do not want to pay in this way, i.e. to pay in the Ministry or the State Budget, but rather want to do so through those organisations that themselves are authorized. And that's why it would be a problem, so we'd make a problem for ourselves, and that's why at this kind of amendment phase, we'd go towards meaning to foreign donors, allowing foreign governments to allocate funds the way they want to, in fact, as it has been so far. So, there's order in this law. Most of the objections were in the process of demining. There's no more BHMAC because he was the most objector and I'm really glad that's the case. And of course, instead of BHMAC, there will be competent institutions, agencies, which will conduct this process completely transparently.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2127	The word is, and we have Dragutin Rodić, then the minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I just need to say a few words, when it comes to this law for the simple reason that I think that when regulation of a legal area is applied to certain acts and when it's been a long time, we come to the conclusion whether that application of the law was good or bad. But we are all witnessing many accidents that are happening in BiH and RS, and that is the question that I think gives us enough reason to approach this act in a very responsible and principled way today. Unfortunately, at the beginning of this debate we entered into the formal legal nature of this issue, however, if carefully, and I am on this Law and on the Commission of Constitutional Law we have long discussed this subject and jurisdiction, the transfer of jurisdiction and what it regulates. In essence, we are changing a law that has long been in force, we are in this law incorporating certain legal rules, certain conventions. And I'm convinced that through this regular procedure, we're going to get to a law that's going to be very high-quality in this area and that we're going to have something normally covered that we don't seem to have so far. For this reason, I will support this Law and I think that through procedure and other reading we can further improve these legal rules and come up with something that we will all benefit from in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2129	We have another delegate, Krstan Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 27 There is no need to talk about the importance and needs of passing such a law because it is a big, big problem for BiH. There are almost no municipalities where non-relatable mines pose a potential danger to citizens, especially children who are often unaware of the dangers they are being exposed to. Mr. Bradarić opened a very interesting topic. We know that, at the beginning of the war, for a time, there was great activity in the process of demining through donor actions. Unfortunately, these donors are gone. The reasons for this were that a little bit of Europe and the world were fed up with Bosnia, on the one hand, and on the other hand, I have information that people have been faced and that there have been many, many irregularities here, many of them I will even tell fraud and depicted places that were not even mined and quickly cleaned, and therefore this Law also needs to create and enable the return and trust of future donors to try to end this process as soon as possible. Therefore, I also believe that it is necessary to create a legal basis for a donor who appears here and asks that he manages to protect his resources that he should be allowed to do so. Why? He's giving money, he wants to control that money, and he should choose the agency if it's a foundation, in which case I don't think he should even be a tender. What seems appropriate to me at this point, perhaps in this second phase, when we work more on the law, it would be useful and foreseeing one legal obligation for BiH to adopt three-year or five-year demining plans in accordance with entities, so that we could follow the process and see how much this is happening, not just passing the law, and counting on the team to solve the problem of demining. The problem of demining was solved the moment mines were removed from the field. One such program in one coordination with both entities would be safe, certainly good on the one hand, and on the other hand you could see where these interventions are primary, because not all terrains are equally important and not all terrains are equally threatened, I repeat, people, although every mine that lags behind the potential danger, but you have a field where you have a minefield today, and God Bog someone when they land with a car can end up in a minefield, there's so much danger. We will support this Law and we will see that we try and act in the direction of its improvement at the stage in which it follows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2131	Thank you very much. The words came from the minister of civil affairs and communication, Mr. Sredoje Nović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2132	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished delegates. Very short. The needs for the adoption of this Act are multiple, legitimate, natural, organisational, supervisory, strategic, enforcement of international obligations and humanitarian. Everything in this law is covered. 28 I agree with all of you who have pointed to certain, let me say, nomotechnical errors that we have made because we haven’t looked closely enough, so certain points, letters and so on have been replaced, which essentially, if they remained like this, would mean a significant deterioration, not improvement. And that's what I said to the Joint Commission, that we saw it, and that's what we presented. And thirdly, probably a respected delegate, Mr Ivanić is not familiar with the letter of Minister Stanislav Čađe, number: 2681 since 07.11.2012, which removes all shortcomings, i.e. any dilemma about the transfer of jurisdiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2133	Thank you very much. Since no one's answering our calls anymore, we're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please initiate the voting mechanism. I find that, of the 13 present – 12 is for, against 1, abstentioned none. There's a general and entity majority. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Ministry Act and other bodies (first reading), Proposer of the BiH Council of Ministers This is the first reading of the bill. First there is a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the proposal is based. You've been given the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. At its 36th session, held on 20.11.2012, the House of Representatives adopted the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Ministrys and other management bodies in the first reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Krstan Simić, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2135	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2136	There's no need. Proposer of law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need. 29 I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? Since no one's answering our questions, we're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please initiate the voting mechanism. Of the 13 present - 12 were for, no one against, a abstention one. There's a general and entity majority. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the BiH administration was adopted in the first reading. We're moving to the eighth item of the agenda, Ad. 8. Annual report on external trade authorisations issued for arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2011, Foreign Trade Ministry material and economic relations with BiH since 05.10.2012
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2139	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2140	Thank you. I give my word to the Reporter if he's present. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You don't have to. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? 30 Since no one's answering our questions, we're voting on the report. Please initiate the voting mechanism. Of the 13 present -- for 11, and I was in, I don't know how this came out like this, against nobody, abstention 2. I konstatovati that the annual report on external trade in arms and military equipment, dual and special purpose products, has been adopted. We are now voting on the Commission's conclusion. Please initiate the voting mechanism. Of the 13 present - 12 for, versus none, abstention 1. The general and entity majority exist. I also find that the conclusion has been adopted. We're going to the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Appointment of a member of the Management Board of the Bosniak People's Public Broadcasting Service (Rang List of BiH Communications Regulatory Agency) of 18.11.2011 and the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Public Broadcasting Service from the Serbian and Croatian people (rank List of BiH Communications Regulatory Agency) of 04.10.2012
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2143	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2144	There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Here, Mrs. Krišto answered. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2145	Thank you very much. Here I suggest you just...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2146	Excuse me, we have Halid Genjac here, breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please let me first...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2147	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2148	I'm sorry, I didn't really see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2149	I'm sorry, it's not actually a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it's an intervention in terms of asking for a break for the club, and since I don't have these options here, so I wanted to propose a 15-minute break on behalf of the Bosniak Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2150	Okay, thank you very much. Then we'll, we'll continue the debate, I'll take a 15-minute break. [[PAUZA]] We continue with the 9th agenda - appointment of members of the Management Board. It was a break. We do, before Mrs. Krišto came forward, and maybe if Mrs. Krišto spoke first, then we'll give Halid, on behalf of the club that asked for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2152	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2153	It's the club first, isn't it? Well, then I'm sorry, it's not intentional, but here you are, Halid, Mr. Genjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2154	Thank you. We asked for a break and I hope Mrs. Krišto understands this. So, the Bosniak Club, meanwhile, was considering this issue and most of the delegates at the Club, we've set ourselves up for the following. 32 Under 1. To warn before the House delegate's statement of the fact that in the previous act, we adopted the Law on the Communications of BiH and one of the reasons even for the urgent procedure, or sending the law into both readings, was that, after a long time, the mandate of the Agency's Council should finally be resolved. So, we've established that the term of office has expired for the members of the Agency. We today have a proposal for a RAC in which the mandate of members of the Agency has expired long ago. We warn, therefore, that we have a proposal that has not come from a legitimate and legitimate promoter. The urgency of the law and the need to adopt a law that would allow the appointment of the Council as soon as possible was so that even a law with obvious deficiencies was passed that I don't think anyone can dispute. That is why we think, therefore, that if we have already adopted the law urgently, which should be dealt with in a very urgent time by the Council, the Council of the Agency should be put in place very quickly under the new law to renew the procedure and deliver a proposal to the Parliamentary Assembly, because we will then have a legitimate proposal. Another thing we'd like to warn you about, Article 26. The Law on the Public TV Service of BiH, in its position (2), explicitly states - members of the Management Board cannot be appointed, so under a) and b), and finally c) says: employees of the RT Federation of BiH, RTRS and Corporation. One of the candidates confirmed by the House of Representatives in his proposal is Mr Marčeta, who has a working relationship in RTRS. So he's got a working relationship in RTRS. And here it is said that members of the Management Board, you can't say it can't be, but you can't be named one who's employed, among other things in the RTRS. And the third thing we want to warn about is Mr. Gotovuša's existence of a possible conflict of interest. Therefore, Mr. Gotovuša's family member is employed at the Federation of BiH Radiotelevision and in light of the provisions of our Law on Conflict of Interest, which is applicable and the law quoted about the Law on the Public TV system, we believe that Mr. Gotovina is in conflict of interest. For all of these reasons, it is our proposal that a statement on the filling of the vacant seats of the Board of Directors of the RTV Service of BiH be postponed until a new proposal is received by the legitimate RAK Council, and the RAC, which will be based on compliance with the provisions on conflict of interest and allowed positions for future members of the RTV Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2155	Thank you very much. Mrs. Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2156	Thank you very much. Before I start with my proposal, I'd say that this for me from Mr. Genjac was not the reason for asking for a break, but in some way a debate on this point, so I'm asking you to take care of the business provisions in the future. Thank you very much. As regards the proposal for appointments for members of the BiH Radiotelevision System Management Board, my proposal would be to bring together a statement on the appointment of members of the Management Board and the Public Television System of BiH in the order of the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian peoples, i.e. 33 we vote in the package as we did, and in the way we pleaded in the relevant committees and as the House of Representatives did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2157	Okay, thank you very much. Krstan Simić answered the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll relate to Mr. Genjac's discussion. How many times in this House, how many times in the media is the issue of what happens to RAC members and have never been legitimate, or legal, illegal, simply those people did their job. They were getting paid, doing all the functions that belonged to them, and it seems a little hypocritical to me that now that the law has been passed, when the question is to establish order in principle..., the question arises whether they could have done this job. They've done this job, the evaluation and the score of the candidates. And I join Mrs. Krišto proposal that we vote unitedly on all candidates who have been proposed and I would like, in the future, when we choose members of a variety of functions, to respect the ranking list established by the expert commissions, not to create one image that we have the work of a commission that proposes candidates, and then we start to end these lists with various interests, probably in various parts of party, political and similar. I will support the proposal of all candidates who have received the highest rating from the Commission, because I believe that they should be trusted in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2159	Thank you very much. Nermina Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2160	...the chairman. As a member of the Commission on Foreign Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications to the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I am obliged to remind myself that, based on the two previous conclusions of the Commission, we have decided to elect first the Council, i.e. the RAC Council, and only then to elect members of the Board of Directors of the BHRT. I think my colleagues remember that well. This is due to the first choice of legitimate and legal members of the RAC Council, as their mandate expired in 2009. Indeed, in a democratic state, based on legitimate institutions, it is unacceptable that we are in the interests of narrow interest, which within the RAC, which within public services, marketing organisations and stakeholders, we are put in a position to start the procedure of selecting legitimate and legal members of the Board of Directors of BHRT for several years. For which, I dare say, the political reason why the lack of legitimacy in BiH public services bodies 34 towards public services and RAC in BiH should be approached with double arches, thus discriminating the Board of Directors of BHRT. In a country based on the rule of law, i.e. the rule of law, legitimacy and legality for the purposes of which the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is founded and therefore also the House of Peoples, I believe it is necessary first to carry out the selection of legitimate and legal members of the Council, or the Council, as well as the Director of RAC, and then to elect members of the Board of Directors of BHRT in accordance with the laws, procedures, and especially because we have adopted the Law on the Amendments of the Communications Act today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2161	Okay, thank you very much. Since no one is answering for a word nor for a replica anymore, then we approach the plea, first on the proposal of Mr Genjac's conclusion to postpone the declaration to the election of this legitimate RAC Council to comply with the provisions of the Law on the Public Television System and the Law on Conflict of Interest. Please allow a vote on this conclusion. I find that of the 13 present – for either 3, versus 9, abstention 1 and that the conclusion did not get the required majority, neither general nor entity. Thank you very much. We now approach the vote, we have a proposal to vote in a package for all members of this Management Board. Please, let's get to the bottom of this proposal first, and then let's vote. Who it is, run the voting mechanism. There are 13 -- for 8, against 3, abstention 2, the general majority exists, the entity majority exists. So they're going to vote in a package on all three candidates' names. Let's see who's going to propose these three names now. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2162	Thank you very much. I only answered if you, as chairman, had the views of the House of Representatives, because my proposal and contained that we voted on a list that had passed in the package and in the House of Representatives. And if not, here's what I'm going to suggest. I propose that for members of the Management Board and the Public Television System of the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian people: Esad Gotovuša from the Bosniak people's order, Valentina Rupčić from the Croatian people and Vladimir Marčeta from the Serb people's ranks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2163	Okay, thank you very much. Please initiate the voting mechanism. Here, I find that of the 13 present – for any 8.3 v, 2 abstentions, there is a general, there is an entity majority. I therefore find that the House of Nations has appointed Esad Gotovuša as member of 35 of the Public Radio Television Service Management Board of the Bosniak people, Vladimir Marčeta of the Serbian and Valentina Rupčić of the Croatian people. We have another conclusion from the College that the former members of the BiH Radiotelevision Management Board have been extended until 01/09/2012, to the date of appointment of new members of the BiH Radiotelevision Management Board. Mladen Ivanić answered for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2164	Well, I mean I don't mind, but I think somewhere, let's at least as my discussion, it would be correct for these people who, after the great problems they had at first in mutual relations, try to ultimately lead to some reasonable framework. I don't mean to give any gratitude and nothing but to realize that there were huge conflicts at first within the board of directors and that there was finally some consistent relationship. I know that I won't agree with the former CEO, but that's my opinion as a feature that, you remember the joint sessions we had, the conflicts, I just wanted to point out, nothing more, about this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2165	Okay, well thank you, this is a discussion, Mr Ivanić's opinion, which I can agree with in a certain way, but I don't think it should be any conclusion or attitude right now, because there would probably be different opinions. Now to vote on this conclusion, since we are still covering this period of mandate that we have not covered, it is from 01/09/09 to today, to the members of the Management Board so far. Please initiate the voting mechanism. Let's just say that out of 13 of the 13 present, all 13 were in favour and that I realize that the conclusion on the extension of the mandate to the former members to this day has been adopted. Thank you very much. You see, we now have one dilemma here whether or not to move forward, since we have a Joint College of the Houses of the BiH Parliament, and we have eight points left, this 10th, 11th, 12th, will demand certain discussions, agreements, I don't know, here's if we're going to continue or leave it for Thursday.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2166	Thursday.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-04-0.u2167	Well, then here's how I see it, we all agree to stop today's session, to continue to mean this session on Thursday at 1400 hours, then we'll have a new session for Budget special. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 13:55 p.m.
