ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1830	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, representatives of the BiH Council of Ministers, the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 21st session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 15 delegates, 5 from the Bosniak, 5 from the Croatian and 5 from the Serbian people. For the 21st session, I propose the next agenda. The adoption of the minutes from the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Answer the delegates' questions and new delegates' questions; 3. Confirmation of the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to replace Bosnia and Herzegovina's security minister, Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence minister and Deputy Finance and Treasury Minister of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material number: 01.02-34-1-754/12, since 25.06.2012; 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the financing of institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, Act No: 01,02-02-1-28/11, of 29.12/11; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-30/12, of 11.07.2012; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-26/12, of 26.06.2012; 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-31/12, of 13.07.2012; 8. Proposal for a law on the financing of political parties (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Law No: 02-02-1-28/12, of 23.07.2012; 9. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2011, the Council of Ministers' material, number: 01.02-50-19-959/12, dated 20.07.2012; 2 10. Report on the work of the Investigative Commission on both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to check the legality of the ammunition destruction process, mine-explosive means, weapons and military equipment, material number: 01,02-50-19-980/12, of 25.07.2012; 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE) Convention on the Cross-border Effects of Industrial Hawaries, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-965/12, of 23.07.2012; 12. Giving consent to ratifying the Loan Treaty (Capljina Water Supply Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-981/12, of 26.07.2012; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Guarantee Treaty (which relates to the Loan for the Road from Banja Luka to Doboj - Phase 1 of the Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-982/12, of 26.07.2012; 14. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Funding between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on a horizontal nuclear safety programme and radiation protection under the 2009 Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, the BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-1004/12, of 06.08.2012; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Vienna Convention on Civil Responsibility for Nuclear Damage, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-106/12, of 09.08.2012; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on cooperation in the fight against organised crime, illicit trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances, terrorism, as well as other types of serious crime, BiH Presidency material, issue 01.02-05-1-1007/12, of 09.08.2012; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Inland waterways and their technical maintenance, materials of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-1009/12, of 10.08.2012; 18.08.2012. Giving consent to ratifying the Memorandum of Understanding on Cooperation and Support in relation to the sekretarijat of the konvencija on Police Cooperation for Southeast Europe, the BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-1013/12, of 20.08.2012. Is anyone answering for a word, is there a change in the agenda? Since no one is answering the question, this is a harmonised agenda for the House of People's Colleges, and that's not what you're voting on. We're moving to the first item of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Since no one's answering for a word, we approach the vote. I find that the minutes were adopted unanimously from the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. We're going to the second item of the agenda, and that's 3 Ad. 2. Answers to Legislative Questions and New Legislative Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1833	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I am satisfied with the information that has been provided to me, but I did not ask this question just to get these data, but to draw certain conclusions about this issue after getting the data. The question that you have, the answer that you have also received, is that in BiH, compared to the average of the Council of Europe, we have three judges over 100,000 inhabitants. And we have, according to the assessment, citizens above all, and often a particular non-governmental sector, an unsatisfactory situation in the area of justice, especially the length of the proceedings and other issues related to this, and in particular to the issue of the processing of war crimes. Also, what I was particularly concerned about was the information about the number of prosecutors. BiH, as you know, by perception and the public and relevant organisations dealing with the research of corruption, belongs to countries where corruption is marked as having the highest degree on the one hand, on the other hand represents one of the major problems of society, and we lack the average of three prosecutors. Three prosecutors times the number of inhabitants, it is 120 prosecutors missing from the BiH state that has a serious problem with corruption, a country that has a serious problem with a stalemate in the processing of war crimes. And I therefore propose that this report, of course, be forwarded to the entity parliaments, to the High Judicial Council and to be one of the leaders in our future activities how to regulate the issue of adequate representation in the BiH judiciary in order to respond independently to its requirements concerning the protection of the law on the one hand, the fight against corruption and at the end of the trial, the processing of war crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1834	Thank you very much. The next one came from Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1835	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 4 I received several answers to several questions, given that I am not satisfied with the answers offered at the next session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I will update the same issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1836	Thank you very much. Mehmed Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1837	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. I've been taking two initiatives lately. One was that there was an application to form a parliamentary body that would determine the amount of nepotism in BiH institutions, which no doubt has in huge quantities. And unfortunately, this initiative did not come across support, and my reason was that, when they are already employed, they are not the best and most valuable personnel and what kind of problems we will have when we approach the EU one day. And second, the second initiative was, and this response, which I received, which I am not satisfied with, is that one joint parliamentary anti-corruption committee is being formed, meaning to fight corruption, which I wrote there, would oversee and analyse the work of all institutions, bodies, organisations in BiH in the fight against corruption and, among other things, consider citizens' performances, because in this country no one is doing it. I don't count those criminals anymore, and so on. I know there are institutions dealing with the fight against corruption, it's the D.A., it's security agencies, it's ultimately this Anti-Corruption Agency that we've done nothing about. She only has her own leadership, she's not adopted or new systematization, or she's been halved, and then since New Year's, it seems to me that a moratorium is being introduced to employment, so it's going to come down to five, six people. So they have no human resources, no technical assumptions. And I've been particularly moved by the fact that lately all these code-name actions in the arrest of people have been out of action and there have been no high-ranking police officers there. So, among those arrested were they either customs or the Directorate for indirect taxation and so on. I'm sorry the Joint College didn't accept this initiative and I say normally I won't be bored, but I will find a way to, how to highlight this problem. Here is a colleague, Krstan Simić, and we all talk about it here ten days ago, Mr Sorensen read us all a letter and told us – BiH cannot enter the EU until it solves the issue of fighting organised crime and corruption. So I'm not happy with the answer. I think, though, that she wasn't in charge, that she wasn't in charge of the Joint College, I think that somehow she needed another initiative. But here, I'm not giving it up. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1838	Thank you very much. Borjana Krišto. Here you go. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1839	Thank you very much. Dear Members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I welcome you all. Here, on my questions I can say that I am satisfied with the answer I received from the Directorate for European Integration. But my second question concerning the construction and training of two border crossings, which are Bijača and Gradiška, I am satisfied relatively with the response of the Board of Immediate Taxation, because these are the facts they wrote in their answer, but indeed, here I expect an answer from the competent ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1840	Thank you very much. Since no one is answering the word now, I am opening the discussion, or the right to ask delegate questions. Who's answering for a word? Since no one is answering for, I apologize, Hasan Bećirović first.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1841	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd actually like to ask the House's leadership a question, so to you. In this year, you are aware that the House adopted one conclusion on the preparation of the analysis and instructed the Council of Ministers to analyse the criteria for the distribution of funds from the Joint Account from indirect taxes, legality and professional regularity of VAT registration, measures taken to eliminate or reduce evasion and ejaculation, all for the period 2007-2012. Since it's the end of October, and we don't have any information, I'm curious – what did you do as a Home Manager to, let me put it that way, I don't have a more adequate term, would you agree to the Council of Ministers to do my homework? That's the first question, as far as he's concerned, he can do it orally, and he can do it in writing. But I'd be much more pleased if you could, and do it orally immediately. This is a very important question. Obviously, even the Council of Ministers, regardless of the turbulent time in which this conclusion was adopted, I think it is very important and that we finally, regardless of all the political problems, must turn to real things. And another question that I would take the opportunity to get out of here to the governments of the entity, including the government of the Brcko District. I wonder if there is also a way to monitor the application of the provisions of entity laws on public undertakings that regulate conflict of interest and what are the findings of this surveillance? In fact, we're all talking about corruption with the right because definitely that corruption is a process that is contrary to creation and opposite to creation and definitely, by my deep conviction, the level of corruption is in direct proportion to the progress of a country, it's holding it back, it's always holding it back. The area of companies, especially public enterprises, and unregulated relations between owners and companies' assets in the private sector is one of the sources of an extremely large amount of corruption. In practice, it is very clear, you will encounter cases where members of the entity’s board of public enterprises end the 6 main activities of the public company and start their own companies, stay working in a public enterprise, and by abuse and corruption virtually direct all jobs to their private, private enterprises. This is becoming a serious problem to the extent that it endangers the serious efficiency of the business of public enterprises and, of course, it is very serious to encourage corruption at all levels. And I would ask that this question be taken very seriously and that we try to get an answer to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1842	Thank you very much. I would ask, here are all the delegates to ask questions in writing as usual. Mladen Ivanić is now answering for his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1843	Here, it has been more than a year since this House reached one conclusion, and I ask questions every time, I have also asked the chairman of Čović and the chairman of Tadić, and that the chairman of Tihić would not be angry and I will ask him a question, and that I would not consider that I have something against him on the national line. So, the question was raised at last session of the College, and at the last session three months ago, the College was asked in writing – is it intended to ask the OHR to analyse the work of foreign prosecutors and judges in order to finally implement the conclusion of the House of September last year? So, in three months, the College was unable to tell if it had any intention. Here, I didn't even ask her to look, only if she was going to look. I can understand that all of them are afraid of OHR having us, the prosecutor referred us to the OHR to ask him for that analysis, I will rephrase the question and say – Should the College of the House of People not ask the OHR to analyse the work of foreign prosecutors and judges in order to finally realize the conclusion of the House from September last year? And if the answer is that it must not, then it is my question – Is the College ready to propose the abolition of the mentioned conclusion? Because I really think that, with all the jokes, one such serious conclusion, that it is only required that the competent body does an analysis of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges, can not be realised for more than a year, then at least let us not play with it and say that we are unable to do so, that we can go public – in this country no one, is afraid, is to carry out an analysis of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges who, instead of true judges, are employed by OHR officials, officials of international institutions, who, instead of introducing law in this country, have conducted political terror in many cases over... I'll put it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1844	Okay. You can get an immediate answer as to whether or not the College may, we may and may ask for that request and we have asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1845	Well, I didn't get an answer to the question. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1846	And we've been looking, we've been looking for it so far, and here I'm going to do my best, maybe for these reasons that you mentioned that really, to get that answer, and personally along with your...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1847	But I would still beg the College for proof and a written answer, to get an answer to the question. I can believe this, but until I get that you asked then, then I can go towards the OHR.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1848	All right, all right. Next came Krstan Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1849	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two questions. Unfortunately, this summer, we witnessed the failure of the bh team at the Olympic Games, while neighbouring countries in the region have achieved some successes that, according to my assessment, were not high-level, but were still the results that gave them hope that they could do better in the future. So I ask the following question – Is there any advice from the Council of Ministers on the development of Olympic sport in BiH, and if I ask for information on BiH's participation in the London Olympics, income and expenditure structure, a plan for participating in the next Olympic Games is being drawn up through all the parameters that monitor this part? I must point out, I forgot the name of both the state and the minister, that a minister from an African state has resigned because his country only won 14 Olympic medals. This should also be an example of our responsibility to Olympic sport, especially given the importance of sport, especially Olympic sport in the affirmation of community on the one hand, on the other hand, and because of youth that is increasingly seeking a foothold in alcohol and drugs. The other day I read the information that every third grader in high school has a touch with alcohol, which is defeating the aspect of this society. Second question. Taking part in the the thematic session of the Central European Initiative, some delegations raised the issue of the economic justification for the construction of infrastructure facilities, highways and others. BiH is on the move to build Corridor 5C, so I would ask for information – What does economic mathematics show about exploiting the built-up route of the Zenica highway – Sarajevo in the section of which toll collection is made at 4.2 KM, which is a relatively high price given BiH standards? I'm aware of the facts of what infrastructure means, what it means for the development of society, what it means for investors to arrive, but in every business, a pen must be a factor that must be respected. Of course I want both answers in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1850	Thank you very much. Nermina Kapetanović. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1851	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In accordance with Articles 144 and 145. The Rules of Procedure of the House of People, and regarding the European Commission's Progress Report in 2012 I refer to the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH the following questions: - How long has it been since the draft law on the BiH Agency for the Development of the Information Society? - When will the regulations be in line with the Electronic Business and Implementation Directive? - When will the State Law on Electronic Signature adopted in 2006, and when will the State Law on Electronic Legal and Business Transport of BiH enter into force? Explanations: The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is at 85. Sessions, held long ago in 2006. Year, and House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at 63rd Session, also held in 2006. In years, they adopted the Law on Electronic Signature, which was published in "The Official Messenger of BiH" 91/06. On the basis of Article 26(2) of the Law, the Council of Ministers of BiH has undertaken, no later than 6 months after the date of publication of this Act, to adopt sublaws for the implementation of this Act, and the competent ministry, or the Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, in accordance with Article 3 of the same Article, to coordinate, within two months, the internal organisation of the Ministry with Article 20(1) of that Law and to set up a supervisory and accreditation office as a supervisory authority for the implementation of that Act. Given that it has been six years since the adoption of this Law and that the European Commission in the 2012 report has estimated that BiH has not made any progress in this area, please a written answer to the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1852	Thank you very much. Mehmed Bradarić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1853	I have two questions. First, I ask that all BiH institutions provide me with answers to these two questions, I read: First question – How much did BiH institutions pay in the period 2006 to 2011 on behalf of their schooling costs to their managers and employees? Checkup by age and users. Specify which position, or which jobs those who have received the means of education, which I am primarily interested in getting the funds to lay down and defend master's and doctorate. I have proof that people have given themselves even 15 grand for these things. 9 And the second question – Why was there a delay in the implementation of the digitalisation of audio difusion project in BiH? I recall the fact that BiH took the obligation by signing a multilateral agreement in Geneva in 2006 to completely shut down the analogue broadcast signal in BiH by 2015 at the latest. At the 18th session of 22.06.2012, when a report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals for 2011 was discussed, I warned that the Office does not fully apply its Rules of Procedure, leading to a long-standing conflict within the Office and has created problems in the conduct of the appeal procedure regarding the procurement of equipment for the first phase of digitalisation of public broadcasters in BiH. Therefore, the inexplicable behaviour of the responsible persons in the Board of Appeals is the reason that no final decision by appeal was made after five months of the time limit laid down by law. So there is a real danger that BiH in 2015 does not carry out its obligations to switch from analogue to digital system and there is still a series of problems such as not being the only tender, comes winter who can mount equipment in winter and so on. So it's the fault of the Board of Appeal and should be clearly told the citizens that 2015. For years, if it goes on like this, there won't be any pictures on their TV screens except there's some connections I don't know either. That's it. I take it in writing, I'm asking for it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1854	Thank you very much. Krunoslav Vrdoljak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1855	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. They say it is for each country that three sectors in which full independence must be achieved or maximum, namely food production, finance and the energy sector. These two first ones have long lost every independence, however, in the energy sector, and because of the slow reactions of the authorities, addiction is growing. On the other hand, public debates of political powers have blocked many good ideas at the outset without serious professional analyses and by the rule without more significant public involvement in decision-making. Currently, the most pressing problem from the energy sector is the Upper Horizons where it is obvious that the profession, public and politics have completely opposite views. The RS has a firm intention to build a Dabar hydropower plant in the Dabar field, which involves water translation from the Upper to the Lower Horizon, but at the same time, water translation from one river basin to another, which is very sensitive from the aspect of environmental protection and nature, and for this reason regulated by laws in the field of environmental protection and water protection in both bh entities, as well as in the international community. Obviously, many of the regulations try to bypass. I am aware that the competent ministries of the Federation have tried to warn the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that the construction of a tunnel according to the Fattic field without the legislation prescribed an environmental impact assessment, i.e. a mandatory study of environmental impact assessment, as well as without new research and monitoring of the waters of this sensitive karst area does not refer to the fact that the project could be of mutual and multi-purpose benefit to the translation of the waters from the Uppers into the Lower Horizonte. It's obvious that communication is not at an envious level. Continuing the realization of this project without mentioned analyses, part of the profession is assessed very disastrously, and some go so far as to claim that flora and fauna will be completely destroyed along Neretva 10 even to the Holidays, some speak even more until Mostar. They are joined by some NGOs, and I appreciate that the problem with this multiplier cannot be avoided. And the most serious warning came from the World Nature Protection Fund, which, through its Study of the influence of the Dabar Hydropower Plant on the environment, has seriously warned about these problems. And I ask the Council of Ministers – Is the Council of Ministers, through the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, or the Department of Environment, which is part of this Ministry, familiar with this Project? Has any relevant state-level body done an evaluation of the project and given any assessment of the project? If not, does the Council of Ministers intend to take any action to define the status of the Upper Horizon project in terms of its economic viability and its environmental harmfulness, particularly in the river Neretva and the deltas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1856	Thank you very much. Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I have noticed from the discussions so far that delegate Krstan Simić has proposed one conclusion and I think he could adopt that the answer he received regarding the number of prosecutors and judges in BiH, that such a response be forwarded to entity assemblies, the Council of Ministers and the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. I think we can agree to adopt a conclusion like this. I'd like to ask, here's to vote on this conclusion, to allow for a vote. I find the conclusion unanimously adopted. We're going to the third item of the agenda, Ad. 3. Confirming BiH Security Minister, BiH Defence Minister and Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury On 25.06.2012, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers addressed the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to the Decision on the replacement of Security, Defence and Deputy Finance and Treasury Ministers for confirmation. The 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, held on 19 July 2012, discussed the confirmation of the Council of Ministers' decision to replace the Ministers of Security, Defence and Deputy Minister of Finance and the BiH Treasury. Delegates to the Bosniak People's Club Halid Genjac, Sulejman Tihić and Nermina Kapetanović, in accordance with Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples have declared the proposed Decision confirming the Council of Ministers' decision to replace the Ministers of Security, Defence Minister and Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury, harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. Following the announced decision of the BiH Council of Ministers on the replacement of the BiH Security Minister, BiH Defence Minister and Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury, a debate was suspended and the vote on whether the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to replace the Minister of Security, Defence and Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury was harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. 11 Since most delegates in Croatian and Serbian clubs have declared that the decision is harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people, a Joint Commission has been established to address the issue of vital interest of three delegates from each constituent nation to resolve the issue. Members of the Joint Commission were appointed Halid Genjac from the Bosniak people, Borjana Krišto from the Croatian people and Staša Košarac from the Serb people. The Joint Commission for the resolution of the issue of vital interest met in 19.07.2012 and found that it had failed to reach a solution and found that, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of BiH and the Rules of Procedure of the People's House, the whole case should be applied to the BiH Constitutional Court for further proceedings. Chairman of the House of Peoples in accordance with Article 4(3)f) of the Constitution of BiH and Article 162(2). The Rules of Procedure of the People's House have referred to the Constitutional Court a request to examine the regularity of the procedure, i.e. to establish the existence or absence of a constitutional basis for declaring harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. Confirming the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to replace the security minister, defence minister and deputy finance minister and vault. The BiH Constitutional Court delivered its decision number to the House on 28th08.2012: U. 12/12 of 24.08.2012, which states that the Bosnian People's Club's Declaration in the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the destruction of the vital interest of the Bosniak people in BiH does not meet the conditions of procedural regularity laid down in Article 4.3.f) of the BiH Constitution because the proposed decision confirming the Council of Ministers' decision to replace the security minister, defence minister and deputy finance and vault minister is not destructive in the vital interest of the Bosniak people in BiH. The procedure for adopting the Decision confirming the decision of the BiH Council of Ministers to replace the Ministers of Security, Defence Minister and Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury should be implemented in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 4(3) of the BiH Constitution. I note that the House of Representatives at the 31st session, held on 05/07.2012, confirmed the Decision to replace the BiH Security Minister, the defence minister and the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Treasury. I give my word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Vjekoslav Bevanda, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1858	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1859	He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? The word came from Vice-President Dragan Čović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1860	Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here, I think it's a line after how long it's been since we've been going through these discussions and these agenda points, and everything in office to achieve a certain stability of politics, to discuss this topic today. And when we last week and agreed that this session would be at all, I was then with my colleague Tihić and Mr Tadić, and I said I don't mind having her 12 on the agenda today, first of all, in insisting that we definitely discuss this issue. What I would particularly like to stress is that, here is the fact now, of course formally so that we call on the Council of Ministers to give us its position on this issue, very clearly that this is primarily a political stance as a product of the five parties to the parliamentary majority a few months ago regarding the topic that we had at the time in the debate concerning the BiH budget, and we have estimated that this is the only reason why we are now going through this kind of thinking. We were convinced that through intense debates, agreements by all of us, first of all, we would solve this issue so that we would never open this problem in this way, because what is bad is that we are talking about Mr Ahmetović, Ibrahimović, Kasumović today. Because this debate has nothing to do with these distinguished names and those distinguished gentlemen, and that's very important, as it has nothing to do with the name of Vjeko Bevanda as the chairman of the Council of Ministers. We then asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers to do what the parliamentary majority asked, in accordance with its powers constitutionally and legally. My question today and me and all of us, what has changed since then? Of course, before we make a statement through a lot of debates, we will probably and many more breaks here to agree on how to perform, because I am sure that not even the largest number of us sitting here, who should declare on behalf of these 15 people today about this initiative, is still two, thinking or agreeing something. What I must say now, here as a representative of the party I represent and lead, is that our position is very clear on this issue. We wanted to, and that is why we have made more than one statement in the last month and a half on this subject, to please my colleague Tihić, because I am truly experiencing him as a friend and a colleague, to resolve some issues. The point is, maybe the smallest problem today is whether someone is changing, is very important for the people whose names are mentioned, which is why I immediately fenced myself that every spoken word has nothing to do with these people, even more, but what we have to solve definitely, because tomorrow we have another home where we're going to talk about some other topics, again the same message of the same content, again about someone's shifts. After two years of working together or trying to work together, we have the instability we have and we do not do our job that is entrusted to us on behalf of the citizens. And as for the interest of the people we represent, since this is the House of Peoples, I will say very openly, our key interest which I have not yet received from, here until this moment from those of whom I was expecting it, is whether we have the power to agree the executive power at all levels in BiH and which may be the answer to all the temptations that have been put before all of us today, meaning also the Council of Ministers and Government of the Federation, very precisely, and the county or cantons, especially those with a mixed population structure thinking of Central Bosnia and Herzegovina-Nerretvatan space. It is inconceivable for me that the HDZ, which after the previous two-year general elections together with its HDZ partners in '90s and other parties, has more than 90% of the support of the then Croatian voting body and that it is not part of the executive government in the Federation of BiH, as I cannot imagine that after these local elections, these two parties have again, I would say, an even more convincing message from the voting body. And if today someone is not ready to say that we have to rule and that this isn't just a game about the Council of Ministers or some kind of agreement of our colossals, but that we want to take one step and turn to the future, then I'm afraid it's a good thing that we discuss this thoroughly today, and also tomorrow and see how we go on at all. 13 One question is the positioning of legitimate and legal representatives of the Croatian people at all levels of government in BiH with an emphasis on the Federal level of government this time because at other levels it is more or less complicated in a way that... In other words, all those who are not ready today to support such a single thought, when it comes to the entity government, cannot expect our positive thinking about any solution, no matter how we personally view ourselves, because we are not here for personal viewing and friendly viewing, but for the protection of the interests of all the citizens of BiH and the people we represent here. The second question that is vital to me and all of us, and we have also discussed it on behalf of these six parties, and even at one point and seven parties in the past time, is the judgment of the Court of Justice in Strasbourg or the Roadmap signed together in Brussels by just seven party presidents who at that time made one convincing majority in BiH. Through the debate we've been having, it may not have anything to do with the agenda point and you'll see that there are many other decisions, for those of you who don't know it are being made in our heads, agreeing as such. That's why I have to say this, so once again in Banja Luka, we have long ago said that the key course that will guide our joint work on the Court's verdict in Strasbourg is because there are only two matters in the House of Peoples and members of the Presidency. It is a common idea to prevent any motivation from one nation's representatives, no matter what people are talking about, to choose representatives of another people, no matter what people are talking about again. In other words, we will always throw out the possibility that one member of the Presidency, on behalf of one nation, will be elected by representatives of another people or, in these benches of honor here, by the hierarchy of the lower, as the House of Nations has already been established in accordance with the laws and constitutions, the House of Nations' representative in one nation, in one club, is elected by representatives of another people, which was largely done two years ago. That's the two things we have to do together. And a message from this pay phone to all those, both for today and tomorrow's debate, the truth tomorrow... some other person but from the aspect of the same political messages, one who understands this as the interest of BiH that BiH cannot function but only as an absolute constitutional and equal for the Croatian, Bosniak and Serb people and people for all its citizens. On this side, who does not experience the Croatian people in such a way, and at this point it is the position of full executive authority, we have remained for many years and to deal with all problems, that power must be dealt with in a way that works with the same content through the Council of Ministers, through the Government of the Federation and through certain counties, or cantons, I fear that we are in a very difficult, demanding situation from which we will long look for a way out. And on the other hand, since Mr. Filler is coming to remind us here this 30th of this month, because that's the second deadline that we're missing and we're not doing anything, so he took it for himself to motivate us around that deadline, and let's remember the previous deadline was 31.08 this year, and then we, as representatives of the two HDZs, went out to Parliament with the idea of resolving the issue and we didn't invent anything. The main proposal we offered was the harmonised position of all parties around the House of Peoples. It's clear to me that we didn't have a consensus on the presidency. On this side of the messages to all of us, these are the issues that we will be dealing with when it comes to foreign policy, that is, above all, foreign policy, and it is not whether anyone will advertise in the Security Council in one way or another, it is clear how much weight our voice is out there, but whether or not we will open our doors through, here is the solution to the Court's ruling in Strasbourg and the resolution of this map. On the other hand, I will ask you once again to consider whether we want to open this story, when it comes to BiH, and we are making a full contribution to opening it up as such in a way that changes to the Constitution and everything that is necessary to change it, and that it is about the judgment of the Court in Strasbourg, for all time, to prevent anyone in the name of the Hrvat, I will now very precisely state, elect members of the 14 Presidencies, to choose in the name of the Hrvat in the homes of the peoples to choose those people. This, however, must be done by the Croatian people as the Bosniak people have the power to choose on behalf of their people, that is, the Serb people on behalf of their people. And the second dimension I'm talking about today, I'm going to do it one more time, and I'm going to end it, it's an executive issue. Those who still believe today that they can brutally play Croatian peoples' will by naming any person in executive power at federal level, I think they're going the wrong way, whatever they're saving for themselves. If they are destroying a message coming from the Croatian people, I fear that we can work together hard to work on joint projects and for the next two years to stabilise relations in BiH. Here, in this spirit, we will behave at today's gathering here and for this reason, first of all, those who are very clearly identified in these words, here I ask that we reconsider where we are going, because first of all, it will depend on the behavior of HDZ representatives here, or HDZ representatives in '90, here because we perform as one club. Thank you very much for your attention, with another excuse for mentioning the name of the Council of Ministers chairman, because I don't think that this should be tied to this debate here in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1861	I thank my esteemed colleague, Čović. Dear colleague Sulejman Tihić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1862	Dear delegates and guests. Here, I also want to take part in this debate and answer some questions asked by both Mr. Čović and generally when it comes to this agenda. Normally, I don't think anything different from Mr. Čović when it comes to the role of the Council of Ministers' chairman in this whole process and we know how it happened. However, I would like to say that since the 2010 elections, the whole process of implementation of election results from cantons, entities, to the state level of the SDA has been working hard, has played a constructive role, taking into account both the experience so far, the way power is formed, the one reality that exists in BiH and so on. We weren't election winners back then we were the second party and SDP was the electoral winner and in some way he ran those processes. We were trying to make a contribution on our part, and when there was the formation of the federal government, you remember the different combinations, I don't know you, fifths, two, this, that. When it comes to the Council of Ministers at the end, when it is over, I don't know you, 15 months and when it seems to me ready and on the Croatian side that one Croatian position should settle to the SDP I said stop, enough more, all three positions of Croatia should belong to HDZ. Both Mr. Čović and Mr. Ljubić remember that well. Normally, mine was not crucial at the time in the whole process and when it came to these mixed cantons and everything else, because I know that in BiH we can only solve problems in this way. And the SDA has always been a problem-solving factor. You remember well that Agreement when the Council of Ministers was formed I was hosting, and the Law on the List of 15 Populations, as criticised as we were for that Article 44. We had the strength and we said, "Here's the eraser of this article 44." Well, I don't know from the Brcko District, from the State Aid System Act and the Military Property Agreement, I don't know state property. We were leading forces, I dictated that agreement there as it was written. The SDA, therefore, played a positive role in the Council of Ministers both in forming and in the work of the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, after this procedure, we stayed in the Council of Ministers, we worked, but we didn't have this one initiative that we've had or that we would have, when we were at full capacity, had. Often, these various compromises we made, I don't know from April's package to the Prudic Process, cost both the SDA and me personally election results. Therefore, this is one of the reasons why the SDA should remain in power, regardless of those disagreements about budgets, budgets and so on, because there are far more of those things that we have made as our contribution to the successful, there is also the formation and work of the Council of Ministers. I'm sorry we didn't reach an agreement when it comes to the Federation, which is why HDZ is not part of the federal government. The question arises whether anything has changed in the meantime. Well, it has changed in a certain way, we have had elections in which the SDA has won an electoral legitimacy which, once again, is the strongest, most convincingly strong political party in BiH, normally in the Bosniak people, especially where we have won those other parties convincingly. And it is quite logical that such a party remains part of the system of government, that it be in the Council of Ministers, that there be no opposition, because such a strong party puts it in opposition is not good. Perhaps if we were to look at each other closely, it would be good if we could achieve an even better result later in 2014, because if we are in power, we would have to make a variety of compromises and fall back a little bit in the election result. However, I think that even when we look at the individual ministers of the SDA as they work, the truth was not to comment directly from either the chairman or any other president on the work, I don't know you, Ibrahimović and this Ahmetović, and yet it is about ministers who are seriously working and taking this job seriously. Here are the questions whether it's SDA, or what the SDA's position is when it comes to government at the Federation level. I mean openly, we've always said, we think HDZ should be part of that executive government. Not only in the Federation, but normally at all these levels, and I think we'll be part of the government wanted not to, in fact, wanted primarily at municipal levels, because such election results, especially in Central Bosnia, I don't know you, Herzegovina, Posavina, where we're going to meet here and we need to work. We have also signed an agreement back there in Ojak somewhere in Posavina a while ago, it seems to me in March of the month. Road map. I think we've all clearly defined ourselves there when we were in Brussels when they explained how we should agree, how to agree to speak with one voice, we all accepted it. They explained to us the examples of Spain, I don't know how you, Belgium, how these committees, these committees should work and I think that it should work intensively and that is, there are no political problems in this direction, it just probably just needs some decisions to be made, whether at the Council of Ministers level together with entity governments, whether Parliament should do this in some way and be done. The issue of the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci verdict, the election of members of the presidency, delegates, envoys, I don't know in the House of Peoples. You all know that the U.S.A. has never thought of running, I don't know you, a Hrvat member of the presidency. There are no Hrvat from the SDA or the House of Peoples. Because we thought that no matter how open we are, we were open to representatives of other peoples, that still those positions should belong to whoever has that legitimacy. Others have tried to do so in some ways, and that is why we had these problems. 16 Therefore, I think that in this way I have answered certain questions that Mr. Čović has raised here and I want us to work in that direction, and when it comes to the MAP and these coordinations that we need to create, and when it comes to the implementation of the Sjedić-Finci-Finci verdict. We can do this if we are part of the parliamentary majority, if our ministers are in the Council of Ministers, and therefore we have responsibilities. If we're in opposition then we'll work but not with the intensity that we have to do when we're in a position, then it's far greater and more responsibility. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1863	Thank you, dear colleague Tihić. Dear colleague Mladen Ivanić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1864	I'm a bit of a foreign body on this team because I come from the only party that's not at the level of power on the entity, or in the state, essentially, the only real opposition. I have to tell you, I was inspired, I didn't mean to answer, these two previous exhibits. It's clear to me how it's going to end if this is what I've heard almost pours out the gentleness, as I would say... The point is – this is a family dispute party that is in most of which is created by who knows what reasons. I don't think any of these formal reasons are mentioned, nor is the SDA's vote for the budget, because the SDA will be able to stay in power to vote for such a budget again this year, and this time probably alone if it wins, and I'm sure this time it will vote, as I don't think it is the resolution of Syria and strange things on the other side. If that happens again, you will see that there will be such situations in the future. A family dispute in a society that has led BiH for the past two years and has done nothing. It's been a year and a few days to form power, then three months to work, after that, here's six months of agony who doesn't know who he wants or who he won't with today. I am convinced that until the next election, this agony will be extended. That means nothing serious is going to happen on the tenth. It's probably gonna be a new party again in a few months, something new going on again, and I think we should all really face it together. I agree that counterpart Čović has raised several essential questions about the BiH organisation, the position of the people and I fully understand the attitudes of the people who, by number, have the smallest number of members here, and his desire to be completely... but I am not convinced that honesty will be in everything, I am not convinced. I think it's always more honest to say honestly as far as you can, what can and what's real than to promise and then to buy for nothing for a while and then to run. It is dramatic that the seven, not six, but seven, which includes some of these other parties, promised to finish, promised publicly, the leaders said they would end the implementation of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finac and that they lied, simplistically lied, and that they did nothing to anyone. And that everything now comes down to who's going to ski and how, without again a truly ideological, essential common view. I mean, as far as I'm concerned, it's pretty clear how it's gonna end. As someone from the opposition who doesn't claim I'll have my stand. My view is always that if I can cook as an opposition, but it looks like we don't even need to do it, the ruling majority cooks for themselves, so here we are just going to be a little bit more supportive, so it's okay. Thank you for the chance to say something. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1865	Thank you very much. The word was Krstan Simić, Martin Raguž, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1866	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I was further inspired by Mr Ivanic in addition to this, the importance of this topic, but since both Mr. Čović and Mr. Tihić have opened several fundamental issues through the debate, I am now reporting as a representative of course from the Croatian People's Club and also as vice president of the HDZ 1990s. So I want to say this. The questions you have raised are fundamental issues not only of this parliamentary majority but of the future of BiH. And that's why I answered my word, I won't be long, to remind us of some things. We have here a problem of the principles on which the parliamentary majority is formed, as a first question, and then we take all levels and we have a problem with the functioning of this parliamentary majority, which is just the top of the pyramid that we have today on the agenda. And those two questions we have to essentially... And secondly, the problem of functioning and forming parliamentary majority did not begin with this Council of Ministers. It began in 2000 when it was through engineering and support of one part of the international community and so on. the famous... rules and regulations should be deconstituted, delegated one people, in this case Croatian, and we see that this process continues with these or those variations. It's not just continuing, it's intensifying to this day. And dear friends, party and representative from other peoples, we must ask ourselves who and how does he participate in these processes (?). I don't want to give it to you today, but we had a chance to get past you in 2000 when it was the Alliance for Change. Try to know how he ended up, what consequences he produced for the country and..., an attempt that neither the fundamental goal of moving the will of a nation has been realized, so the continuation continued after the previous elections. And let me remind you, it's no longer about four ministries in the Federation government, not to play with numbers but to be direct. When the Washington Agreement was signed, I was in the first Federation government, then the ratio of the ministers was eight-six Bosniak-Bošnjaci-Hrvati. How big is it today, whose decisions? Today it's 11-4, it's a journey for a century. And don't let us down again whether we get one ministry or not. Here are fundamental questions whether to respect the will of one nation, another or third and here is really a question – it is not a problem in the existence of three peoples but in... that we are not ready to admit it. And the third thing I want to finish with, so we have a chance to get some lessons out of that 17-year-old post-Dayton split. I call you, on the trail of what Mr. Čović was saying, and also Mr. Tihić, you have rhetorically confirmed it, but we need to find practical strength, means to change the Constitution and the Election Law, not to interpret it to be the will of any party of the SDA, the HDZ has not run. It's not enough, we have to have guarantees constitutional and electoral. We must remove discrimination in the case of all citizens and we must equalise the rights of the constituent peoples. It's European, we have a chance here. If we keep playing the game, we'll see about that these days, and then we'll see, we'll lose time, we'll lose time, we'll stand... That's not good. That's why I plead, so that we can get the strength to put these fundamental things back into play and not tie it to personal issues, because here... a relationship with colleagues and ministers that I not only respect but also respect for what they did and how they did as well as the Party of Democracy and because of the legitimacy and esteemed representatives here, but this is about the whole problem and 18 if we're going to get the strength to open a new page or play ping pong. I think it is time to turn a new page and the way that we will act in this regard, and as a representative from the Croatian people at least I can now say on behalf of the party I represent, are the answers to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1867	Thank you very much. Krstan Simić came forward for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1868	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fully agree with Mr Čović's presentation that defined this as a political problem, not a matter of work or work, good and bad work by ministers and persons mentioned here. There's a question of what led us to it. Of course, we have been led by very frequent differences which may not have been to that extent but were already part of it, I would say freely, one-day political marketing and the desire for parties to position themselves before local elections with a better starting position. But we're where we are. Quite justifiable is the question of what has changed backwards. Two things have changed. The first thing – local elections that in one way gave new legitimacy and new confirmation to certain parties for their actions. And the other thing that everyone here doesn't mention is a new request for Mr. Bećirović's and Mr. Lagumdžija's replacement. It's a new relationship in which we need to resolve this key issue. The key issue, unfortunately, should not in any way concern the Serb people's delegates in view of the long-declared attitudes of the RS that the issue of the Federation's arrangement, the federal relations, is the issue of the Federation itself. That the issue of the executive government at the level of the Federation entity is indeed the issue of political parties that form the power. And we would be happy that after these discussions, which are likely to be yet, we would ask for a break and for someone to come and make a solution that would satisfy the representatives of all the constituent peoples of the Federation, and that we would simply support it without asking why this is like this, why is that. However, I must make one observation about Mr Raguž's exposure, though I do believe, and knowing that he did not mean it in that direction, when he mentioned the relationship in the Federal Government 8-6, today 11-6, I regret to say that the vašingtonski Agreement was without Srbin, and the Srbin were a constitutional people, an equal people and at the level of the Federation of BiH, and that relationship was in some way broken just because the representatives of the Serbian people were in one way or another representing these or those, as we often used to speak, entered the Federation government. Equality, when we talk about it, must be represented in every BiH space and therefore I don't want to think that Mr Raguž had any idea that this relationship should have been detained and that Srbin should not be a constitutional and constituent part and government in the Federation of BiH. I have to say, that puts us at a very difficult pace to vote on, because obviously this is where it's done, I'd say, by the signs of a political conflict. Supporting one... side is not good. Why? Because the support from either side raises the issue of even more strengthening the division that exists on this issue. This issue must indeed be based on a solution to the concept of BiH, which is two 19 equal entities, three equal peoples and, of course, with a guarantee of European standards to all citizens who do not belong to one of the three constituent peoples. Can we get to that? It's worth a shot. We will find it most difficult to define ourselves for this side or that side because we are aware that both sides bear many disadvantages, both sides. But what is crucial is our vote on any side will not contribute to solving this problem but rather will introduce another new reconstruction and bring to the question who is for whom, which is why he supported this option... I again underline two things have happened, which we must seriously consider in one concept, which is the support of the SDA party's voter, who here in these elections was significant, just starting from that concept that Mr Čović also made in his claim that they are articulating 90% of the Croatian people's electoral body, we now have one position that legitimacy is on the side of the SDA. So I think that in the context of all these events and relations, we should try to find a solution that will create conditions for BiH institutions, when I say BiH, to talk about institutions at all levels of government, to work for the benefit of BiH citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1869	Thank you very much. The replica was reported first by Martin Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1870	Thank you. So, not one word, not one word between the lines, you couldn't draw that conclusion. I did not mention the position of the Serbian people, nor in the Federation, nor in the RS, nor in BiH as a whole, with either positive or other intonation, so that this was related to the position and split in the relations between the ministers of the Bosniak and Croatian peoples. And certainly some decisions have gone in the direction of confirming the constitutionality of the representatives of the Serbian people and the government of the Federation, which I welcome, and I have always welcomed, and I think that's the only way to solve things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1871	Krstan Simić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1872	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I fenced myself because I was aware that there was no objection to this finding, but 8-6 which was 14 ministers of which 8 were from the Bosniak people's order, 6 from Croatia, so some proportions that were later created were due to the need and I had no intention of editing the number and relations within the Federation in any way. And Mr. Raguž doesn't need to even think that I thought his attitude was contradictory or discriminatory compared to the Srbin in the Federation. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1873	Thank you very much. So this is Krstan Simić's injuries to the Rules of Procedure we're erasing. The word came from Vice-President Ognjen Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1874	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. As far as I know, the SDA hasn't changed its program since the moment we made this partnership the assembly of the Council of Ministers until today. And if someone didn't like that program then it makes sense that they don't like it today either. If he was acceptable to him then I guess it makes sense to him that he's still acceptable today. So this debate goes to some trial of political programs, goals, interests and so on, which don't have here at this point a place for what we're talking about. If we're about that, then I really don't know what to decide. I didn't have any ambitions or anyone from the SDS or even the '90s. to choose other peoples, other citizens of politics, parties, programmes and other things. Of course, it's a matter of political taste and responsibility that you're going to cooperate with, but it's, I mean, from Dejton at least here, it's been several times in various stages so I don't know which party didn't cooperate with which party, and the programs stayed the same. So, if we're judging here about a stranger, I really don't know what I'd be deciding here right now. I think it would be irresponsible to say anything in terms of my position if I had to go back to the party's organs and the party's authorities said -- you know what, the main board thinks it's one way or another. However, if we are judging about something else, which is whether the SDA has failed, cheated, made a serious foul on the most serious political issue related to one Council of Ministers policy, then the SDA itself, despite numerous requests sent here from both this pay phone and your seats, and also from many other places, decided not to vote for the budget and to say that it is not part of the majority. And that's her decision. Niko one's driving her out of the Council of Ministers. So I agree with Mr. Čović that this is what Mr. Bevanda did... the procedure. Someone had to make a request, someone had to make a decision, exactly in the Constitution it says who, what, how, and so on. On that side, I wish I'd heard a little bit more information about whether we have most of the Council of Ministers when we do this or that and who does the majority. That would be kind of logical, but well, there's no open cards here now, okay, there's no problem with all that. So, I'd like us to know in this discussion what we're pleading on. About the SDA or the violation of an agreement that we had at some point on the table, signed six leaders. When we know that, then we'll know, Mr. Simić, what is the new legitimacy of the SDA. For half a year, the U.S. led one policy on its own, past other parties, stuck her finger in the eyes, had some attitudes, went public with them, there was no co-ordination with federal partners, let alone with us, and got most of the citizens. Is now their electoral legitimacy to return to the Council of Ministers and continue with us or to continue that policy for which they have been given confidence. Now we won't even decide here, it'll be decided by the SDA's main board according to what it wants in 2014. Because your gentlemen, the biggest problem is to say -- we've torn down that majority, it's not a good budget, it's not good decisions, it's not good personnel, it's against the interest of the Bosniak people, we've betrayed the SDP, what you've been saying, and then again here. This is where we need a break. I'm seriously telling you this, so here we need a break to see what's on the table first, what we're deciding on, because I knew what I was going to vote for when I got into the 21st Hall, when I heard you, better say when I heard the great locks of our minds about how to hint at what someone would vote for and that nothing after all of this is really clear. So let's take a half-hour break, I suggest we take it now, of course, after we hear a distinguished colleague named Mehmed Bradarić, so we don't deny him the right to speak, not to interrupt him, so let's see what we're talking about. When we know what we're talking about, we come back here and decide what our obligation is to decide, depending on what field we've taken and the scar to plow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1875	Thank you very much. Mehmed Bradarić came forward for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1876	I thought today's debate on this point wouldn't be, I don't even know if the Rules of Procedure lets us, I think we finished the debate last time. I thought it would be just a statement about this initiative. I have to admit that I'm a little bit, a little jealous of the delegates from the Club of Serbs and the Club of the Croats because today you really have one comedy, you can universally talk, you can... talk, but I think that the Dar has crossed the line. The SDP remains in its position, the SDP is demanding a shift very clearly for three, at least three reasons that are completely understandable. The first reason was that it was not adopted, or the SDA did not vote in favour of the budget and the gentlemen's agreement between the six was that the first to give up these strategic goals, the strategic tasks must leave the six. If there was political aesthetics and there was political consistency, the SDA would have done it. It was not realistic to expect an increase in the budget, and only for the ministries headed by SDA personnel, a significant increase in the budget. There was an increase in the budget, I think, 5%, and only in, Mr. Chairman, I congratulate you, and only in the state of BiH. In all countries the environments the budget was the same or smaller. So it could not have been expected to increase the budget precisely because of the service of the foreign debt that BiH is awaiting for the next four years to repay 2.5 billion debt, of which only 470 million interest marks. In 2009, a billion were raised, in 2010, another billion, and now this power is returning. It is therefore known who was part of the government in 2009, who was part of the government in 2010, and they had to keep that in mind when they created the budget. Thus, the SDP said that for the budget as well as everyone else, what they said other than the SDA and then it is not SDP's fault that a political crisis was created and not Zlatko Lagumdžija, the president of the SDP, is guilty because a political crisis was created. I've been listening to it raphanely these days, all the radios, TV and so on, how it's all because of Zlatko Lagumdžija and SDP. The second thing, it was a well-known parliamentary majority. Whoever changed his mind then, I don't know either... the month, would have to explain to people today why, to the citizens of BiH, he changed his mind when there was no reason for it at all. So, the SDP now has one extenuating circumstance doesn't have to explain to the citizens why we stayed the same, let those who changed their attitude and who said, here's that maybe we shouldn't. And third thing, the third thing is the Constitutional Court's decision. It was known when we talked here that the vital national interest of the Bošnjak was not compromised and that was the court, the Constitutional Court confirmed. They knew that, too, and they purposely created a political crisis that is taking place today. Therefore, this kind of political crisis is not the fault of the SDP and is not the fault of Zlatko Lagumdžija. 22 Therefore, to end really this one tyrado of some kind, which is a long boring story of which absolutely no one has any use for, citizens have no use, I don't know about political agreement of political leaders, maybe until an hour ago that we knew, here you see... maybe we don't know anymore, something's changed, but please let's make that decision today, even if it was black and for SDP. At least the SDP from today or tomorrow, and I don't want to talk about the reasons for tomorrow's shift requests, that's where people will talk tomorrow, let's just finish this story. I'm not sure if this composition would go any further to do anything to me, especially when it comes to these decisions, the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci and so on. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1877	Okay, thank you very much. I'm giving, at the request of the Srbin Club, so, no, I'm taking a half-hour break from the College. [[PAUZA]] Here we continue the session of the House of People at this third item of the agenda. He was looking for a vice-president. There's no need to, now I've talked to him, that nothing particularly comes out after the break. The situation, here I am on the display no more reported for this agenda point. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1880	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I was just waiting to see if they were exhausted, or if the debate was concluded on this point, and I would ask for a 10 minute break on behalf of the Croatian People's Club before the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1881	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1882	Five, ten, what do you estimate?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1883	Thank you very much. A break in, what, five minutes. 23 [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the session. The break was for Borjana Krišto. Is there anything you need to do?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1885	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1886	Okay. So, is anyone else answering for a word? He's not answering. You see, then we'll have to approach the vote within the meaning of Article 78. Rules of Procedure. The vote will be done by calling in alphabetical order. Since he is the chairman of the Bosniak people. I would ask the secretary to call the delegates of the House of Peoples and that they plead for, against or abstention, you know how it goes. _________(?) What's the reason we vote...? So you see article 78 says this – the call vote applies when the chairman himself or the motion the delegate considers necessary to remove doubts about the regularity of the vote's results. Here, I've assessed it that way and I suggest you vote that way. I mean, that's my business law. I would like to call on the secretary to do so by alphabet, since it is in the order of the Serb people, in the alphabet when they are chaired by the order of the Croatian or Bosniak people. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1888	We'll work with a roll call first. Bećirović Hasan.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1889	What are we voting for?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1890	...is meant to confirm the replacement of ministers and deputies.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1891	To the chairman's decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1892	The chairman, this, the confirmation.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1893	Yes. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1894	Bradarić Mehmed.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1895	Yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1896	Maybe it's a stenogram to make a microphone, to do a stenogram and everything, to maybe turn yourself on. You can direct. Bećirović Hasan - for. Bradarić Mehmed - for. Čović Dragan.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1897	Yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1898	The Genjac Halid.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1899	Against.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1900	Kapetanović Nermina.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1901	Against.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1902	Krešić Stjepan.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1903	Against.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1904	Krišto Borjana.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1905	Yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1906	Raguž Martin.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1907	Yes. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1908	Tihić Sulejman.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1909	Against.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1910	Vrdoljak Krunoslav.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1911	Yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1912	From Republika Srpska Ivanić Mladen.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1913	Yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1914	It's Košarac's Staša.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1915	Against.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1916	Rodić Dragutin.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1917	Against.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1918	Simić Krstan.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1919	Against.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1920	Tadić Ognjen.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1921	Yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1922	Thank you. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1923	I note that the Council of Ministers' decision has been confirmed and that the ministers of the Party of Democratic Action have been relieved of the position of the defence minister, i.e. the Minister of Security, votes 8 to 7 against. We're going to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1924	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1925	Okay, that agenda point is over, which we'll do more now. Here, Dragan answered his word. Dragan Čović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1926	Thank you very much. I picked up this part of the agenda, the form is over, but of course I have the opportunity to say what I'm about to say. In order not to repeat everything I said at the introduction, I call very clearly on all my colleagues, and on those who voted against today and those who voted in favour, that our activities of the talks with our parties that we are trying to make a parliamentary majority, in order to solve all the key problems in BiH, are over. And I therefore call on the representatives of the SDA to continue our cooperation because we will believe very quickly to have an opportunity on the same things, which is the functioning of the government at all levels in the same assembly, and this is the Roadmap, very quickly talking, and probably in the same way as the Federation Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1927	We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the financing of institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) – Proposer: Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received a report from the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. The Commission adopted the draft law with an amendment that has become an integral part of the text of the law and proposes its adoption to the House. The House of Representatives is on 26. The session, held on 19 April 2012, adopted the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions in a second reading also with one amendment. Now I give my word to the legislator, does he have any needs? 27 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1930	I don't think this law is good because if you get in a lot of places that fiscal independence won't be control over expenditures in general. Earlier in the previous system, you had a lot of institutions that had practically their own independence and then lost total control of the expenditures. That is why I think it is not good for Parliament to decide for itself but I think that Parliament's budget and everything else should be an integral part of the general budget and that is why I will be against this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1931	Okay, thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? If no one answers the word, we can approach the vote. Have him prepare for the vote. Here, 11 is in, 3 is against. I find that there is a general and entity majority and that this law has been passed. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ministries and other bodies of the Bosnia and Herzegovina administration (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is a second reading. The second reading discusses amendments and votes on the Bill's Proposal. You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The House of Representatives is at 33. The session, held on 06.09.2012, passed the law in a second reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Krstan Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1933	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1934	He doesn't want to. Now I give my word to the legislator. _________(?) 28 [[no microphone turned on]] Neither does anyone. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? We're voting on the bill. I find there's a general and entity majority. 13 for and 1 abstention. Moving to point six, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum (second reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1937	I thank the chairman. We have a report from the Commission that all delegates have received and this reflects the situation on the Commission. However, due to some controversy, I will now debate as a delegate, due to certain controversy that has emerged over the adopted amendment. In fact, this law is an extremely high-quality law, very, amongst the priority laws, and in its creation it has been quite helpful for both the European Commission and its funds, even it has been done in the context of the trining. And the law went pretty much in the direction of asylum issues and so on. comply with European binding standards, and European directives, and European standards. We are not a member, of course, but we have taken over, in fact, we have made a commitment to do the AKI takeover in accordance with the current directives, and what we are changing will be changed in a way that is compatible with AKI. This amendment, which was adopted, is contrary to one of the EU directives. In fact, the maximum holding of asylum is scheduled for 18 months. Here an exception has been made in certain situations if the face, the foreign face, is a security threat. And that is understandable for the opportunities in BiH that there is a need to assess these circumstances. However, given the need to carry out further consultations... the EU's position and the situation that needs to be reviewed, I propose that this law be postponed for the next session, that the law's statement be postponed for the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1938	Borjana Krišto. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1939	Thank you very much. Here, a fellow Genjac has now made a brief consultation. In fact, the presidents of clubs in the House of Nations may not have met in some way, we have had one meeting with the European Commission on the harmonisation of these provisions of this law with EU directives, i.e. with EU legislation. At that meeting, we agreed as club presidents that we would really take positions at our clubs that we will have right before the session today, but in the context of the bill that we have today we really appreciate, to say, certain provisions of this law priority, above all for the public order, or security of BiH, so that we all commented that this norm, or this provision of this law, which is built on for the stay of foreigners, or a person whose behaviour could in some way endanger BiH's security, is good. But by respecting EU directives, we have proposed to make another additional meeting with all members, to say to the clubs, and those who passed this law, since this law was adopted unanimously in the House of Representatives, that, if possible, we come to some agreement, in order to protect in some way the security of BiH, which is in our relations and opportunities in the first place, and then to bring the law into line with EU directives. I think at this point this withdrawal almost doesn't make any sense, because that we should have done anything we should have tabled an amendment to the Worker 24 hours before the beginning of this session. And at this point, we, too, have proposed to all the bosses, to tell the colleagues of the House of Nations, to try to take this law off the agenda, but we adopted it today, so right now here at this point, I'm telling my colleague Genjac that we almost have no sense of making a statement because we actually missed that amendment deadline so that we could intervene on the law in terms of amendments, so we're left to just make a statement about the law. I'm really sorry as it is, here's one member of that team that we haven't been able to agree that this isn't on our agenda today so we can possibly intervene. But here, in any case, I will also say the position, which I also expressed at the Club this morning, and the thinking of all members of the Croatian People's Club is also that the security of citizens must be in this relationship in BiH in the first place, and then the EU directives that we will have time to say agree on for a time to come. Thank you, so here we are with the support of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1940	Okay. The word came from Staša Košarac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1941	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Presidency. We have almost the same situation as when we passed the Wine Act. I would like to remind you that, even then, we had five to twelve European Commission initiatives that the law is not in line with European directives and we have brought that law down here. We had a situation that this law was already, a year ago, and that a year before the delegates, or MPs in the House of Representatives, had not been that law, had not appeared again. 30 I think we have no right to ignore, above all, the fact that MPs in the House of Representatives, elected by BiH citizens, have almost unanimously supported this law. The law was not only voted by those who were not present at the session or were temporarily absent from the session. It's on one side. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that the Ministry of Security gave a positive opinion on this amendment and that here I can say that the institutions at BiH level supported the law, i.e. amending and supplementing the law with the proposed amendment. In the reasons that we had with the representatives of the European Commission, we were informed that it was jeopardising, conditionally speaking, their credibility in implementing a Tvining project that cost 750,000 and we were informed that such content of the law, given the current BiH status, is not, I would say, limiting but when we get candidate status that we can then possibly through further amendments and supplementing the law, change something. I personally believe that in this country the imperative for all of us needs to be security first of all, and we all agreed that if it is not in these amendments and the additions to these, I would say under the supposed signs, clauses or such content of the amendment, that we would all have, I would say, a different view of security at the level of BiH. So, of course, at the Club today, we have considered this possibility, given that the College has not reacted in a different way and since all the amendments have expired, we will plead to the law with this amendment when we declare this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1942	Martin Raguž picked up his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1943	Thank you, Mr. President. In favour of the debates to pass this law today, just for a little while. So, the priority for BiH, as a member of the Council of Europe and a potential candidate for EU membership, at this point is its security system and BiH has the obligation to preserve the public and general interest of the state, which in no way should be treated as a step backwards until such efforts threaten the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms on the part of individuals. And the fact is, therefore, it is not a rare case that even the countries that are EU members are seeking exemption from these directives, and BiH is not yet a member. It has a priority to protect its security and in accordance with the European Convention and Protocols. At this point, I believe that this law meets all the standards to be adopted today, and as we approach the EU and how we strengthen our constitutional order and instruments, then we can also complete the completion of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1944	Okay, thank you very much. No one's answering their words anymore. We need to approach the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1945	31 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1946	Yeah, well, Halid Genjac, I didn't see it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1947	Since I see the mood of clubs and about that, as far as amendments are concerned, it's not too late because Dom can decide to extend the amendment phase, it's not a business obstacle. But seeing the mood, I withdraw this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1948	Okay, thank you very much. To approach the vote. Here, I find that there were 11, 3 abstentions for the bill, that there was a general majority and an entity majority. The law has been passed. We're going to the next item on the agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions (first reading) – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. Article 100. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. At its 33rd session, held on 06 September 2012, the House of Representatives adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions in the first reading. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1951	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll do it very briefly, since we're discussing principles, that's first reading. I just think the opposite is that this law has no basis for basic principles and compliance with BiH legislation in a section where it has tried to resolve the issue of temporary financing. I think an even bigger confusion has been introduced. And in the part that tries to resolve or define the settlement of external debt, I have the impression that these provisions are contrary to the provisions of the Central Bank Act and I therefore express a large reserve against this text of the Law. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1952	Okay. Is anyone else answering for word? Since no one's answering my question, I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Who's in? It was 8, 3 against, 2 abstentions. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the law was adopted in the first reading. We're going to the eighth day's work, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on the financing of political parties (first reading) – Proposer: Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH This is the first reading of the bill. The first is the debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. I give the word to the Proposer of the Law. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1956	I won't be long, because the last time this information was, I said, I ask you all to look at the chart on page 11 that shows that in 2009 borrowing with 4 billion and 200 in three years went to 6 billion and 600. So in three years this has increased by more than 50%. It's a dramaticly irresponsible borrowing policy, it's a complete breakdown of any control and it's an irresponsible policy towards this people and all people. This will be followed by a new follow-up, a new borrowing to pay back previous debts, and I think that, if nothing else, and then this shows where the BiH economy actually is, equally both entities, the same are there, there is no difference, a long larger social product smaller. In every normal state when that happens, the government should be confused. Because borrowing more and making, producing and creating less, it is simply not normal and I hope that, and this Information, it is high time that the debt of BiH, which consists of debts especially of both its entities, is really finally put under control, because we will have a Greek scenario, and unlike Greece, we do not have Germany and we will not have any. And then our people will suffer alone because of the inability to repay these debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1957	Okay, thank you very much. The word was received by Hasan Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1958	Well, I thank Mr. Chairman, I actually wanted to take the opportunity, although I can see that there's no interest, there's not much for these points, but we can draw a lot of conclusions from them. I want to say from this place that it's amazing that we can't even determine the internal debt of the NGO sector. This again tells us about the concept of organisation and competence within BiH, but it also tells us about another case and this amount that we have identified some 8.9 billion, that the liquidity situation in the real sector today is dramatic. That this area of life and work in BiH absolutely does not focus on any level. I am inclined to argue today that the problem of the inequitability of businesses in BiH may be one of the most important problems for the future and for the future of the real sector. And we didn't pay any attention to that problem. I will, of course, propose a few conclusions at the end of my address. The second thing that is very important is the unresponsibility of participants in the real sector about the non-discipline in the reconciliation of obligations towards the state, and even more astounding is when we see what the state is doing, that is, the state authorities in relation to such entities. Today in BiH, it is far more rewarding to be unfair, socially irresponsible, socially insensitive businessman than vice versa – fair, socially responsible and socially sensitive. Because what is happening today in our entities, because they are in charge of this economic system, because there is no jurisdiction at BiH level except for part of foreign trade and indirect taxes, turns out to encourage a business that is not in the interests of the state, but in the interests of something else. 34 And the third thing that I wanted to point out at this point is the fact that BiH is probably partly due to its constitutional legal structure, but I would say, in part, because of the non-responsibility of BiH negotiators in the process of negotiating loans with foreign creditors, it is simply unacceptable that on average 12 to 14% of loans from abroad are engaged in the real sector in the economy, and that it remains mainly in public consumption and for the recovery of already-debted debts. It is simply not possible to withstand such a structure of duty. We must be aware that the fundamental problem of the country's efficiency is the overall efficiency of the real sector and the conditions in which it works. That's why I suggest, if we have, of course, this would be given for a long and long time on everything, but I suggest we see if we have any possibility of suggesting to the competent entity bodies that the law be amended in terms of collecting state taxes from the point of view of preventing evasion and ejaculation and categorizing these violations in a far away way, I would say, more serious violations, and even criminal acts, even though we do now, but it's not being carried out. Because today, in BiH, the successes are those who manage to deceive either the state or the workers or the suppliers, and they are the most successful who cheats on all three of these. In such settings, the country cannot go forward. This simply must be prevented, and we must introduce certain discipline. And secondly, perhaps we should initiate an amendment to the Financial Business Act from the liquidity point of view. We must ensure that at least the public sector has a certain responsibility to carry out its obligations within a certain deadline. And if he doesn't fulfil those obligations within a certain time limit, that's what the sanctions are for. Because this will be one of, quite concrete, these two proposals could be a very concrete contribution to fostering the country's faster economic development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1959	Since no one is answering the question anymore, these conclusions should come in writing so that they can be made known. As I understand it, the first conclusion is to amend the Tax collection Act, and the second would be that the public sector must pay its obligations. But maybe we'd better go to the next point and then we'll vote on point 9, here's until these written conclusions come up. Point 10 is, Ad. Ten. Report on the work of the Investigation Commission on both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to check the legality of the ammunition destruction process, mine-explosive means, weapons and military equipment The people's home was held at the 7th session, held on 01.12.2011, and the House of Representatives held at the 13th session, held on 10.11.2011, on the discussion of the Information on the resolution of surplus ammunition and mine-explosive assets of the Armed Forces of BiH, adopted a conclusion that the Commission was formed to investigate the overall process of destroying ammunition, mine-explosive assets, weapons and military equipment, to check the legality of the entire process and to submit a final report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. 35 You've received a report from the Bureau of Investigation. The Commission adopted the report with the findings and conclusions contained in it, and the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH proposed that under, 1. It adopted a report on the work of the Investigation Commission of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly to check the legality of the ammunition destruction process, mine-explosive means, weapons and military equipment. 2. The report, based on the work of the Investigation Commission, shall be made available to the BiH Prosecutor's Office, if requested by the Prosecutor's Office, together with adopted records and unauthorized transcripts from seven held meetings of the Investigation Commission, and materials delivered by the Ministry of Defence and the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces of BiH and the UNDP Office in Sarajevo. The House of Representatives at the 33rd session, held on 06/09/2012, adopted the report together with the conclusions contained in it. I give my word to Borjana Krišto, appointed by the Bureau of Investigation as rapporteur at the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1961	Thank you very much. Here, in fact, from these conclusions it is clear that the Joint Commission has been working on research, meaning the legality of the destruction of weapons and ammunition and delivered its findings with conclusions. In fact, the conclusions of this Joint Interim Commission are in some way only modified at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House of Representatives and they read as you have read them now, so I do not repeat them. They are, in fact, even these something special, to say, not to stand down, I see no reason why they modified it, because the conclusion of the 2nd was that the report with the documents delivered was made available to the BiH Prosecutor's Office. And of course, if the BiH Prosecutor's Office so requests all other available documentation and unauthorized texts, actually the records. So here I am, in this sense, telling this House in front of the members, namely us who worked in front of the House of Nations, that it was indeed a demanding job to do in this one commission and of course that the Commission, in accordance with its powers and powers, did one part of its work, and the other part of the work concerning legality, that is, the illegality of the process of destroying ammunition, divisions and ammunition, of course on the institutions of which it is a job, which is the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1962	I'm opening a debate. Here, Krstan Simić answered his word.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1963	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 36 I would like to refer to conclusion number two. It seems a little unnecessary and excessive to me, because whenever the D.A. asks, there's an obligation to deliver. We should have a position here or this report should be delivered to the D.A. to consider it or to delete this conclusion. Whatever the D.A.'s office wants, it has to be delivered to him. It is one obligation arising from the CAP. So we have, the rest is unsaid and I'm afraid we look a little unserious – if he asks, we'll deliver it to him. We have to deliver, they didn't want to, if they asked, and the question is whether we have an obligation to deliver immediately or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1964	Thank you very much. Anyone else answer for a word? Borjana Krišto reporting again.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1965	Here, I'll do it very briefly. Of course, that's what I said earlier that we shouldn't have at all, that's how we decided at the Committee, because it's really what my colleague said, everything the D.A.'s office has asked for, and for those things that have been done by the D.A.'s Commission and who haven't worked, so we're obliged to carry out an investigation, or to protect the legality of supplying certain data. However, in this case, the information has already been delivered. So, in parallel, however the Investigation Commission has done, other agencies, such as SIPA, such as the BiH Prosecutor's Office, are doing certain checks and are in the process of correcting the Rules of Procedure and the business procedures for the destruction. So in this case, we won't do anything special if we are now correcting these views in relation to the position of the House of Representatives. I would suggest that we accept them, and they are already, all available documentation is on the prosecution, so that, at least, we are identical and identical with the House of Representatives, if a colleague can accept that, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1966	Okay, thank you very much. Staša Košarac answered the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1967	I was a member of the investigation committee. We had a lot of work to do. We have come to some knowledge and, of course, during the Commission's own activities, we have had several dilemmas where it was clear that it was necessary for the competent institutions to give a final account of how the process of destroying ammunition, mine-explosive funds was done and so on. and whether there was an irregularity. On the recently held Commission, we also saw that, when it comes to the sale of surplus weapons, there are certain ambiguities. I am afraid that if we rely only on some investigative authorities, that in doing so, this Parliament does not deliver it to the BiH Prosecutor's Office and that we will be spinning around in circles. I think it's much better for Parliament to deliver to the D.A. what 37 came to the Commission's work, than to wait for someone to call, because the truth is that the processes were conducted, that SIPA was doing its part of the job, that the prosecution was doing its part of the job, but the epilogue didn't know any of us. And I think that, in the end, what the Commission has come up with would certainly help BiH-level justice institutions and others, to speed up this process, to finally through their partial work and to respond to many of the dilemmas that exist today in BiH. Thank you. And I'm ready to say, what Mr. Krstan Simić said about correcting the conclusion here... And in the end, I don't know if it's according to the Rules of Procedure, I think it is, if it's necessary to go to the alignment and formation of some committees around the alignment, I don't see that there's any problem to do that, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1968	Anyone else answer for a word? He's not answering. Here, we have a proposal from the Commission that would be identical to what was adopted at the House of Representatives. Shall we vote on this proposal first? Please, let's approach the vote. To avoid this alignment, we'll lose time all, commissions, one, the other. Maybe what Borjana suggested would still be in the same text. Here's a good one. Here's a Krstane.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1969	I saglasan with the proposal, and it doesn't oblige us to... or conclude that this is being forwarded to the D.A.'s office, so let the D.A. decide what they want and what they want. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1970	Let's approach the vote. Please allow it to be voted. Here, we had 13 for one abstention. We can conclude that this report was adopted with the conclusions as proposed. To return to this previous point – Information on the state of BiH's public debt on 31.12.2011. We have suggestions for Mr Hasan Bećirović's conclusions. Under one, it is proposed that the competent national authorities of entities, in accordance with their powers to amend the Law, provide greater responsibility for the reconciliation of the financial obligations of companies, particularly in the area of mutual claims, reconciliation of obligations towards workers and commitments towards the budget and out-of-budget funds. All in order to improve liquidity in the country. I believe I read it right, it's a little handwriting. Can we adopt this conclusion? We vote first on the conclusion. We have 10 for, versus 3, 1 abstention. There's a general majority, there's no entity majority. 38 There is no Ognjen, we will leave for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1972	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1973	Okay, we'll leave this for the next session. We're moving to 11. Dot.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1974	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1975	We can vote on information, at least adopt information, if it is, let this conclusion remain. Can we? Please prepare to vote for Information. The vote is 13 against no one, abstention 1. There's a general and entity majority. So it's adopted, it's received this information. We leave the question of the conclusion for the next session. Now, on the agenda of today's session, once again giving consent to ratification of agreements and conventions. I propose that we bring together the debate on granting consent to ratify the agreements and conventions referred to in points 11 to 18, including item 18 of the agenda. I'm opening a debate. Who's up for a proposal like this? Please, let's vote on unification. We're all up for this proposal. So of the 14 present, 14 for. The proposal was passed. Ad. 11. - 18. Granting consent
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1978	39 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-10-22-0.u1979	No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? No Niko answered for the word. We vote on granting consent to ratifying the agreements and conventions referred to in points 11 to 18, including item 18 of the agenda. Please make it possible to vote. Present 14 - for 14, against no one, abstentioned none. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreements and conventions referred to in points 11 to 18, including item 18 of the agenda. This concludes the meeting of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much. Session completed at 3:10 p.m.
