ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1162	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, international institutions, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 13 envoys present, 4 of them from the Bosniak people, 5 from the Croatian people and 4 from the Serb people. Mr. Mladen Ivanić justified it, for justified reasons, not being able to attend the session, and Mr. Sulejman Tihić will be there in a few minutes, so we agreed to take a meeting like this. For the 14th session of the House of Peoples, I propose the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 13th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Answers to envoys' questions and envoys' questions; 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH Institutions (second reading) Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2/12 of 11/01/2012; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-3/12 of 11 January 2012; 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposer: Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, Law No: 01,02-02-1-27/11 of 29.12.2011; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (first reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-10/12 of 1602/2012; 7. Reports on the work of the Committees of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2011: (a) Constitutional Commission, (b) Committee on Finance and Budget, (c) Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Communications, 8. Reports on the work of the joint committees of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2011 (a) Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH, 2 (b) Joint Committee on Oversight of BiH Security Agency, (c) Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development, (d) Joint Committee on European Integration, (e) Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, (f) Joint Committee on Human Rights, Children's Rights, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 9. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Employment of returnees", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 02/3-16-1-278/12 since 27.02.2012; 10. Report by the Office for the Review of BiH Institutions on the subject: "The Management of Costs of Employment and Accommodation of BiH Institutions", material of the Office for the Auditing of BiH Institutions (Adjustment of Reports), number 02/3-16-11203-11/11 of 16 January 2012; 11. Report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2011 and Plan of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2012, materials number: 01,02-50-19-151/12 and 01,02-50-19-151/12 since 01.02.2012; 12. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes to implement the European Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdić and Finc v Bosnia and Herzegovina, material number: 01,02-50-14/12 since 13/03/2012; 13. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, material number: 01,02-50-19-306/12 of 29.02.2012; 14. Report on the work of Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary military commissioner for 2011 - material number: 01.02-05/3-50-19-303/12 since 29.02.2012; 15. The request of envoys Dragan Čović, Sulejman Tihić and Ognjen Tadić to consider the Rules of Procedure's proposal for additions to the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Nations; 16. Consider the extension of the term of office to the members of the Board of Directors of BHRT; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the reading of persons staying without authorisation, the material of the BiH Presidency, No. 01.02-50-2-343/12 of 09.03.2012; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Technical Arrangement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the State Department of the United States of America to assist in the destruction of light weapons/light weapons and various types of ammunition, materials of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-351/12 of 12.03.2012; 19. Giving consent to ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on contact with children (ETS 192), the BiH Presidency material, issue: 01,02-05-2-367/12 of 14.03.2012; 20. Giving consent to ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse (ETS 201), material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-368/12 of 14.03.2012; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on International Law on Child Support and Other Forms of Family Support, materials of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2369/12 since 14/03/2012; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement under the IPA 2009 State Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina - Improving the infrastructure of the regional basic transport network in BiH - rail transport, between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European 3 Investment Bank, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-217/12 since 23.03.2012; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Unicredit Bank Austria AG - Project "Building the sewerage and water supply of the municipality of Celic", material of the BiH Presidency, number: 01,02-05-2-418/12 since 23.03.2012; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan, Financing and Project Treaty between KfW, Frankufrt in May, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury (loaning) and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, and Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska, and JP Elektroprivreda BiH d.d. Sarajevo (EPBiH) and JP Elektroprivreda Hrvatska zajednica Herceg Bosnia d.d. Mostar (EPHZBiH) and JP Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska d.d. Trebinje (EPRS) for 17,000,000.00 euros - SCADA/DMS/OMS at the distribution level, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-437/12 since 28.03.2012; 25. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty on Finance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank - Emergency aid in the event of flooding and prevention - A, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-436/12 since 28.03.2012: 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Liechtenstein on the establishment of a migration partnership between BiH and Liechtenstein, the BiH Presidency's material number: 01,02-05-2-438/12 of 28.03.2012; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No 1 to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank 26. November 2009 in Sarajevo - Credit IRBS for small and medium-sized enterprises (FI 25.254), BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-454/12 since 30.03.2012; 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Communications and Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry of Transport, the Maritime and Telecommunications of Montenegro and the Ministry of Public Works and Transport of the Republic of Albania for the reconstruction and modernisation of the Sarajevo-Pogorica-Tirana road (R2b), the material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-452/12 since 30.03.2012; and 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the Centre for Security Co-operation - RACVIAC, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-450/12 since 30.03.2012. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Any word from anyone? Are there any changes and additions to the agenda? As far as I can tell, it's gone. If there are no amendments and amendments to the agenda and no votes shall be adopted, in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much. Moving to point 1 of today's agenda Ad.1. The adoption of the minutes of the 13th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1166	Gentlemen chairman, respected colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, guests, good afternoon to all, I have an intervention on two delegate issues. The first was about nepotism in BiH institutions and it was explained there in, I asked that the Joint College of the two homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly find the modality of determining nepotism because I cited the reasons. And it says here that the Joint College of both home initiatives has not accepted. I am sorry, I will not be boring, especially I will respect this new Rules of Procedure, which we are considering today under point 15, but surely this remains a problem and I believe that, if nothing else, NGOs or that the centres of investigative journalism or I don't know who, I will talk about this problem, and I will help them all the time. And an intervention to another question. At the 13th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly held on 29.02.2012, I asked the following delegate question to the Management Board of indirect taxation and the Directorate for indirect taxation and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH, which reads - The Law on the Budget of BiH institutions for 2007 prescribed the investment of border crossings for 2007, and it is possible that the investment can be made out of income based on the use of customs terminals achieved above the incomes of this Law and up to 5.000 marks. Investment priorities are the border crossings of Bosnia Gradiška - Gorica - Južlibic. The decision on the level of investment shall be taken by the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Administration. I received an answer from the Hope Committee of the Directorate for indirect taxation on the transfer of funds for these three border crossings, but I did not get from the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury, whether or not the answer, whether these funds were spent on those purposes. I don't have the information that they are, and here I am looking for an addition to this answer, of course in writing. That's five.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1167	Thank you, Mr. Bradarić. A colleague, Bećirović, applied for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1168	I thank Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I'm actually thinking, I was thinking whether to comment at all, because the efficiency of the response by the Council of Ministers is such that our delegate issues become somewhat deplaced. And in that sense, I might suggest to the Joint College that a little and business provisions on that matter be looked at. Because definitely, if you don't get a four or five-month answer to the envoy's question, then I don't see the purpose of any such questions. The questions I asked the finance and vault ministry, these were four issues, related to the application of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions. I'm not happy with the answers. And I ask that all four questions be answered again specifically as the questions have been asked. The general answers, the phraseology in the answers is not necessary, the questions are very precise and I ask exactly that kind of answer to these questions. And secondly, it is amazing that the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations did not get an answer to the question asked at the 8th session. And the issue is about BiH's activities to regulate relations between BiH, Croatia and Serbia, and about the use of jointly built energy facilities and hydroaccumulation in BiH territory. I'd really like to get the answer to that question or the Ministry tells me there's no answer to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1169	Thank you, colleague Bećirović. The next one checked in with a colleague, Krešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1170	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased with the response to the envoy's question, and today I will ask a new envoy's question. So in the last term, the Federal Parliament has made a decision on the course of Corridor 5c, meaning the highway on this Corridor, and also for the South Part of the Highway since the border crossing with the Republic of Croatia, means Bijaca-Methković 2 to Mostar, that route has also been established. Lately, under quotes, the route has been disputed by a group of citizens and has been complicated around the course at two points. So two points of transition are disputed, the southern bridge crossing at the Holiday and the point at Blagaja. At the request of locals or groups of citizens to change the route, the 6 Federation government has offered a new route that is disputed for technical reasons and is disputed by both local community and county. Following this, Resolute Minister Hadžić, I see he has conducted consultations and according to the information we have from the media, that the disputed part has been resolved. So my question is, I'm interested in the content of the Secretary-General's agreement with the local community. As is known, Corridor 5c and Corridor Adriatic-Ionian match in the length of about 23 km, the same section means from the border crossing from Croatia to the crossing across the Neretva bridge between Počilac and Capljina. My envoy's question is - If you move the Corridor 5c and cross the Neretva, then put the bridge north above the Holidays, at which location will the Corridor of the Adriatic-Ionian cross the Neretva River? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1171	Thank you, colleague Krešić. I didn't interrupt you when you crossed the line that you were satisfied with the question. ...answer, we've now moved on to new questions, so my question is now to my colleague Kapetanović. Does your application refer to the answer to the previously asked question, because you have not established or is this a new question already asked?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1172	New question.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1173	Thank you very much. Can we then conclude with previous questions and this act means we are moving on to new envoy issues. The next one checked in with a colleague, Bradarić. There you go, buddy Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1174	I have one question and one initiative. The initiative is the Regulation on the conditions and procedure of issuing the driver's qualification cards for carrying out international road traffic,... entered into force on 01.01.2012. It is an act that many believe occurred under very strange circumstances and the final version of the Regulation was not accepted by members of the Federation Working Group or the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH. I propose an initiative that the BiH Minister of Transport and Communication determines the harmfulness of the implementation of this unconstitutional and non-implementable act, which is still contrary to the Law on International and Inter-entity Transport and proposes a new regulation acceptable to all in BiH. And another question. I have asked for the status of Mr. Vjekoslav Vuković, assistant minister for the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug abuse at the Ministry of Security 7 BiH, who returned to his post after an inadmissible verdict and afterwards experience some compromise. And not related to that, I am asking about these two -- on the basis of which first, on what legal basis has the BiH Security Minister reached a solution on the return of Vjekoslav Vuković to daily affairs and tasks? And second - How can Vjekoslav Vuković ever meet the requirements of this very important management post at the Ministry of Security without permission to access classified information? Of course in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1175	Okay. Thank you, colleague Bradarić. Next, a colleague, Krišto, checked in. kolegica Krišto, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1176	Thank you, well-respected chairman, vice-president, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, guests, members of the Council of Ministers, I welcome you all, before I ask the envoy's question you will allow me, because we are in the week between the Great and the mali Vaskrs, so let me, on behalf of the Croatian Envoys Club, wish all these present members of my colleagues and colleagues a happy Easter blessing and every good thing to them and their families. And now I'd like to move on to the envoy's question and I have two envoys' questions. My first question was addressed to High Representative Valentin Inck in BiH. And that is to say - Dear, regarding your order of 27 March 2011 which temporarily suspended certain decisions of the Central Election Commission of BiH, as well as all procedures relating to the abovementioned decisions taken at their 21st session held on 24 March 2011 by an independent, professional and sole body for the implementation of the elections, and since you are under the authority to build BiH as a legal and democratic state, for the sake of general and legal certainty and return of citizens' trust in the BiH legal system, I ask you the following question - When will your order on the temporary suspension of decisions of the Central Election Commission of BiH be put out of effect, in order for the decisions of the Central Election Commission of BiH to be eligible? With respect. My second envoy's question is addressed to the BiH Agency for Investigation and Protection, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and the Federation of BiH Prosecutors, and it says - Because these days the public is upset with the existence of certain knowledge, and the fact of the illegal spending of budgets throughout the Federation of BiH, the concrete distribution of agricultural incentives from the Federation's budget, and given the daily enquiries of citizens, my obligation as an envoy is to ask the following question - Are the competent institutions familiar with this and whether concrete measures and activities have been taken in accordance with your powers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1177	Thank you, colleague Krišto. The next one checked in with his colleague, Košarac. Here Košarac go, pal. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1178	Thank you, Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, I would like to welcome you and I would like to ask the delegate's question to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. It reads - What Council of Ministers of BiH as co-founder of the Institute for the Search for Missing BiH is doing to implement the Law on Missing Persons of BiH? Noting that the Law provided for the establishment of the central records of missing persons, which should have been implemented already in 2009, and that the central records of missing persons were not established, that the bodies of the Missing Persons Institute were illegal, because most members of the Institute's Management Board had expired, that the composition of the Institute's Supervisory Board for Missing Persons was not complete, that only representatives of the two nations were participating in its work and that the overall process of finding the missing persons of BiH was slow, partial and politicised. Of course, I would like to point out that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has asked the Resort Ministry, which is the Ministry of Human Rights, to initiate the procedure for the election of the new Management Board of the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH, and that this is not done, we are in a very complex and complex situation. On the other hand, I have the right to say that it seems to me that the other co-founder, which is the ICMP or the International Bureau for the Search for Missing, is significantly dominant in relation to the other co-founder, which is the Council of Ministers, and we have adequate information that the ICMP will leave BiH in 2013, and that this issue will remain in BiH, the character of openness. I therefore believe that the Council of Ministers as co-founder of the Institute for the Search for Missing Persons in BiH must play a significantly greater role in these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1179	Thank you, colleague Košarac. The next one was registered by a colleague, Kapetanović. Here you go, fellow Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1180	Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have three delegate questions. My questions have been asked to the Council of Ministers. First question - What does it mean to establish a new coordination for European integration when the Council of Ministers Act, Article 23 clearly defines what the role of the Directorate for European Integration is, because we know that the more detailed responsibility of the Directorate for European Integration in this context is defined in the Law on Ministrys and Authorities of Administration, Article 18(3) and the Decision establishing the Directorate for European Integration. Does the establishment of a new coordination system mean the establishment of three Directorates of European Integration, as announced in a "Freedom" statement yesterday by Minister Željka Cvijanović? What are the advantages of such radical changes? It is necessary to request that models be examined before they are adopted, that relevant experts from this area be made known and that practices of other countries be consulted. What mechanism will be introduced to address any problems and possible blockades when there is a difference in opinion at different levels of government and whether the speed of decision-making that is crucial in the EU and in business related to it is taken into account when proposing a future structure? This is in the context of a constant emphasis on the issue of European business coordination. The second question - The entity's jurisdiction over legislation means that these laws will be harmonised at the entity level. It's in accordance with the Constitution. But what happens if two entities do not adopt the law in the same form. If the penalty for an infringement in one entity is set to level X, and in the second to level Y, and both laws are harmonised with the EU and its legislation, because the EU directives give the possibility to apply in some ranges, does this mean that we will have legal uncertainty within the country? In the language of the people - what if one entity prescribes that the pattern on the car tire should be 5 deep, and the other entity 6 mm, will we change the tires on Vlasic when we leave Sarajevo in Banja Luka? Does the future coordination structure mean working together to achieve identical solutions or are we going to work each and every one of our entities and how do we like it? This is a real danger because the EU prescribes the most frequent minimum and range of applications, and only rarely requires strict application of the forms, which must be copied into domestic law. What will be done in the country in the coordination system so these cases don't happen? My third question - Is the Directorate for European Integration humane and professionally trained to carry out all integration activities? Does he have enough budget? Is the personnel filled? What about education for all who need to work on BiH joining the euro with Atlantic integration? This issue in the context of a better understanding of the professional and any other skills and equipment of those who should be the leaders of the integration process. The question is, are we just declarative to the EU, and we are not essentially making it impossible for this job to be done properly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1181	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. A colleague, Rodić, applied for the debate. Here's a colleague of Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1182	Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the deputy, ladies and gentlemen, my question will be addressed to the Council of Ministers, and it says - Great Individence, or so on. Each one's debts, according to some estimates in BiH, exceed 20 billion KM, which is one of the biggest problems of domestic economy. What is the problem with BiH's insolvency and the fact that over 26,000 BiH firms have a blocked account, and many are forced to raise loans at unfavourable interest rates due to the maintenance of the current liquidity. At the same time, huge money is spent on imports of various types of goods, and most of the jobs within BiH are being compensated. My question is - How does the Council of Ministers see a solution to this issue and what measures does it intend to take in this direction, because of the overall growth of industrial production and job conservation and the creation of new employment conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1183	Thank you, fellow Rodić. 10 Did a colleague, Raguž, sign up? Here you go, Comrade Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1184	I thank Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I have one representative question for the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Finance of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which refers to the steep drop in BiH's credit rating. And before I explain this question, and on the trail of some debates of distinguished colleagues on how the Council of Ministers responds and reacts to our parliamentary issues, I would like to encourage us all together not to give up and take advantage of a special occasion in the fifth month when there will be a joint session of both homes and the Council of Ministers in front of the public and to further check some things out of the responsibility of the representatives. So my question concerns the decline in ratings according to the results published by Moodys BiH two weeks ago, a reduced credit rating from B2 to B3, and BiH in this regard was placed on observation with the real option of further decline in ratings. According to the BiH assessment, there is only one step to entering zone C where countries are in bankruptcy that no one wants to invest in, the situation is now in Greece. This rating is definitely the worst in the entire region and is among the worst in the world. Although there is something different from the opinion of each other, Standard and Purs, which confirmed the previous credit rating, which continues to remain in the B category, cited the formation of the Council of Ministers and slightly more favourable political circumstances, objectively financial institutions and those who give money, are always handled by worse, worse grades. I find this position BiH is alarming. And that's why I'm asking the Minister and the Ministry of Finance -- is there a strategic response prepared by the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers to stop this negative trend? The consequences of this negative trend are particularly unfavourable, primarily the inability to invest seriously in BiH, the marked increase in unemployment, the increase in interest paid by all citizens remains overall uncertainty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1185	Thank you, Comrade Raguž. The next one checked in with a colleague named Vrdoljak. Here you go, colleague Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1186	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I asked a question at the 8th session of the House of Peoples that is very practical, so it's not theoretical. Some fellow Bećirović touched a similar problem. Namely, I asked the question - What is done at BiH level when it comes to Lake Busko, i.e. the use of hydropotentials by the Republic of Croatia located in BiH? I didn't get the answer. However, I must admit that I didn't even ask the answer in order to get an answer. Because something, especially for me, that answer isn't even important, but I've asked him to initiate some things to try to do something with, because it's our Canton space, Lebanon is somewhere less than 20% of BiH's space, and it's extremely important that this issue is resolved, for that space of the Lebanon Canton. I would now ask another question, again with the intention to initiate some solutions, that is the question of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations - So, is there any contract between the 11th Republic of BiH and the Republic of Croatia on the use of the Busko Lake hydropotential for the production of electricity by the Elektroprivreda hrvatska? If not, what document regulates mutual relations? I note, at the 8th session, I found that the minimum amount lost by the two municipalities, therefore the local community, is more than 15,000,000 marks. And I don't think it's a solution not to take any steps at BiH level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1187	Thank you, colleague Vrdoljak. This, as far as I can see, we have exhausted new envoys' questions, and that concludes the point of today's 2nd agenda. We're moving on to point three. Ad.3. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH Institutions, Second Reading, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH As this is a second reading, there is a debate on amendments and a vote on the bill's proposal. You have received a report from the Finance Committee and the budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission has accepted the bill and is proposing to the House its adoption. At the 23rd session, held in 1602, the House of Representatives adopted the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH Institutions. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if anyone from the Council of Ministers is present, authorized to do this? There's no need. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? As far as I can tell, there are no reports. Thank you very much. That concludes the possibility of a debate. So, we're starting the voting procedure on the bill proposal. At present 14, - for proposal 14, versus 0 abstentions. Federation of BiH – 10 all for, RS – 4, all for. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. The law, I find the Law amending the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH institutions has been adopted. Thank you very much. We're moving to item four of today's agenda. Ad.4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions, Second Reading, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1190	In the Committee for the Consensus of Texts, on this item of the agenda, in front of the Club of Croatian Envoys, I propose Mr. Mrtin Raguž Ruguž. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1191	Thank you. Comrade Rodić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1192	Here in this Commission for Text Matching, in front of the Serbian People's Club, we propose Mr. Staš Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1193	Thank you. Mr. Genjac, fellow Genjac, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1194	Mr. Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1195	Thank you. Thank you very much. Here we have proposals from colleagues Raguž, Košarac, Bećirović and I will ask to initiate voting procedure for this commission. Thank you very much. Attending 14, for -14, against and abstentioned. Federation of BiH – 10, all for, RS – 4, all for. The general and entity majority exist. I agree, members of the Joint Committee for the Consensus of the text of the Law of the House of Nations were appointed Mr Raguž, a colleague of Košarac, a colleague of Bećirović. Thank you very much. Crossing point five of today's agenda. Ad.5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, second reading, Proposer of the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs As this is a second reading, we will hold a debate on amendments and vote on the bill's proposal. You have received a report from the Finance Committee and the budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission has accepted the bill and is proposing to the House its adoption. At the 24th session, held on 15.03 this year, the House of Representatives passed the Law on Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Refunds of BiH Institutions. Now I give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if there is any need? No need, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Does anyone sign up? As far as I can tell, there's no interest in the debate. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. And we're running the voting procedure on the bill proposal. Thank you. At present 14, for – 10, v 3, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – 6 for, 3 against, 1 abstention, RS – 4, all for. Given that the entity's majority exists, the general majority exists, I find that the Law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions has been adopted. Thank you very much. 14 We move on to the sixth day of the agenda. Ad.6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, first reading, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1201	Thank you. I know that this issue has long been tripaditically decided, so the Fund for Returns, the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and the Commission responsible for Refugees participated in the implementation of joint projects has increased, so responsibility for non-GodBogknowing resolutions is difficult to address. In the period from 2006 to 2010, 2,117 housing units were reconstructed and three joint projects were implemented. Several of them are in the implementation phase and one of them, not even touched, means in the period 2006-10, so in 2011 and here in 2012 are the old projects. The new projects are almost gone and no housing unit is restored at the expected time of implementation, which is 360 days. 95%, as it says here in the information, 95% of the housing units of recovery and reconstruction have been completed in a thousand days, only a thousand and more days, and perhaps that's precisely the reason for one complete uncertainty of the returnees. We have data there that every fourth refurbished housing unit, that each fourth renovated housing unit is not inhabitable, etc. Therefore, despite the fact that the 2010 Strategy and the Revised Strategy, the identification of the authorities has been established to strengthen efforts to reconstruct housing units from returnees and refugees, an analysis of the system of implementation that we have here and which the Office has done, it has shown and identified 17 extremely poor results in the plan of efficiency and effectiveness. I know that four of the most significant elements were involved in this joint reconstruction project of housing, which was the Return Commission, which was working on decisions on the merger and distribution of financial resources. Then the local community that worked on the implementation of these projects, and then the Return Fund that was in charge of financial realisation, which includes the conclusion of a contract with selected suppliers and performers and supervision. Oversight was carried out by ministries, carried out by the Council of Ministers and Parliament, both parliaments. And it is Parliament's responsibility that the process of implementation or formation, the appointment of the Commission, lasted five months and look at what our responsibility is in these materials, which is that parliaments have always made too few conclusions that could result in a greater improvement in efficiency and efficiency, all of these programmes. And the reason is the lack of information on the problems in this area, so the parliaments are found guilty because they didn't ask for it, because they didn't ask for it. To avoid us or this year or the following years, someone objected to the same thing, criticized us, I have made an effort to obtain documented information about dishonest activities, criminal actions about the Return Fund and about the Director of this Fund. So this isn't any hack of the Director and the Return Fund, it's just an attempt to point out the actions that have slowed down have made it harder for people to return to their homes, who wanted it. Here I have a decision from Director Mlađen Božović who gives himself 2,000 euros for schooling, continuing schooling at the Master's Study in Novi Sad. The decision was signed only by the head of the Finance Department, so someone who's not authorized, and there's no seal. So maybe it's not some big amount of 2,000 euros, but in this case it's a matter of intention. Then he has a contract to donate a motocultivator to his brother, about 6,600 marks. It's not much of a maybe, but in this case it's important intention, so it's very easy to repeat it many times. Then I have a decision to amend the Decision, my own decision to amend Director Mlađen Božović's decision that turned the competition request into another request, or changed the decision and gave a little more money for those purposes and a very well-known last name, and I won't mention it here so I won't bid because I'm not sure he's the only one who's used himself. So then you also have a contract of suppliers signed with the local community and then you have something that Kovač Drago, probably a secretary at the Ministry of Human Rights, simply puts the contract aside and gives the firm "Nibral" to do so, etc. etc. Here you have a lot of immoral bills, buying bills, buying gloves, wine, champagne, etc. It's not on the account, it's on the Virman, it's on those arch accounts, etc. So, this is a lot of dishonest actions, and I, in this sense, can propose one or two conclusions, which is: The first conclusion – the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, requires the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, to immediately exercise control of the legality of financial resources in the Return Fund in all segments and inform the relevant institutions within no longer than 30 days. And, second conclusion – The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH requires the Council of Ministers to comply with Article 58. The BiH State Service Act, as appointing authority, immediately suspends Director Fon for Return, Mlađen Božović until the end of a special department-led criminal trial against him, and we have that, for organised crime, the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I'm not going to talk about what Mrs. Irina Lovrić wrote to us. You all got that letter. It's about a terrible mobbing, she's totally documenting it or some kind of... So this is a fight against proven corruption. I think we need to show a little bit more will to stand up to it, with what we've all been saying in delegate issues, that the problem is economics. So next to the economy, we have this crime that we have to stand up to. Here's an example I'm documenting. That's 18.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1202	Thank you very much, colleague Bradarić. A fellow Raguž. Here you go, Comrade Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1203	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I've come forward for two reasons on this report. First of all, this is a very good report. It's rare, at least I'm speaking my personal opinion now, and in that sense I certainly welcome one of these highly structured and reasoned reports that has certain recommendations. That is another reason why I have answered, and some of these recommendations also refer to the BiH Parliament. And in this sense, because of the importance of the entire return area and all return segments, and the importance of the responsible action of all institutions, from the competent ministries at state and entity level to the Return Fund, the Committee, I believe that we need today to support the conclusion, - that the House of Peoples is having a thematic debate on these issues, in light of these recommendations contained here and concerning both us and in light of the fact that a major donor conference will soon be held that opens up a new opportunity to fix some things all together. And here's my proposal was to honor this recommendation by taking on the obligation to hold one thematic debate on this topic as recently as possible, here's to, uh, propose to the College to set a date, opportunity and circumstances when it could be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1204	Thank you, Comrade Raguž. I don't see any more reports for discussion. Now I would like to ask one and another colleague, here is my colleague Bradarić, who has already done this in writing, your colleague Raguž, so that you can adopt a conclusion, try to describe him, since he is short and is invited to a thematic session, so I understand. And here by the time it comes, I suggest we initiate the voting procedure for the report. Thank you. Attending 14, for – 13, versus no one, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – 10, all for, RS – 3 for, 1 abstention. We have a general, we have an entity majority. And, I agree, the report on the impact audit carried out on the subject – The housing care of the returnees has been adopted. And now we're going to make a statement about the proposals of two colleagues. First, my colleague Bradarić, these two conclusions, I suggest that we do not read them, since my colleague Bradarić read it precisely slowly, if that's okay with you? Okay, thank you very much. I am initiating voting procedure on this proposal for a conclusion. Thank you very much. Attending 14, for – 8, abstention 6. Federations of BiH – 8 for, 2 abstentions, RS – 4 abstentions. The entity majority does not exist, the general majority exists. So, this proposal has to go to consent. 19 Let's go to the second round right now, okay. Thank you very much. No consensus in the College, we're going to the second round of voting. Thank you. At present 14, -6 for, against no one, abstentioned 8. Federation of BiH – 6 for, 4 abstentions, RS – 4 abstentions. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I find that this proposal has been adopted, fellow Bradarić. Comrade Genjac, do you have any comment on how to vote? It's just the color. Shall we do it again, do you insist? Okay, thank you. I'll ask you to pay attention to the vote. Here we go again to this voting procedure for the intervention of fellow Genjac. Thank you. Attending 14, for – 7, abstained 7. Federation of BiH – 7 for, 3 abstentions, RS – 4 abstentions. It has a general and entity majority, and I find that the proposal is adopted by two of my colleagues, Bradarić. We are now launching a voting procedure on the proposal for the conclusion of a colleague, Raguž. I also suggest that I don't read it because it was simple and clear to everyone. We're initiating voting procedure. Thematic session. Thank you. At present 14, - for 13, there is no, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – 10, all for, RS – 3 for, abstention 1. There's both a general and an entity majority. We also find that we have adopted the conclusion of our colleague Raguž. Thank you very much. That concludes point nine, today's agenda. We're going to point 10. Ad.10. Report on the work of the BiH institutions' audit on the subject – "The Management of Costs of Employment and Accommodation of BiH institutions", material of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office (correction of Reports) You have received a report from the Finance Committee and the budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission accepted the report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The commission unanimously adopted the following conclusion, and proposed that it adopt it to the House of Peoples: The Council of Ministers of BiH urges the Committee of Finance and Budgets and the conclusions of the House of Peoples to deal with the issue of BiH institutions in Sarajevo, Banja Luka, Mostar, as well as other places, as well as the findings and recommendations made by the Office for Auditing the Institutions of BiH, in a hasty manner, to save huge budget funds currently allocated to the lease of work space and accommodation for BiH institutions. I give my word to the Reporter if there's any need? No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. As far as I can tell, there's no interest. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. 20 We vote on, excuse my colleague Kapetanović. Here you go, fellow Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think, given the fact that BiH is at a very bad economic moment, that we still need to appreciate the efforts of the Head of the Impact Review Department, we welcome this report. The effort they have made is exceptional, given the absence of co-operation by all institutions and the difficulty of gathering information. I think that today's House needs to pay attention once again to the seriousness of the situation in which BiH is located, that the institutions that rent office premises did not really take care of the more efficient and economic use of lease funds and did so without systematic and organised access, without the intention of finding opportunities to use state property. It is therefore very positive that the activities taken by the State Property Commission are taking from all institutions and collecting information on the necessary space, but I regret that the data have not passed the harmonisation procedure within the State Property Commission. I therefore welcome the presentation of possible savings. It is not insignificant even to this sum, in terms of reduction, if each institution would reduce the lease price by just one KM per meter squared, that the annual savings would be 200,000 marks, or if the leased area per employee per square meter would be reduced to 160.00 dark. It's not a small amount of money. In particular, their proposal to reduce the leased area, from an average of 17m square feet per employee to 12, or 8m square meters per employee, savings from a million or two, million or two million KMs annually, are neither negligible nor irrelevant to BiH. And I think from that point of view you should appreciate what the colleagues of the Impact Review Department have done. So we need to remind again the Council of the Minsitarians here from this House, that they can be saved in terms of organized leases at the administrative centres. These are very many, even in the vicinity of BiH's central institutions, and therefore the possibility of moving to the city's zones should be considered. Well, it doesn't even have to be centralized in the strict center of Sarajevo, where the lease is very expensive. So there's a possibility of creating savings. So what you said, Mr. Chairman, is therefore a problem due to the lack of a strategy on the problem of resolving the accommodation of BiH institutions, it confuses the fact that rules and standards of purchase have not been drawn up so far, and imposes the need for the necessary production so far, and strategies and rules, standard rules and framework standards as a guideline for economic procurement. The use of state property as an opportunity to create savings is also a very good mechanism, and I want to try to give support to the proposal that you just said, that representatives of this distinguished House, according to the Council of Ministers, are making an urgent request for strategy and creation, I apologize, and implementation of a strategy to address BiH institutions' accommodation issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1207	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. 21 Behold, now we see that there are no more reported. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote on the report. At present 14, for -14, against and abstention means no. Federation of BiH - 10, all for, RS - 4, all for. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I agree with the report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office on the subject: "The management of the cost of employment and accommodation of BiH institutions" has been adopted. Now we're going to vote on the commission's conclusion. Attending 14, for -14, against and abstentioned no one. From the Federation of BiH - 10, all for, RS - 4, all for. The general and entity majority exist. I conclude the conclusion of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. Thank you very much. That concludes this agenda point. Moving to point 11, Ad. 11. Report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structures for 2011 and Plan of the Independent Committee's work as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structures for 2012 You have received the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission accepted the report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structures for the past year and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structures for this year, and proposed their adoption to the House. At the 24th session, held on 15.03 this year, the House of Representatives adopted the report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structures for the past year and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structures for 2012. I give my word to Borjana Krišto, if necessary, if necessary, colleagues Krišto, if necessary, who was appointed by the Joint Commission for the Pronunciation at the House of Peoples session.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1209	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1210	Thank you, colleague Krišto. I give my word to the Reporter if there's any need? As far as I can tell, it's gone. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? As far as I can tell, there's no interest. I'm closing the debate. 22 We are voting on the adoption of the report on the work and work plan of the Independent Committee as an independent body of the police structures of BiH. Attending 13, for -12, versus - no one, abstention - 1. Federation of BiH – 9 for, 1 abstention, RS – 3 for. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I find the report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH police structures for 2011 and the Independent Committee's work plan as an independent body of BiH police structures for this year have been adopted. Thank you very much. I'm closing this agenda. We're going to point 12, Ad. 12. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission on both homes to implement the European Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdić and Finc v Bosnia and Herzegovina The temporary joint commission of both homes for the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdić and Finc v Bosnia and Herzegovina on the subject of the conclusions of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses in the continuation of the work of the Committee adopted at the 9th session of the House of Peoples held on 28.12. last year and at the 16th session of the House of Representatives held on 22.12. of last year, the report on work for the period 05.01. to 12.03. this year with the following conclusions: 1. The temporary commission in the work so far has not achieved any degree of consent needed to propose an amendment to the BiH Constitution. 2. The House believes that the Interim Commission should continue to work on finding the solutions needed to implement the rulings in line with the suggestions and decisions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. At the 24th session, of 15.03, the House of Representatives adopted the Report of the Interim Joint Commission on both homes for the implementation of this verdict. I'm opening a debate. Any comments? I don't see any interest in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Report with the conclusions of the Interim Joint Commission on both the homes of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So, the report and the conclusions. Present 13, for - 13, versus and abstentioned no one. Federation of BiH – 10, all for, RS – 3 all for. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I agree with the report with the conclusions of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes for the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg has been adopted. Thank you very much. 23 We move to the point of today’s 13th agenda, Ad. 13. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the Citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1213	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1214	Thank you very much, colleague Krišto. I give the word to the Reporter. As far as I can tell, there's no need. Thank you very much. I'm opening a hearing about this report. There's no interest in the debate. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the adoption of this report. At present 13, for -13, there are none against and abstentions. Federation of BiH – 10, all for, RS – 3 all for. The general majority exists. The entity majority exists. I agree that the 2011 report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has been adopted. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, Ad. 14. Report on work by Bosnia and Herzegovina's parliamentary military commissioner for 2011 You have received the opinion of the Joint Defence and Security Committee for BiH. The commission has accepted the report. At the 25th session, held on 29th of this year, the House of Representatives adopted a report with conclusions. I give my word to my colleague Vrdoljak, appointed by the Joint Commission as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1216	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1217	There's no need. Thank you. 24 I give word to the Reporter. Is there a need? There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. A colleague, Krišto, applied for a hearing. Here you go, pal Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1218	Thank you very much, Here I am indeed a member of the Joint Defence and Security Committee, and I thought that through the report my colleague would say, I have come forward, and of course as an envoy here, that the Military Commissioner's report still deserves us to say something about this izviješće, even what we have said on these joint committees. Its efforts and powers stem from the Law on the Military Commissioner and, of course, the Rules of Procedure, and it is also found in the Parliamentary Assembly in that sense. What we can say is that his duties and his powers are very important because they concern the protection of human rights and the freedom of military personnel and cadets in the Armed Forces. Of course, this report shows that it is also made up of the formal side and on the essential, i.e. the content of the law, because it is evident that there is no cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, nor cooperation with the Joint Defence and Security Commission, and in this case with the Parliamentary Assembly or the House of Peoples, which also confirms the presence of a military commissioner and at our sessions. Of course, in this regard, I would like to welcome this report and congratulate our military commissioner on this report, which also contains recommendations for removing shortcomings and those related to advances in military or armed forces, as well as those relating to tighter procedures in order to make more effective and quality work in the powers and responsibilities of the military commissioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1219	Thank you, colleague Krišto. We're out of formal hearings. We're closing. Thank you. We're voting for adoption of the report. Thank you. Attending 13, for -12, against no one, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – 10, all for, RS - 2 for, 1 abstention. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I agree with the report on the work of BiH's parliamentary military commissioner for the past year has been adopted. Thank you very much. 25 We move to the point of the 15th agenda, Ad.15. The request of envoys Dragan Čović, Sulejman Tihić and Ognjen Tadić to consider the Rules of Procedure's proposal for additions to the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples You have received a request from the envoys of my smallity, Sulejman Tihić, colleagues of Tadić for the discussion of the draft Rules of Procedure on the completion of the Rules of Procedure of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? As far as I can tell, there's no interest. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. We are voting on the debate on the proposal for a Rules of Procedure on the Supplements of the Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122 of the Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure. Thank you. At present 13, for -13, there is no objection and abstention. From the Federation of BiH – 10, all for, from RS – 3, all for. The general entity majority exists. I find a request to consider the Rules of Procedure's proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH by a hasty procedure has been adopted. I am opening a debate on the Rules of Procedure's proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Is anyone answering for a word? As far as I can tell, there's no interest. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. We are voting on the Rules of Procedure's proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. At present 13, for -13, there are none against and abstentions. From the Federation of BiH – 10, all for, from RS – 3, all for. There's a general and entity majority. I agree, the Rules of Procedure on the additions of the Rules of Procedure to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted by a hasty procedure. Thank you very much. Transmit 16th point of the Ad16 agenda. Discuss the extension of the mandate to BHRT Management Board members
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1222	Dear Chairman, I'd just like to comment on something that I think we're going to be in a situation that we're going to repeat ourselves multiple times without being systematically resolved. In fact, we have a situation that, according to the findings that I have, a Bosniak member of the Management Board has also expired. We will have a secure situation that once again and again, from 01.4. means the next 60 days, we will be in a position to renew our mandates to the BHRT Management Board members and will constantly spin around in circles. And I propose that once again the House of the Peoples of BiH address the Council of Ministers with one conclusion, of course by commenting on the third conclusion of the Transport and Connection Commission of our House, which exclusively refers to the appointment of members of the Serbian and Croatian people in the body of BHRT, is an authority, which is the Management Board. I personally believe that we should ask the Council of Ministers to launch the procedure as soon as possible, in the parliamentary procedure of amending and supplementing the Law on Communications and the Public Radio BH System. However, by apostrophe of the fact that it is necessary to make it necessary to enable the election of the authorities of the RAC Council and the Governing and Supervisory Board of BHRT. Because we now have a situation where, through this formulation of conclusions, we will insist on the RAK savjet, which has expired its mandate as well as on the Director of RAC, that they make a proposal for the appointment of members of the Board of Directors of BHRT. Therefore, I have prepared the conclusion, and it says - That the BiH House of Peoples is asking the Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver to the parliamentary procedure amendments and amendments to the Law on the Communications of BiH and the Law on the Public Radio Television System of BiH, which will allow the selection of members of the Regulatory Agency for Communications and BHRT. I fear that there are different interpretations in BiH today, that such an authority as the RAK savjet, which has expired its mandate, should propose future members of the BHJRT Management Board, which I do not think we should allow such a thing. Thank you. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1223	Thank you, colleague Košarac. A colleague called Bećirović. Here's a colleague, Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1224	I, I expected you to, you did a little bit of reverse order at this point. Since I'm the chairman of the committee that suggests that
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1225	Can we tie that up now?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1226	Nothing, nothing, it happens. I wanted only briefly, so as not to comment again on the Commission's conclusions on foreign trade policy, transport, customs, communications. In fact, we've only accepted 60 days because the committee of the House of Representatives has set the same deadline. And we think that within that time limit things can be completed if they want to end, aware of the fact that the Bosniak member is also out of office. And what could have caused, colleague Košarac, was the confusion of quoting the Commission's conclusion of the 8th session. At that moment, the Bosniak member was not out of office. And this is just the second one, that conclusion was quoted from the 8th session. Previously, if you noticed, the conclusion refers to all members who have expired their mandate, is a general formulation. And the proposal to amend these two laws, as agreed on by the Commission, also provides for amendments to the rules covering the practical appointment of all bodies that are controversial in this process. So we don't have any, possibly needing a new conclusion, because this first conclusion from the last session and quoting this second 8-session conclusion gives room to the Council of Ministers to finish the job the way we actually want it to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1227	Thank you, colleague Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1228	For a word, he answered... Dragan Čović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1229	Thank you very much, Here are the distinguished colleagues, first of all, that I support this proposal that we have made, in the name of the Committee, but regarding everything that has been going on in the last three years, on the same subject, and since we have discussed the same subject several times in our College and in the Joint College, I have failed to catch all the dimensions of my colleague Košarac's proposal, which is why I wanted to clarify. We are also at a meeting of six leaders of political parties in our time, although it is not particularly necessary to present it here, agreed to resolve the issue and humanely, when it comes to RAC, the Communications Regulatory Agency. And I personally think that it's been a very long time since that agreement and that we need to find a way to rush the procedure of a solution to the human questions, 28 they're the truth through this conclusion being violated by all the other institutions, so that can be understood. But the point of the story is that we need to deal with the Board of Directors or the RAC Board and the RAC Management Board immediately. It's a prerequisite that we could even discuss our Management or how exactly we define the body when it comes to BHRT. I think that we would avoid further debates at some of our House's next sessions on the same subject and never come into the situation again that we should extend the mandate to any member of the Management Board, that we should act quickly in this regard and keep this job quiet. This job is in the hands of the Council of Ministers, and I think that the initiative should be taken to immediately complete that staff puzzle, since we had the support of all representatives, or most of the parliamentary parties. I think that we can do this only hasty implementation of this agreement, and I don't think we're going to be in a position to look for another 60 days, but next time for three board members. Thank you very much. Okay. There's no more in the debate, as far as I can tell. Now, we're going to vote first on the Committee's izviješće and with those conclusions, and then I'm going to ask my colleague Košarac one more time, do you stay with that written text of your conclusion? If you're staying, then get him to us so we can make a statement about him later. Thank you very much. We're running the procedure, we're voting on a proposal for the Commission's conclusions. Thank you. At present 13, for -13, there is no objection and abstention. The Federation of BiH – 10, all for, RS – 3, all for, the general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I'm finding the conclusions have been adopted. Thank you very much. Now, about the proposal of another fellow Košarac player. Here's your colleague, Košarac. Just sign in, eh, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1230	Of course, by the trace of your discussion, I want this conclusion to be found in front of the delegates, and I will formulate it once more. The BiH House of People asks the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver within 30 days the parliamentary procedure for amending and supplementing the Law on Communications of BiH and the Law on the Public Radio Television System of BiH, enabling the selection of members of the Regulatory Agency for Communications and BHRT.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1231	Thank you very much, fellow Košarac player. We're launching a voting procedure on the conclusion. Thank you. At present 13, for -10, v. 1, abstention 2. Federation of BiH – 7 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions, RS – 3 all for. There's a general and entity majority. And I find that the conclusion of my colleague's Košarac has been adopted. 29 Thank you very much. Now I'm going to ask you for a moment, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1232	/microphone is not enabled/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1233	Okay. Okay, thank you very much. _________(?) Now he can write whatever he wants. [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. Since we still have a significant part of the agenda that we have, according to our previous initiatives, a joint statement...... we are left with agreement on ratification of agreements and conventions. I propose that we bring together the debate and today's session a statement on granting consent to ratify agreements and conventions from point 17 to 29, including point 29. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Thank you very much. See you all agree. Let us initiate the voting procedure concerning the proposal for a joint vote on these points, on the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1235	_________(?) [[Mircophone is not enabled]] No, no, this is just conclusions, to merge. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1236	Thank you very much. Attending 13, for -12, against no one, abstention 1. Federation of BiH - 9 for, 1 abstention, RS – 3 all for. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. We adopted this proposal. And now I apologize for not being able to follow, colleague Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1237	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1238	Okay. Thank you very much. The proposal was adopted. 30 You have received a report from the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relationships of the House of Peoples. I give my word to the chairman of the commission of colleagues Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1239	There's no need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And he tried so hard. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-0.u1240	Thank you very much, colleague Bećirović. I'm opening a debate. Is there any need for any comments? I don't see any reports, I'm a little quick-reader, so we'll just wait a second. Okay. Thank you. There's no record of a hearing. We're closing the debate. We vote on granting consent to ratifying the agreements and conventions referred to in points 7 to 29, including point 29. Thank you very much. At present 13, for -13, there are none against and abstentions. Federation of BiH – 10, all for, RS – 3 all for. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreements and conventions referred to in points 17 to 29 of the agenda, including point 29. And finally, before the conclusion, one piece of information to the colleagues to plan their activities. So, on 14th, we have a joint session of both homes, and the college proposal this morning was to hold the next session, so the 15th session of the House of Nations will be held in 15.05., so here's ______________(?) 14 or 15. [[no microphone turned on]] That's right, 14 or 15, so we can plan those great commissions that we have and our time. Thank you very much. This concludes today's session. Session completed at 12:50 a.m.
