ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8031	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 19th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies, representatives of certain NGOs and media representatives. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MPs: Mladen Bosić, Nermin Purić and Adnan Bašić. According to service information, 31 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. When it comes to changes to the agenda, I want to tell you that new points are included in our agenda: - point 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of the Citizens of BiH (second reading), a postponement at the 15th session of the House, held on 8th 12th 2011; - point 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the residence and residence of BiH citizens (second reading), also a delayed declaration at the 15th session of the House; - point 6. The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on the state aid system in Bosnia and Herzegovina (the law in first reading), a delayed statement at the 13th session of the House. tačka 8. The proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of holocausts, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity, we have been supplemented by the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Is anyone picking up? The first to discuss the agenda was registered by MP Borislav Bojić. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8032	The Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, before moving to a debate on the agenda, there is a need as a preliminary question that on behalf of the SDS MEPs, I would like to request information on the activities led here in Parliament regarding the setting of symbols. In fact, I have also asked a question about the symbols, first of all in this high house, here in this hall, counting on followingly serious states, for example, such as Austria or Germany, which in its parliament has represented all the provinces and as such simply behaves in accordance with the Constitution. The BiH Constitution has also defined this question and I do not repeat it. Since the symbol was accessed yesterday, I don't know on the basis of which orders, whether it's a written order, whether it's an oral order or if there's a rule, some rule that defines this question, given that in the SDS, a certain number of perpetrators are equipped with various instruments came to ask the symbols. As a previous question, I request a break on behalf of the SDS Parliament Club, as long as it takes the Kolegijum to answer this question so that after that answer, we can subsequently decide further on our actions. I think I've been clear enough, and on behalf of the SDS MPs' club, I'm looking for an adequate break. As long as it takes, for us, if you can for half an hour and 15 minutes, it's no problem, but a break on behalf of the SDS MPs' club. And please answer these questions I've already said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8033	Okay. First, I want to remind you that we have opened a debate on the agenda. You and all MPs of the House of Representatives may request, within this item of the agenda, the removal of certain items of the agenda or the addition of the agenda, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. However, every member of the business has the right to request a break of up to 30 minutes. I'm only asking my colleagues from the SDS Club how long are you looking for a break, it's up to 30 minutes max?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8034	I asked for a word before I moved to the agenda debate. So I didn't have the opportunity, since you're saying very quickly, that before I move to the agenda I'm looking for a break in which I'm looking for an answer to the question, not to repeat it now, because there's no point in repeating what I just said. So before we move to the agenda. So it was my approach, before I went to the agenda to get information about the activities, not to repeat what I just said.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8035	You're the one who asked it as a parliamentary question.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8036	No, no, no, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the SDS Club and I'm looking for an explanation, because yesterday at the SDS MPs' Club, we had a certain kind of intervention, whether it was Parliament workers or someone else. I'm looking by whose orders, by any regulation or by any order. ...you may have the intention of 3 to implement this particular matter of mine. I don't know what this is about. So, before we move to the agenda, please on behalf of the SDS Club, I'm asking you to take a break and give me an answer to this question that I asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8037	I honestly don't know about these events. I'm taking a break for 30 minutes, and I'm scheduled immediately to extend the College of Representatives' House. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we will proceed with the work of the 19th session of the House of Representatives. We are currently in this section of the session where the agenda is talked about. We had an urgent question that was raised on behalf of the SDS Club, we called on the extended College of the House of Representatives and agreed unanimously on certain things, which I will now inform you about. So, at the extended college, we first agreed to read to you a brief information provided by Sanja Jokić, director of the BiH institution's Joint Affairs Service, and this information reads: 'Dear people, We would like to inform you that today... the setting of coat of arms in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's premises has not been issued by the management of the Service for Joint Affairs, but workers have been self-initiatively setting coat of arms in rooms where they have not been set up so far. However, since there is no legal act that regulates the uniformisation of coat of arms within the BiH institutions' premises, our service will only set up it at the request of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat. With respect, Director...’ In addition to this in the enlarged College, we also unanimously adopted – with the consent and the representatives, that is, the SDS Vice President who represented this club at the Extended College – to hire the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to look into and examine these allegations that came from the directors, as well as these allegations from the SDS Club, and to inform again the Extended College of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. I hope that's what we've absorbed this question with. We're still on the agenda. Mirsad Đugum, after which Mr. Šefik Džaferović, came forward. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8039	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs and media representatives, as president of the Union for a Better Future Club, regretfully informing you that 4 we as absolute leaders of the opposition, as seen by the number of mandates in this House, will leave today's session for an hour. We are doing this because a BiH presidency member Mr Bakir Izetbegović, between two of our meetings, gave an interview in one Sarajevo daily and explicitly said this, under quotes, 'is not the first, but is the last conflict between SDA and Radončić'. When this is added to the context in which this sentence is spoken, it is not difficult to conclude that we have a truly invisible, unacceptable situation for the nominal head of state to threaten the leader of the opposition. So we leave this session, confident that the SDA will not support the threat on its behalf, and we say that dangerous messages will not scare either Radončić or the Alliance for a Better Future of BiH to continue to seek a deal with corruption, organised crime and individuals who have been at its head for 20 years.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8040	My friend Đugum, I just have to ask if there's anything to do with today's agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8041	This is, before the agenda, to inform Parliament that we will not participate in any further work, and then you will get this in writing for an hour that we will leave the session.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8042	The word is Mr. Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8043	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I see that in the agenda of this session the extended college has placed two points of the agenda. One is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card and another is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Housing Act. At one of the previous sessions after the debate, we postponed a statement on these laws, with the aim of trying to find a coherent position in the matter of these laws. As far as I know, the activity on the plan of finding a common position or a possible common position has not been done, or I am not sufficiently informed. I'd like you to tell me if anything has been done on the text alignment plan of these laws or not, so I can figure out how to comply with these laws. If these consultations are not done, they are not done, I think that we should consult in BiH on these two laws, both between ourselves and the representatives of the European Commission, to see what it is that can be on these documents and what it can't be and what it should look like to 'Residency Law', whether or not to change the regime. And I think that would be useful for all of us. I'm not going to ask you to take these points off the agenda because I'm guessing what the result of the vote will be if there's no consensus between you in the College, but I want to say this is what I saw and I'm asking first of all the answer to the question whether anything was done to honor the conclusions of that session when we postponed the statement on these points. That's it, thank you. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8044	I hope you won't get me wrong, but I have to say that this particular question that you've been talking about is listed on the agenda on the proposal of the enlarged College of the House of Representatives. The President of the SDA Club participated in the Enlarged College, and I'm a little surprised you didn't consult with him. He could have given you both yesterday and this morning all the information on these questions. If there is any concrete suggestion that we take this off the agenda, you can suggest it; if there is no, we have nothing further. Comrade Džaferović, here we go again.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8045	You see, Mr. Chairman, I hope you won't get me wrong either. I of course got that information, we're not uninformed. After all, I know there hasn't been any consultation, but not everyone knows that. I know everything that happened yesterday at the College. We're informing ourselves inside our club, so things are completely clear. I think it'd be good to have a consult. It is two very important laws to reach a consensus within BiH. He's not here right now, and that's not good. And we need consultations with the European Commission, not to tell us what we're going to do, but to explain and help us. It is an international document and it is about freedom of movement within BiH. And here, I said I wouldn't suggest because I guess what the outcome of the vote would be, but here, regardless, I suggest that these two points be removed from the agenda and that we take the conclusion from that session when we took these points off, so to carry out the consultations. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8046	Before I give the discussion, I really understand your discussion on purpose and I fully understand how important this is to what we're talking about. And a colleague, Živković, also applied for a discussion on the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8047	The Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, since these items of the agenda are no longer discussed, they have come, I speak for these two points of the agenda, but also for the following, 'The State Aid System Act', no debate. I have to go to this interpretation of these laws by Mr. Džaferović to say something before we reach a point of the agenda that there is no debate. Who's the one who's been defending against discussing these laws in the time behind us, and that's almost a month? Who guarantees that he will remain that way and that he will not be discussed for the next year? We've had plenty of time and, as far as I can see, enough in this House of Feelings for the importance of these laws to be prolonged and not spoken of. I'm talking about the damages caused by the fact that in the drawer of this House of Representatives there are laws and that we're introducing practices that if we can't agree on something, then we can find six one drawers in which we're going to put the laws. I think it's inadmissible practice. We're running out of deadlines. The Ministry of Civil Affairs daily informs us that the documents our citizens need to obtain are missing. That public procurement must also be respected and the requirement required for these documents to be obtained. What loses this home if those two laws let them come to the House of the Peoples and seek consensus in the House of the Peoples? We allow these laws to remain alive, we allow the House of Peoples to discuss these laws and, if necessary and possible, find a consensus to look for them in the House of Nations. Don't let this House of Representatives be a place where the laws are going to hyberate all winter. Give us a chance for others to do their jobs in this country. If this law is broken, which I believe MPs will certainly not do, then the new Council of Ministers who should come should propose other laws immediately. What's the problem? What's the problem? The problem is there's no political will to seriously get into business this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8048	Is there anyone else answering for the discussion? There are no more applications for discussion. Comrade Džaferović, does your proposal remain for these two points to be removed from the agenda?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8049	These are mandatory points.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8050	If you're going to vote, 10 minutes break.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8051	Here you have the right to 10, and I, in accordance with Article 77(3), am giving a 60-minute break, and in 30 minutes I call a session of the Extended College. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I remind you that I have concluded a debate on the agenda. We had a session of the Extended College and the Extended College concluded unanimously that points 3 and 4 of today's agenda are mandatory points of the agenda. In that sense, Džaferović also agreed and I will now read today's session agenda
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8055	Thank you, Chairman. I only apologize for once more checking to see if you've opened the discussion of the 17th session record as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8056	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8057	Yeah, okay. I have an intervention. I know that it is common to state in the notes that they participated in the debate, so the names of MPs, etc. In the 17th session of the House of Representatives, which took place on 30 December, I also had an intervention on the agenda, and on two or three occasions on a different basis I also participated in the debate. My intervention on the agenda was a question, i.e. I had a problem with whether the business assumptions were met in accordance with the Constitution and the laws that the Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Representatives, discussed the Bill on the Budget of BiH and the international obligations of BiH for 2011. 10 And behold, I would ask you to enter into this first part of the record, where it says that I have participated in the debate on the agenda, what I have said indeed. The content should remain this common, I know that there is also a stenogram from the discussion, but I would ask you to on the agenda, given the specific weight of the content and my intervention, it stands in the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8058	I hope this is what the professional services have noted. No one's answering the front of the agenda anymore. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received Until today's session, answers to questions were raised: Mirsad Đugum, Dušanka Majkić, Beriz Belkić, Nermin Purić, Zijad Jagodić, Slavko Jovičić, Azra Hadžiahmetović, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Boško Tomić, Emir Kabil, Denis Bećirović, Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović, Amir Fazlić, Mato Franjičević, Ismeta Dervoz, Zvonko Jurišić, Šefik Džaferović, Aleksandra Pandurević, Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, Milorad Živković, Danijela Martinović and Lazar Prodanović. Any comments on the answers received? No reports, or are there? Here you go, Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8060	Thank you, Chairman. I actually sign up right now, but I don't know, technique might react a little later, but I'll get back to you as soon as you say.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8061	It's no problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8062	Thank you. You named my name among those who got answers. I had three parliamentary questions and all three were answered. I don't know if all three are contained in that one request, but here's what I'm going to do. I will remind you that I am 27.12., that is, calling here for a letter of 27.12., asked the question: ‘How much did it cost to print the material in three languages throughout the entire chain of reviewing the audit report, including the summary opinion on the audit reports of financial operations?’ 11 First, I would like to thank my fellow Members, especially the College, for the revision and joint services of the Parliamentary Assembly, but here I would like to ask my fellow Members and fellow Members, in particular the College, to pay attention to the content of the response to this parliamentary question. In that sense, I would also urge the College to consider potentially reducing these costs, which are really huge. When you look and answer, you'll find a foothold for something like that. That's one thing. The second parliamentary question, if we are already commenting on everything, was the so-called question. Iraqi debt. The issue was addressed to the Council of Ministers, the government of the Federation of BiH and the government of the RS. I received an answer from the Council of Ministers that they themselves have disfellowshipped themselves from this issue even though it is a matter of respect for the provisions of the Agreement on Sucession. I received a detailed and precise answer from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I thank you this time for your response. I first received an answer from the Federation Government that it was not their jurisdiction and that they forwarded it to the Privatisation Agency, to receive a letter from the Privatisation Agency that they had sent a request to Hidrogradnja, and then I received something general from Hidrogradnja. So, to translate, I didn't get an answer to my question from the Federation government. And I would ask you to repeat the issue to the Federation of BiH government from the three addresses I referred to. So that's another question. The third question also referred to the Agency, i.e. it was addressed to the BiH institutions, and it referred to the deadline for first accreditation of higher education institutions, i.e. what are the failures of the Agency, the competent educational authorities and the failure of higher education institutions? I received a reply from the Higher Education Development Agency, although the Agency is not the only entity in this entire chain in charge. The agency reminded me of these deadlines that were highlighted, which I knew and were also the motive to ask a parliamentary question and, secondly, she counted the competent institutions, not making any address for the possible failure of certain institutions in this chain for the fact that we do not have any accredited higher education institutions in BiH, nor are diplomas issued by higher education institutions since 15 August 2011 valid in accordance with our laws. So please repeat this question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8063	Okay. I ask the other MPs to try to fit in on a business schedule. We have three other MPs to comment on the answers received, then we move on to new questions. The word has Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8064	Mr. Chairman, I have received an answer to my question concerning BiH's negative image of the situation regarding this report on corruption in BiH. The Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency has submitted an answer to the question, I thank you for this clarification. I am content with the answer, I am not satisfied with what has been done in BiH in six months, for more than six months after the agency's election. In fact, nothing has been done except that the appointed are probably receiving only their salaries. It is unacceptable that the Council of Ministers has done no more for security, or has done nothing to ensure conditions for the Agency's work and implementation of the Action Plan to prevent corruption. Therefore, no consent has been given to the Internal Organization Regulation, no accommodation for the Agency has been provided, so that the Agency is in fact operating with the manager and his two deputies. 12 I think it is necessary to take urgent steps to overcome this situation and to have results in preventing corruption as soon as possible. The country cannot say that there is any progress unless it behaves at least to the extent that countries are acting in an environment that tends to join the EU. Why will there be some body that will not point to dramatic and prevent dramatic progress in corruption in BiH? So, it is necessary to take steps that this year BiH will move from the bottom of this table in a negative sense of perception and corruption by at least a few scales, and I think that this is possible, first of all, if there is enough political will, the decisions of this body appointed by the leadership and the Agency, and also a new Council of Ministers who, as one of the first tasks, must take all measures to ensure the necessary conditions, so that nothing has been done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8065	The word has an MP, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8066	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question was: "What is the government of the Republic of BiH and the competent ministry of the Federation of BiH doing to address problems related to the PIO/MIO Fund and the RS Fund?" I got the answer very quickly. I'm not happy with this answer. True, they realize that these are very complex issues that need to be dealt with, which many years and co-ordinated activities of different organs are also pulling back. So for these reasons, I asked the question, that we don't have to solve everything in BiH by judicial means, that we can do it in a different way, in agreement. The governments of both entities are responsible for this part of the job. And I hope that, despite what they've answered, they'll try to solve this issue and this problem, so that individual people don't have to go to Strasbourg and expose themselves to new costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8067	The word is Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8068	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8069	Okay. We open b) New Parliament Issues 13 Before we open this part of this agenda, I just want to get to know you and distract you that we're planning from 14.00 to 15.00 today to take a break. And the next break, if we don't finish, is from 16:30 to 17:30, due to a meeting of the College members with Mr. sorensen. So you have it all in mind. If it is possible for you to try to explain briefly, and to deliver in writing. Here you go. The word is Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8071	Thank you, Chairman. My question was addressed to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. On 28 September 2011, the SDS filed a complaint against District Prosecutor Doboj Goran Rubil against the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, which was received on 30 September. Namely, the House of Representatives here, for the debate on the report on the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, at its 8th session, held on August 25th, adopted a conclusion asking the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to analyse the course of the trial that led to the release of the SDS Vice President Branislav Garić's verdict, in which Rubil was the prosecutor. The Doboj District Prosecutor's College also discussed the conclusion and discussions that were heard in this parliament, prompting Prosecutor Rubil to lose control in the presence of six other prosecutors, including the SDS president, to curse the Serbian and Chetnik mothers. The SDS has therefore filed a report against the republican prosecutor against Rubil for the crime of causing national, racial and religious hatred and impatience, which has also been sent to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, in support of our complaint. Also in the report to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, we stated that this was not the first outbreak of that kind of prosecutor Rubil, and that during a trial in Modrica in the presence of a judge and a number of witnesses, he also sent certain curses and messages to the president of the SDS, all because of insisting on lighting up the process that led to the release of the murderer of the late Branislav Garić. How to date have we received only one brochure from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, 'How to submit a complaint to the Office of the Disciplinary Prosecutor?, but not a feedback on our complaint, this time asking the High Court and Prosecutorial Council to answer: What measures have been taken according to our application and what sanctions have been imposed on Goran Rubil possibly? And second question: How many more disciplinary applications have been filed against Rubil in the last three years, and how have these proceedings been completed? At the same time, in order not to repeat, I am initiating the initiative, given that at its 8th session, this parliament has adopted a conclusion asking the High Judicial Council for an analysis of the process that led to the acquittal, and we have not received this initiative so far, I think it has been long enough that the High Court could have done that analysis, and therefore we are launching an initiative to include the agenda of the point: the analysis of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, the course of 14 trials that led to the release of the SDS vice president Branislav Garić's verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8072	The word has a vice-president, Mr. Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8073	My colleagues and fellow MPs, I'm initiating the initiative. So, I propose that the House of Representatives, if possible, conduct a debate on the state and functioning of public broadcasters in BiH, public media. Reason: The meaning and importance of public media should not be spoken of. I think it's clear to everyone what the role and influence of the public media is here. I mean, more specifically, on public broadcasters first. In fact, we are often witnessing an affair and an affair that can be settled in the sphere of management, finance, organizations, etc. But I and all of us need to be more concerned about the programming policy and the public broadcaster programme which, in my opinion and not only in my opinion, is contrary to the function of public media and legal regulations in democratic societies, and contrary to the declared principles of programming. Unfortunately, the rule has become that some public broadcasters, paid by citizens of this country, have become a function of a particular policy or certain policies, which we cannot possibly call democratic. And not only that, but also themselves, rather than reporting about events and processes, they wage their wars, condemn and judge individuals and parties, and often all the nations. Such action is devastating for every society, especially for our BiH society, which is still traumatised by recent war, social and economic crisis, ideological, party, national differences and views on a number of issues. I believe that this destructive action of public broadcasters would be devastating for more stable societies than the BiH society. I believe that Parliament is a place where we must openly discuss this big and dangerous problem and draw certain conclusions. This is much better than individual cases of unprofessional, unethical, tenentious or malignant action by public broadcasters to solve in courts. Then these trials are again used for propaganda, to defend the so-called defense. ours or the attack on others. As you can see, I didn't ask for any information as a basis for this debate, because we can find the basis for the debate almost every day or almost every night, if we watch these broadcasts. I also ask that Parliament make a decision to transfer the debate directly to the entire BiH territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8074	The word is Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8075	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two questions. One is for the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and the other is for the BiH Court. So the first question is for the BiH Prosecutor's Office: 15 'I ask the BiH Prosecutor's Office to provide me with information on the following: 1. How many, with the number and name, has the BiH Prosecutor's Office filed war crimes charges in the BiH area since the date on which the Prosecutor's Office received its mandate until 19.1.2012? 2. How many, with the number and name of the BiH war crimes investigation, of which did the BiH Prosecutor's Office give up an explanation for lack of evidence?" Second question for the BiH Court: 'I ask the Court of Justice to provide me with information on the following: 1. How long has the Court of BiH reached judgments that have become enforcers for war crimes, and in the period since when has the Court been mandated to do so until 19.1.2012, with the following information: (a) the name and last name of the convicted person; (b) nationality and (c) the height of the sentence? 2. How many BiH Court of Justice ruled in the case of war crimes for the period previously mentioned, with data: (a) the name and last name of the liberating person and (b) the nationality?' The reason for these questions is that as an MP, I believe that in recent times and in the last proceedings of the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, these high-level judicial institutions have become very disputable in BiH, their work in fact. And because of the different information, I want to get this information, by saying that I am asking the D.A. officially and the Court to deliver it to me, because I don't want to partially collect that data, but I want to say that a lot of that information is already known and that the data that the Court and the D.A. are going to deliver to me is possible to compare it with some other sources. So I want to warn in advance those who are delivering answers to these questions that, not thinking it is impossible to make direct insight into the registers and the files of both the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice, it is quite possible and certain that the data and information I get from them can be compared. And of course, it can affect positively or negatively the further credibility and position of those two institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8076	The word is Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8077	Thank you, Chairman. I have a short parliamentary question. I refer him to the College of the Representatives' House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the BiH Presidency.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8078	Just one little intervention. We interpreted an article in the last session. 151 and 156. Rules of Procedure and found that members of the College could not ask the Members of the College questions. Just that we're clear on that. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8079	Okay. But I suppose you'll be interested in the issues. But here, there's the presidency, of course. So the question is: 'Is today, 19 January 2012, this BiH state has the Law on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations for BiH for 2011. A year?'
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8080	The word has an MP, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8081	Dear Chairman, I would like to address the parliamentary issue to the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury. The issue concerns the realisation of money under the HyperB project. As is known, the donations made by the Greek government from a previous period. These funds have reconstructed today's building of the Council of Ministers, namely the BiH-Greece Friendship Building. In addition, part of these funds was intended for the reconstruction of the Cassindol General Hospital in eastern Sarajevo. Based on the data I've come up with, I know that, based on this project in the BiH budget, there are currently 4.160.171 KM of neutral means for the complete realization of the HiPERB project. My question: 'Why is it late with the implementation of this project and why the funds are constantly transferred and remain neutral, if we know that, in accordance with Article 14(7) of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, these funds can be treated as multi-annual capital investments and there were no obstacles to their implementation and in the situation where the BiH institutions' 2011 budget was not adopted? As part of the response, I request that I be provided with detailed information on the implementation of the funds under this project by the responsible HiPERB coordinator." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8082	The word has an MP, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8083	Dear Mr. Chairman, my question has been addressed to the Regulatory Agency for Communications: 'What number of complaints have the citizens made about the 2011 Code of Conduct been sent to the Press Council, or to the Regulatory Agency for Communications, and what are these cases? What measures is being implemented by the Regulatory Agency for Communications in order to bring this negative trend into line with the EU regulatory frameworks, given that the European Commission has presented unequal progress in the fields of electronic communications and information technologies?" I'm asking for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8084	The word has an MP, Borislav Bojić. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8085	Given that we are still going to have a debate today concerning the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, I am taking the opportunity to ask a parliamentary question, because I cannot assume whether it is possible to provide a conclusion, and I believe that the foreign trade and economic relations ministry will answer the question. I therefore ask the question I am referring to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and ask for a review of the delegation of public powers to the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce with a detailed analysis of the success of their implementation and the way in which they are used by the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce. I ask that this answer be delivered to me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8086	The word has Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8087	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests, regardless of this previous interpretation, since I do not think that it is adequate, this interpretation refers to that we MPs do not have the right to ask each other parliamentary questions, but we MPs have the right to ask questions from the College of the House, especially when the College is concerned with certain conclusions made by the House of Representatives, so it is possible that it has not realised them and we have the right to know why they are not realised. So I, in this way, will use this right, and the College of the House of Representatives and the Council of Ministers of BiH and the BiH Presidency, will ask all of them several questions and questions. Although a similar question has already been asked, I will only work it out a little bit: 'So do we have today, 19.1.2012, adopted the BiH institutions' budget and external debt for 2011? If we do, why hasn't it been published in "The Official Messenger of BiH"? If we do not, the basis laid down by the Council of Ministers has taken a decision on temporary financing for the first quarter of 2012. the year?' And due to the actuality of the question, I am asking for an answer right now at this session of the House of Representatives today from anyone from these institutions, and given the conclusion of this House when considering the subject of the budget, when we have set some deadlines that are up to seven days, so here are the deadlines that have expired, which is why I am also asking the College of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8088	I remind you once again, therefore, of the precise provisions of the article. 151 and 156. Rules of Procedure. I remind you that at last session of the House of Representatives we had MPs who wanted to ask a question and that he then intervened, among other things, and Mr Džaferović and that we once again interpreted the Rules of Procedure and I hope that we will not violate what are business provisions. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8089	I have a short parliamentary question but, before it is announced, I will in some way abuse this situation and express my great dissatisfaction during today's session. So, 18 after two and a half hours, two and a half hours of break, another hour of break is announced, so who knows, so it's an extremely irresponsible relationship with this parliament, and I think it's high time to specify who in the Rules of Procedure, when and why he can ask for a break. Today we'll have four or five hours off.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8090	Mr. Belkić, you've stepped away from the agenda, just to distract you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8091	Of course, because you can't be asked. So the question...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8092	Stick to the member, stick to article 71. Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8093	Let me read the question, I only commented that it must not be asked you, it is a matter for the D.A.: 'Is the BiH Law Department acting after the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives adopted at the 14th session of 24.11.2011, which is being called upon by the D.A. to continue the recording of state property for the benefit of the BiH state?' I don't have any further explanation, I don't think it's necessary, I call on the pravobranilaštvo to give us a written reply.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8094	The word is from MP Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8095	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to ask the veterinary office. So in view of Article 51, point 36. The Veterinary Act which defines which institutions make up the network of laboratory search institutions within the Residency Monitoring Plan, by calling the public and selecting laboratories from Republika Srpska and... The Republic of Serbia, I apologize, and the Republic of Croatia, has been directly violated by the Veterinary Act in Articles 50, 52 and 53, because according to those members of this law, the laboratory that can participate in the Residence Monitoring Programme must also be authorised by the competent authorities of the entities, i.e. be part of the public veterinary service network in BiH. For those of you who may not be dealing with this term, to say that the residence is the remains of harmful substances of biological or chemical composition in food. My question to the Veterinary Office reads: "Why were laboratories selected from neighbouring countries, Serbia and Croatia, instead of a laboratory from BiH directly in violation of the provisions of the Veterinary Act, through a public call for the selection of the best bidder? 19 It is evident that this approach, with excuses for wanting to create conditions for exporting products to the EU, makes direct damage to domestic laboratories by destroying their credibility. And what I could reach as official information and the damage to the BiH state budget is worth 300,000 KM. For the sake of reminders, here I will only give an example, that our laboratories have already done an adequate analysis as regards fish exports, which the EU has recognised. Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8096	The word has the Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8097	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will only join the questions raised by my esteemed colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović and distinguished counterpart Niko Lozančić, and I will ask for an answer here today at the meeting of the current Finance Minister, Mr. Dragan Vrankić, about the BiH budget and the Interim Financing Decision. 'We adopted the budget, 30 and 31, as we did, for 2011. Immediately after the New Year's, the Bureau asked the Council of Ministers, the BiH Presidency, to deliver the text of the budget, the Council of Ministers made a decision on temporary financing and it was published, and the budget was not submitted to the Bureau and the College of this House on the announcement. What about the budget and how things are now when it comes to the financing of BiH institutions and international obligations of BiH? I would like to ask the answer today immediately here at the session of the present minister, Mr Dragan Vrankić. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8098	Before I give my word to Mr. Slavko Jovičić, let me just remind you of the provisions of Article 153 as to how the question is raised at the session itself, pages 1 and 2. The word is Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8099	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I am renewing my parliamentary question from 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 to which I have never received an answer. So, let all the institutions, let them break the rules of procedure, let them answer me within the legal time limit, but wait for the new Council of Ministers to give me an answer: 'How many cars are in traffic a day? How is it possible not to bring the Council of Ministers or some institutions to the regulation that civil servants and assistants can't use state cars for private purposes and drive them home whenever they want, about using mobile phones, but 'cause they're exactly setting me up with demarcation, not material costs, so they're making me a mess, but the fuel consumption in 2011 so much, the mobile phones in 2011 so much. Who, by name, had the right to call anyone in any way? And these are huge budget savings. So I got, I have to admit, answers in part, some years, from some institutions that had courage or officials who wanted to tell the truth. Of all those, 92% of which I didn't get, it can be quite clear right away, I don't want 20 hypothetical guesses, to assume that it's a complete vengeful, chaos, misuse of taxpayers' funds, because it's impossible, I'm not considering the police, that today at this time 200 cars are in traffic. So what do those 200 people do first, are they at work? First that question, well, when it spreads to everything, a day over 1,000 cars are in traffic. So when it spreads to everything, over 8,000 mobile phones are now in function, to which they have no right. That is why I will ask Parliament to pass, whether there will be regulation, obligation, law, if there is to be a law, when these institutions will not declare themselves important and that the first investment of 96,000 marks will pay for the car, who will stop them and stop them from doing more of this riding and chaos in this country and spending money on every possible level. So, I'm asking for a first name answer from all these civil servants who use these cars, mobiles, all of them alive, and this is a question for the new Council of Ministers' meeting and I'm going to keep renewing it, so it's going to be 2013, 2014 and whether the end of the 2015 mandate, as I was asking in 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010.' /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8100	Please tell us which member of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8101	153, 156, since you warned us about these articles, I'll read them here for all those who don't have a Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8102	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8103	And I asked for an oral response right away at the House. 'When an oral response is sought at the House session, the written submission is briefly formed by one question,' I did so and delivered to the services. 'The President forwards the question to the subject he refers to', that's paragraph (2), so you have a College and forward, you have someone from the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8104	Can we help you right now? Nothing's come to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8105	Just slowly to finish, to finish the intervention, Article 156 says, "Advocacy can question specific facts or situations and other entities."
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8106	Yes, it is. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8107	Let me explain why the College. The budget can never be published until it is signed by the chairman of one home and the chairman of another home. So it's just the president of the House whether he signed or didn't sign the budget. And I ask in this capacity: Did the president of this house sign this budget, did the chairman of the other home sign this budget, and has this budget been submitted for publication? This is for the Home College. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8108	Let's take it in a row. First, when it comes to this Article 153rd position (1), Mr. Lozančić, just to inform you. So, we here at the College and the secretary of the House of Representatives, so far, no written submission has come to us. So, here's if the services have failed somewhere, please deliver it to us so that we can deliver it to the finance minister and make it all okay. When it comes to Article 156, we in the College and the House, last time we interpreted Article 156, that we are not other entities, for example, within this entity called the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. However, I am the chairman today, tomorrow is the new chairman, so that we will not be constantly in some dilemmas, I will suggest that we read these Rules of Procedure together in the next College and the Extended College so that we do not come into these positions in the future. counterpart Azra Hadžiahmetović, did you have any more, what was it?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8109	The chairman, it's a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8111	Just thanks to the argument that my colleague Niko Lozančić mentioned earlier, I will just remind you that I asked the College and the Presidency what you responded to, but here I thought it was a really specific question. Especially in terms of content and reflections, which I warned, among other things, when opening and discussing on the agenda on 30 December. So, considering Article 156. The Rules of Procedure and respecting your arguments that maybe you should reach an agreement at the Expansive College, but here, until an agreement is reached, so my question was addressed to the College, as well as to the Presidency. And here, let me just briefly express my surprise, so that my colleagues who raised their hand last time and for the agenda and for the budget, but here I will say especially for the agenda, perfectly aware that we did it, namely that it was done here, past the rules and with unusual conclusions, today they are making comments and eventually asking the finance minister who is at least in this budget adoption chain, resolutely, although by definition the finance minister as a resolution, they are looking for an answer to an anti-constitutional and anti-conclusive action that has made several institutions in this country. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8112	Okay. I hope we all understand that the College of the House of Representatives interprets the Rules of Procedure when necessary. Since there are obviously people who do not think as we have concluded at the last session, we will consider this question once again at the first next session of the College and the Expansive College so that there will be no dilemmas in the next period. Since in the last minute here we have been given written form, as the Rules of Procedure prescribes, I am now forwarding these questions to the finance minister and here I am asking him to give us an answer in oral form. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8113	It doesn't matter, thank you very much. I welcome all of you together. My little apology for being cold, but here, as a responsible man, you see here today, because I assumed that your attention would cause this circumstance in which we are in the budget of the BiH institutions and the service of external debt, and I will remind you of the Constitution that I am not as Minister of Finance in the hierarchy of responsibility and obligation when bringing and adopting the BiH budget. Of course, there is the responsibility of the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and it is precisely our role that is very important and we have always been one agile service both in preparation and in carrying out the budget itself, and I just want to do it today, is that, I wanted to say and confirm my presence here in this distinguished parliament. I'm also wondering if there's a budget? I asked that question and the House College in writing, and I asked all the other factors that could possibly be involved or give me an answer. As a responsible man, as you yourself are, I don't think there's any priority or practice in behavior rather than behaving by the law. And I, as Minister of Finance, can only and want to act only by law and implement the budget that was adopted, and not perform anything that does not exist, because it would be the introduction to legal anarchy. I'm exposed to unprecedented pressures these days, and I'm even trying to get away from the public a little bit so as not to confuse the public with what's going on. I am being pressured to implement the BiH institutions' budget and service the external debt without having a legal basis for it. You know, whether or not, you have witnessed your conclusions and the decisions you have made here, based on that conclusion and in the belief that the budget will be announced, the Council of Ministers also held a telephone session tomorrow night and made a decision on temporary financing, which I am now saying as a member of the Council of Ministers, I am competent to give this answer, but called for the adopted budget in 2011. Since the budget has not been announced, we have no basis for materialising the Interim Financing Decision. Anything beyond this would be a fact-finding act beyond the law and the introduction of a legal anarchy. And I think that's the worst that can happen to this country. I must say, when it comes to the service of external debt that this is an integral part of the budget, regardless of what the main debt is realized, is it on entities and whatever we are liquid, not only for external debt but also for a small part and for the financing of BiH institutions, meaning there must be a legal basis and therefore it is called 'the budget of the BiH institutions and the service of external debt'. Also, you could see through the public that one of our acts that was prepared is another 28.12. when it comes to paying off the external debt, because it's such a procedure, that we don't now burden you, based on payment orders and payment plans, we have prepared for the first payments to go, I don't know, 8, 9th and 10th, and signed it all together. However, since there was no adoption of the budget, I am 8, because it was the 9th payment, he addressed the Central Bank, our agent, stressing to our agent, not to hurt them by the forwarder, so they are the ones who are working 23 for us, the service for this country, for the commission, they have not acted on my order, but have addressed the Presidency and done one great damage to the Presidency. The presidency ordered, in my court, to pay an external debt for which there was no competence and went to another part that stood. I can only ask you in this context to understand that I have no legal basis for solving the budget. I have called upon everyone from the Presidency, the Council of Ministers and you personally in Parliament, you have written documents, and I think, and yesterday again, to sit down and try together, if there are problems, obviously there is, to solve this problem in the interest of all because it will be done a great deal of damage that has already been done, not only is external debt not being serviced but it's a great pity that we don't have a budget for '11, which we don't have a fiscal framework, which we're breaking the Fiscal Council Act, etc. Another sentence when it comes to the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury. The day the political leaders met, I immediately returned to the office, took the record, called my staff and gave them a warrant: work, work at the conclusion. Tomorrow night, in less than 24 hours, because as long as we all gathered together, we did what we were asked to do. In fact, we have been to oral correspondence, as we always do and usually do when they are doing a budget that is directed towards Parliament or intervened on it, however, we have done and delivered it to the Presidency around 10.00 a.m. It was personally taken by the assistant minister and not by some unknown person, it's an assistant minister in the capacity of the authority I gave him, and in the end, it's a state official who's just been invited to do these jobs with his full capacity,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8114	Mr. Minister, just one note, so try to fit in at this time of business.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8115	Here I'm finishing up, okay, it's important and this is important, so I don't think it's important for minutes: in such a way, you know everything else. We were at a disposition, we delivered everything we did to the Presidency that was delivered to you, and then we also delivered it to the Presidency, this same budget translated into three languages as you publish it, and we also delivered it to the Council of Ministers, and I don't know what to do anymore. That's it. Thank you. _________(?) Where's that standing now? I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8117	Please, so we heard the answer from the finance minister, who, as far as I can tell, is the only member present of the Council of Ministers here in the O.R. All MPs who have asked this question now have the right to comment within two minutes. Mr. Lozančić answered. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8118	I thank the Minister. I suppose he spoke in the capacity of the Council of Ministers' Vice-Presidents, and if this is the response on behalf of the Council of Ministers, I am pleased with the answer. However, I am not satisfied with the situation in which we are and I must say that I find it very interesting that it does not concern anyone. So I call on the article of the Constitution which says Parliament's decisions cannot come into force before they are published. We have made some decisions about the budget, however, as long as these decisions, whatever they may be, are not published in the Official Messenger, they do not exist. In that sense, I was asking the question, and I'm going to repeat it again to the College because without the College, there is no publication of what we are, and I don't see what the problem is to say, here in the College, for information, for public sake, it's clear to me that we don't have a budget. So to whom it's not clear, I didn't ask a question because of myself. We don't have a budget right now and there's no basis for a decision on temporary funding. We're in a blockade. The whole country's in a blockade. If the problem is to ask that question, if the problem is to give an answer, I don't know what kind of problems we're going to be in, because obviously there's no such thing as desire or will at all, what's a respected colleague, here from the bench puts it: where are we now, what are we going to do? I'll remind you that we're MPs, whatever anyone thinks of us, came to New Year's Eve here to try and save the situation. And I'm not going back to what we voted on, I'm not going back to how questionable and procedurally, etc., I've experienced personally but also from all other colleagues as one great wish that we don't bring the state further uncertainty when it comes to a very important act of this country. I don't know, I'm saying, I'm happy that the minister informed us, but I'm absolutely unhappy and worried that we don't have a budget right now.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8119	Thank you. The comment on the answer received is Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8120	Thank you, Chairman. First, I referred my question to the College and to the Presidency. So to the competent institutions throughout this procedure. At least, even in my discussion, I stressed, the least part of it is, unfortunately, fortunately, or whatever you want, the Ministry of Finance, or specifically Minister Vrankić. Minister, I thank you, you have not said anything new to me, but you have explained, probably to those who are less aware, how much you have tried, on the basis of one document agreed by the leader, six leaders of the political parties, to prepare immediately a proposal for the Presidency, which is the mandated draft of the budget to this Parliament. I'll remind you, we didn't get from an authorised promoter in 2011 the draft budget for 2011. This parliament was warned and, nevertheless, Parliament voted in favour of what it voted. But here, to be clear, I'm staying on my own, that's one thing. And secondly, I just want to warn, there is no budget for 2011, there is no more legal basis for 25 of us to adopt the budget or anyone to participate in the adoption of the 2011 budget. The only thing we can do, in particular, is call on those who are responsible for the situation in this country, to prepare the 2012 budget urgently, of course, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, which we have all sworn here in the Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8121	And we still have a comment from MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8122	Mr. Chairman, it's not a comment, it's an additional question. I apologize, so I'm from a place, I shouldn't have done it, asked the minister directly without permission to speak. Now I ask him, I followed well, so the ministry did so after the political leaders agreed, delivered it to the presidency. We got what we got from the presidency, and then here before New Year's Eve, we were saving things. That's how I understand the role of this House. We are aware of all possible elements, both legal and factual. So, saving, trying to save the thing. Afterwards, the Bureau asked the Council of Ministers for acts, from the Council of Ministers. You have also done so at the Ministry on this new request from the Presidency and nothing has reached the Presidency afterwards. Where are things now? Do they stand in the Council of Ministers, so that I, in particular, ask the question, in the cabinet of the Council of Ministers, where are they, therefore, answer that question, and what do we do? Because you've made an act for us, and we're said that it's not possible to make that act until all the commitments are collected, so sometimes in February, March of the month will be possible to make. That's how I hear it in public. Now please just explain these two things to us so we know what it is. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8123	He's a colleague of Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8124	Thank you. It seems to me that we have introduced a very important item of the agenda in one roundabout way through parliamentary issues, which is not good. I personally and the SNSD Club had no objection to this being a part of the agenda, that the proposer suggested it here, and that we discuss this with the cold heads and make conclusions that could advance the process. This is how to call through the parliamentary questions of only one man who is in the chain of those who decide on the budget and to give their opinion in the way it is presented, I don't think it's a good way to solve this problem. This parliament had the political will to draw certain conclusions last month, as we have called on Article 165, a member who speaks of conclusions, and that what we believe the parliamentary majority agreed on by six leaders is being respected. It could have been done technically very simply to deliver to each institution 31.12. what she spent money and to collect. My colleagues, there are 140 million missing here, and someone in this country is not going to say where 140 million went missing, and that's why this whole problem has arisen. Every year here, I followed this pay phone and every single MP said that money was being transferred from budget to budget, as in the army, that the belts were missing, that helmets were missing, but people were always being left out. There's a wall here now. All institutions made budgets this year and said how much money they spent, but there are no 140 million missing. And that's a much more important item than opening these questions on parliamentary matters. 26 So please, if you are in the mood to talk about this seriously, let us do it in a way that we can put on a session of the agenda, if we should also have a special session of this House. I personally, as the one who is scheduled to chair tomorrow, will direct this House and the letter is already being written to a member of the Presidency, let's see where we left off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8125	...the microphone was not included... so I concluded that I had asked new parliamentary questions, that we had answers to parliamentary questions and comments and that this was over. The only thing I can give if there's business interventions.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8126	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8127	Here you go, Mr. Lozančić, tell us where it was broken.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8128	I agree with you on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, only that you did not give a word to your deputy chairman, whom I particularly respect. He was involved in discussion and replication, not in asking parliamentary questions. And be consistent in respecting the Rules of Procedure. He applies to you both in the College and to us. And then it's okay. However, since you gave it to me, I don't mind, giving it to us that your esteemed deputy vice president, Mr. Živković, says we're talking about a serious matter, so I'm going to add a little bit now and say, unseriously we're talking through parliamentary issues, you have to let me react. I don't think it's serious. So I don't think it's too serious to ask what's going on with the realization of our conclusions. Our conclusion was, this home, that within seven days, before our session, the budget is going to be published. That's the conclusion of us voting for it. I voted for it, too. I monitor that these days there is an intense debate in the public of various representatives, different institutions of this country, from the Presidency, the Council of Ministers, the Department of Irregular Taxation, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury. And they in the media explain to each other whether there is a basis for implementing the Interim Financing Decision and what is next. As representatives, I suppose we have the right to know whether we have a budget and whether these institutions, which have entered into the spending of funds based on the Interim Financing Decision, have the right to do so or not? And I'm ready, so I agree that this, for me, is a very serious matter, we discuss today and whenever you want. But we must not be mistaken, in the suspense of the citizens of this country that they are speculating about it because we have no answer. They're the reason I'm asking. Do we have a budget? I also concluded from this answer that we don't have a budget, because it wasn't published in the Official Messenger. I concluded that there was no basis for the Interim Financing Decision, and I concluded that what is now being spent on that decision is illegal. Thank you very much. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8129	Business, Mr. Živković. Before I point out, my colleague Lozančić, a colleague of Živković's, had a business report, not to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8130	Thank you. I will respect the agreement, if the agreement is, that MPs do not ask the College or the College to ask questions to MPs. But in the last term, and my colleague Lozančić was with me in the College, we were answering parliamentary questions because we simply feel that we are required as a College to give information to the MPs about the things they are interested in. In this regard, I, as a member of the College, answered, as members of Parliament asked the College about the budget. And I think that I had reason to come forward and tell you what I think about all of this, as I think the Constitutional Court said in its provision 01/8, one sentence, the conclusion: 'The Constitutional Court concludes that the legislator has the authority to set a deadline with the aim of effective functioning of the state within which the budget must be adopted and in which it may take temporary financing, but that the measures prescribed in case that deadline is not fully respected should not prevent the exercise of the competence of the state institutions, because this would be contrary to the stated objective and spirit of the Constitution of BiH." This is the Constitutional Court's decision on the basis of which the Council of Ministers had the right to take a decision on temporary financing. But here's all to determine, if we agree, that the next session of Parliament should be devoted to this issue, and I will personally send a letter to the Presidency tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8131	Darko Babalj, and I'm closing this agenda item.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8132	I was contacted after the discussion of Mr. Džaferović, a colleague of mine. I just again, I don't know, I asked a question at the enlarged college and I got a partial answer from Mr. Živković and from you chairman. Did you get any papers from the Council of Ministers? I have information that it is. And if so, please introduce us as MPs to what it says in that Council of Ministers report, because, in my opinion, in this discussion, which I see here today, there are some two sides. So let's hear the other side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8133	This is what we ended up with on the second agenda. Moving to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the ID of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina 28 At the 15th session of the House, held on 8 December 2011, a conclusion was adopted on the postponement of the plea. The House College in an extended composition decided to place this item in the agenda of today's session. Today, we're just going to make a statement about the bill's proposal in the second reading, which means there's no discussion within this agenda point. We're going to the fourth point, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the residence and residence of BiH citizens (second reading) – deferred declaration at the 15th session of the House
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8139	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8140	Just tell me what length you're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8141	15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8142	15 minutes at the request of the SDS Club. MPs, please indeed come within 15 minutes to proceed. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, we move on to the realization of the agenda, the 7th item of the agenda. The word is Mr. Darko Babalj and then we move on. Here you go. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8144	The explanation of the break: what I wanted, I got it. I came to that paper you were talking about, thank Mr. Živković, that Mr. Vrankić was wrong about everything he was saying. Thank you. If anyone's interested, I'll copy it, so you can see.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8145	I thank you for this constructive explanation. No charges have been filed for debate within the 7th point, closing the hearing. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda: 8. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of the Holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity, Proposers: MPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics So I'm opening the 8th point of the agenda. First for the word, MP Mato Franjičević signed up within this point. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8147	I've been looking for an opportunity to react, or replicate my colleagues to Babalj, but you've already moved on to this point. Since there is no Dragan Vrankić here, Darko, Mr. Babalj claimed that Mr. Vrankić was wrong and showed this memo to Nikola Špirić. If Mr. Vrankić were there, he would probably react and say about the following. In this memo, which is no secret and which has been passed on to the College, Mr Špirić refers to everything but the fundamental law applicable in this area, which is the Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions. There you go. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8148	I don't know whether it is necessary to remind Members of the Rules of Procedure that we have opened the 8th point of the agenda and that we should discuss it. Now here we have a replica at the 7th point of the agenda, and open 8th. Mr. Babalj, come on, here's when we made this precedent, you have a replica and the word is Mr. Beriz Belkić on the 8th item of the agenda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8149	I will respect the Rules of Procedure and withdraw the line. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8150	Thank you. The word is Mr. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8151	So, I have no intention of repeating what I was saying when this law was first here at the debate, but out of respect and responsibility for such an initiative, I want to express my deep regret, without the intention of harassing anyone, because there was a statement that people were a little bit and disturbing themselves with such initiatives, to express regret that we missed a real opportunity to do a human and civilizational act, I never claimed that this law could solve some things to the end, but this would be one contribution to the process of changing the system of thinking, etc. We, that's for sure, I know this law won't pass again today, but by not adopting this law, it won't change the fact that in this world and this country both the Holocaust and the serious war crime and genocide have happened. Here, I had a need to say very briefly, and once again, I point out that we missed our chance. I hope there comes a time when we will have common access to this sort of thing in the state.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8152	There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate within this agenda. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. BiH Law Department's 2010 report I'm opening a debate on the report. Is anyone answering for a hearing? There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Information on the state and problems in the functioning of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Foreign Chamber of Commerce, the BiH Council of Ministers' material, since 7.9.2011.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8155	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. So, I would like to say a few sentences concerning the above-mentioned information on the situation and problems in the functioning of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH. In fact, the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission has been dealing with this issue for several months, not to mention the conflicts and causes of those conflicts between the Foreign Chamber and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. So, on this occasion, I'd like to express my dissatisfaction that we've only received information from the Ministry. I know that the Ministry is actually an address that we need to address, but if we get the information addressed this way, we'd be in the office if we'd gotten the information or the answer listed in the information from the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, so we were able to hear the other side. Also, the club chief tabled a proposal yesterday at the Enlarged College: he asked for at least one representative from the Foreign Chamber to attend today's session. I don't think there's anyone from the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, so I'm sorry we can't do it here on this occasion, at least if there are certain questions, that we don't have any other side that might be able to give us oral information on any questions. I also don't think it's right that we got the information addressed like this. So it's about information on the situation and problems in the functioning of the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce. Basically,...so the material should read 'Information on the situation and problems in coordination and co-operation', not 'in the functioning of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH'. So we're talking about an institution, and we don't have feedback, so by that institution. Also, what is worrying is the material that was dated on 12.8.2011. In fact, so far we've had more of these meetings and the material should have been innovated because a lot of these things have happened that have changed the fact that it's listed in that information. So we don't have any updated data and we have, I'm free to say, and incorrect data. So, since I'm a member of that committee, I've had the opportunity to hear these last two or three meetings and the position of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, without intending to defend anyone but simply to get an insight into the information that we've received. So, I do, and I'll tell you some information. I suppose that colleagues who have reported that they will also provide additional information and colleagues, so that we can adequately declare ourselves on that information. We are told here that the choice of leadership... The foreign trade chamber was illegal, but in the ninth month, the BiH Court ruled that the choice of leadership was legal. So we have a court-law decision, which means it's still questioning all this other information in that information from the Ministry. It is also mentioned here that certain public powers have been transferred to the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. So a question arises which are public authority. So the material itself says that no one is sure if there are public authorities that have been transferred to the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. The Ministry of Justice couldn't determine that either, and at our insistence 33, the Ministry did not provide us with the decidently stated public powers that had been passed on. There's only a problem with a detective who's not assigned by law, but by contract. Also mentioned is the conflict related to the issue of bar codes with the association... however, as far as I know, administrative proceedings are being conducted before the court. So we can't adequately state ourselves here about a particular case and the issue of a court case. The National Committee is also mentioned, however, in the Official Messenger a decision has been taken by the Ministry of Transport and Communications, which decidently states that funds should be transferred to the account of the vault. And I wish there was a representative of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce here, and they claimed that they had repeatedly submitted requests to the Ministry but had not been provided with an adequate account so that they didn't know the account number to which they would transfer the millions of marks in their account. So, I'm sorry they weren't representatives, I repeat, of the Foreign Chamber here. And on that background are the conclusions that are in the light of what I've said really irrelevant, inadequate. First, it is said that our commission has asked for 'Information on the State and Problem in the functioning of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH', which is not true. We've asked for joint information to be supplied to both the Ministry and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce concerning the identified problems in their coordination. It is also required, therefore, in conclusion, to amend the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH. There is no basis for amending that law anywhere. So, if it's about the detectives, the problem is regulated by the contract. It has also been said that there is a need to review the existence of public powers transferred to the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, and neither has the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations nor has the Ministry of Justice established which powers have been transferred. Likewise, in the fifth conclusion that the Parliamentary Assembly should consider the possibility and order the implementation of the electoral process, and I said, therefore, we have information, i.e. we have received valid evidence that the BiH Court ruled in favour of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. So I say again, I think that the Ministry should have delivered us along with the Foreign Chamber of Commerce Joint Information and Information that would have been innovated with the latest information, because this information has really been misleading since 12.8 representatives, so colleagues in this home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8156	The word has been given by the chairman of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8157	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, you have before you the opinion delivered by the Commission on the Information on the State and Problems in the functioning of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. I have no intention of reading all the content of the Opinion given that you all have opinions ahead of you, but I would like to point out that it may rarely be possible to see this kind of reporting of this committee, where we tried to, 34 first of all, transfer to Parliament everything that came to us as information. I have to say that there are a lot of deviant information, different and even from the same institutions where those in this ministry or others who are in the Foreign Chamber of Commerce are two sides, which, in my opinion, is something that can't function in such a way that the legislator would have to resolve all these dilemmas if they exist. After all, to define which are all the controversial points in the functioning of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. What is evident is that, in the confirmation of a certain number of representatives from the Chamber itself, that it has some of the powers transferred to the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and at the same time from the Ministry itself can be heard 'yes, yes, there is', but when we are looking for exactly what powers are passed on, then very often there is no concrete response from which it can be seen practically. The only thing you can see here for now is a question of detail that, in co-operation with the entity's chambers of commerce, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and the Ministry have carried out in accordance with the law. Considering all that you can read in this very report from our commission and what could be heard by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Foreign Trade Chamber, I think it would be good to approach conclusions first of all. I am sorry that the Commission did not reach conclusions, we had a shared opinion – three members of the Commission had their position, while the other three members had a different kind of attitude – so practically the Commission, which was considering whether or not to launch the initiative at all, and whether or not to amend the Foreign Chamber Act at all, we failed on the Commission itself to determine the position, which does not mean that at the House of Representatives we cannot possibly get some kind of support to simply analyse the situation in the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, and that, in my opinion, we are supplied with information by the Ministry: which public authorities are transferred to the Foreign Chamber. Finally, to see whether the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and how it manages these powers, that is, how it uses them and ultimately that there is a certain kind of control over the work of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, because simply neither Parliament nor the Ministry can, nor who controls the work of the Foreign Chamber itself. Given that this is a serious resource, I propose a House of Representatives, and I am prepared to translate it into conclusions, that we commit our main public sector audit service to carry out an audit of the business of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce in which it is to be transferred, and only on those issues where public powers have been transferred from the Resord Ministry to the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. I also think that this Parliament should oblige the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to provide us with information on the delegated powers and to see how these powers are ultimately used and what powers are really transferred to the Foreign Chamber itself. I think the House of Representatives should launch an initiative for the adoption of the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH, i.e. amending and supplementing the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, with the aim of removing all the shortcomings observed in the work. So I think that these amendments to this law should cover the way in which public powers are transferred, then regulation of the issue of the assignment of the detective, then control of the work of the chamber system in general and other issues that could be heard during the debate that was carried out within the Commission of the House of Representatives several times and on several occasions. If there is indeed a good will in this House of Representatives to make some kind of progress in this business and, ultimately, that there is, here to say, parliamentary oversight and control, and, ultimately, there is a possibility through the Rules of Procedure itself which defined that this 35 commission, and in any case should also have a certain kind of support for the House of Representatives,... a certain type of parliamentary investigations, since there is, in my opinion, no democratic control over this institution that is very important here in BiH and which has very significant resources and is very important for business entities in BiH. I have to say that at the very beginning of these long-term sessions, we had such a kind of attitude that it almost couldn't even be discussed, because it was simply the opposite of the Ministry's views towards the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and vice versa by the Foreign Chamber of Commerce towards the Ministry. In the end, I have to say that the atmosphere is still in one state, here's to say mutual respect, that we could talk about the problems they're facing. I appreciate that the House of Representatives, in some humble opinion, should have a far more active position here so that these jobs would be done in the interest, above all, and for the functioning of not only obligations,... obligations that only the ministry has but also for the functioning of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, I repeat once again, which is of interest to all economic operators in BiH. There is, of course, the issue of these permits issued by the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, where we had one representative from the Foreign Chamber, who says 'we will now suspend the issue of these permits', while, behold, when we were at the debate yesterday, we have another representative, who says 'no, we will continue to issue it until this process is completed in Brussels in connection with... or GS1 (this association that issues automatic identification and electronic exchange of data on management and business processes and the management of that register). There is simply complete parallelism where such solutions go from the Chamber and at the same time they go from this association that is also registered and there is a dispute over the issue. I think it's inadmissible that the House of Representatives is simply, let me say in a way, looking at these events in terms of: so here's the job we need to do. I think that we should go with the initiative to analyse the situation and that if, eventually, through that analysis, we determine the real need for amendments to the law, so that this amendment to the law will not be made outside this House of Representatives, beyond the interest of, above all, businessmen who will certainly represent the political parties sitting here in these benches. I, starting with that fact, am prepared, if there is any support for other political parties and here MPs in the House of Representatives, that we are going with the initiative to simply well evaluate this situation, to obtain quality information. If these analyses show the need for amendments to the law, let them be approached by amendments to the law that will improve the functioning of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. It makes a lot more sense to me. I don't want to side with either the Ministry or the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, and I think that's what the House of Representatives should do. First of all, to put ourselves on the side of law enforcement and possibly improving legislation that will allow these institutions to function for the benefit of BiH businesses. I tried to, here, say a peaceful, peaceful one discussion to point to the possibilities that the House of Representatives can do when it comes to this job. I repeat once again, not putting aside neither, nor others, but on the side of the law and on the side of the need to draw conclusions on this issue here. I think that the lack of any kind of control of any entity, including this House of Representatives, of some of the competent institutions is also something that is unacceptable, and I recommend that the representatives of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce be included in order to provide for a certain type of control in the law, not only of those who finance the Foreign Chamber of Commerce but also of, after all, the BiH institutions that have transferred part of their 36 powers to the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. We have an interest in controlling how these powers are ultimately implemented and used. That's it. Not to be complicated, I've made sure to try if we can find a conversation with other political representatives, I'm willing to prepare these conclusions, of course, if there's a will to provide the majority in this House of Representatives. I'm not, of course, a commitment to write it just for writing or just for needing me to have some idea that is who it is and I think there's a lot more people here who are sure to find themselves on this background to get to a much better solution. Chairman, I thank and live.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8158	Thank you. Discuss, Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8159	Thank you, Chairman. Here, let me perhaps start a little out of the ordinary, and that is why this point is in the agenda of the House of Representatives, so Information on the state and problems in functioning, as the Information says - independent, non-governmental, non-profit, non-profit associations. Imagine, for example, this came from the Ministry of Foreign Trade, as far as the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is concerned, imagine that it's from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, for example. information has come about the state and the problems in functioning of the Centre of Civil Initiatives. All that's similar is what's civilian. I'm sorry, it's just an association of names, not by any chance any problems in the functioning of any of these institutions that have been mentioned or the bullets on the route of some state institution, ministry and some non-governmental association. You see, given the circumstances, I might know a little better about this issue, especially the Foreign Chamber Act, which was passed in my own time when I was in office, so that was 10-11 years ago. Under that law, this non-profit, non-governmental, etc. works. Association. And I must at first express my surprise that the foreign trade minister sent, firstly, this kind of information to Parliament at all. Secondly, that he had sent such content of information, because after a very good insight and a move drawn by the Committee of Parliament, in the Report which was excellently drawn up and presented here in Parliament, I wonder whether the Commission would seek the responsibility of the minister who cited what he stated here: that something was irregular, and the Commission was very well aware that any irregularities had been declared by the court by his court verdict, saying there was no irregularity, and the minister tells us irregularly. So then the minister tells us that he has the right, or Ministry of Foreign Trade, to implement the law. Look, there isn't. The foreign trade ministry's competencies precisely in Article 26, which is called upon by the minister, the law in question ended the moment the foreign trade ministry helped establish an institution regulated by the law. The foreign trade ministry controls neither, nor controls, nor anything else this NGO, non-profit, etc. Association. They can work together on common issues and have signed together an agreement to which, among other things, the minister is called here, which 37 refers to details and the implementation of the agreement is the subject of joint engagement and the signing of these two institutions. So, the content of this information delivered to Parliament is very problematic, and the fact, of course, why this information was in the House of Representatives at all, because the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is not a state institution. It is true that it has public powers, but it is precisely in the light of what was signed by the chairman of the Commission, Mr Borislav Bojić, as he himself says: the public authorities that are as standing here in this information, as the law says, are arranged in accordance with the agreement, i.e. the agreement between the Ministry and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. So, I'm really surprised, firstly, that this information was even sent to the House of Representatives and I'm even more surprised at the College that, after the conclusion of the resolution committee last year, it put as a point of the agenda, not putting in that other information, which is this information that the Foreign Chamber made up. Once again, let me remind you, the Commission's agreement and the Commission's mandate was to have the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce supply common information. After that, the minister refers independently to this information to the House of Representatives and does not place this other information on the agenda as a point of view. Having, of course, in the light of the fact that there was no need at all for the Outer Chamber of Commerce here in this way, especially not with this kind of content of this information and to discuss. So, indeed, all praises to the Commission who, in this way and with comprehensive information, presented this whole issue to all those who have little less knowledge of this issue, but here, now I'm going to say something that perhaps the Commission doesn't know either. A year and a half to two years ago, in accordance with his powers, the chairman of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce decided to set up a commission to implement the election procedure for the Chamber of Directors to which the mandate stands. At that time for a year and a half, the Assembly of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce was blocked, and its work was blocked. I just want to mention that these are the grounds on which the court has reached its verdict. A commission was formed, there were about 500 candidates reported, candidates were elected. At the time of the election, some who had claimed to stay, or be re-elected, or elected to the Chamber's leadership, did, in this way, a little more intense press pressure. When a new leadership was elected a year and a half ago, I haven't known since that I've registered a single piece of information in the paper. As far as I know, Mr. Veselin Poljašević is knowingly doing his duty. I don't know the details, but I don't even know if anyone made any remarks, or a business subject or anything else related to the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. So, in the meantime, again, of course, those who thought the injured were being sued lost the dispute in court, and the minister sends us this information about the situation in an NGO as mentioned at the outset. Indeed a surprise, you, sir, are the only thing I can mention to the Commission – really well apostrophe in this last part, the third part of my report. First of all, you've done well to apostrophe that the Chamber is not an authority of the public administration and that the Ministry cannot control its work. Therefore, both this information and any debate today at the House of Representatives is excessive. You also mentioned this decision, i.e. the court, i.e. a court dispute that was related to a part of this information presented by the minister. Among other things, you mentioned an agreement when it comes to public authority between the Chamber and the Ministry. But here, to mention what you may not have mentioned and what may be worth mentioning – that the Ministry of Justice, which was once involved in the control of public functions performed by NGOs, in a specific case 38 of the Ministry of Foreign Trade, or a dispute at the route of the Ministry and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, has found, among other things, that the law, i.e. the provisions of the law, say that it could mean that the Ministry of Foreign Trade could be competent over the same but could not be reliably established, completed, a quote by the Ministry of Justice. So, there are a lot of things that are really speculative here and that are raising a number of questions, but I think we'd be going into a bigger trap if we were to make some extra conclusions of the type that we need to exercise democratic control, or any control over the work of the NGO sector, because then let's expand that to all NGOs of the outside Chamber of Commerce. I think that would be a mistake. And secondly, truly, here's what I have no intention of asking questions and responsibilities in that legal sense, but one cannot remain unquestioned over the content and background of what is in this information that we have only received here as a item of the agenda and which he has signed, I want to believe in error, foreign trade minister and economic relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8160	Dear colleagues, on a proposal from the College, the Extended College determines the agenda and there all club presidents have the right to propose agenda points, to reform it. Those MPs who don't have their own club in the session can discuss the agenda to do the same. When the agenda is adopted, it's not okay to respect the College for defining such agenda points. I know it's all the college's fault, but there's a way to fix it if something's wrong. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zijad Jagodić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8161	Thank you. I'd like to say about this item of the agenda to really state my opinion, given that I got this information and I just think it's good that she's on the agenda, and I think she's been on the agenda since yesterday, so, come on, she could wait until next year. But since this case is already, in my opinion and according to this data, for almost two years, possible for three years, I believe that it is high time that, in my opinion, despite the fact that the Foreign Chamber is an NGO and as such registered, I believe that its activity and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations should be in coordination and in coordination with each other. I think that's what it's supposed to be, no matter how anyone thinks. But I have a feeling, since as a businessman, as a man in everyday problems I cannot understand that the Minister and Director of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce can not sit down and try to find a solution to these problems that this parliament is concerned about, but in every case. Given that we are in a situation of changing the new Council of Ministers' call, I believe that in the coming period, or as soon as possible, it would be good to invite a normal and new foreign trade minister and certainly the management of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce to try these dilemmas in one reasonable... way and to help both. Because here, in my opinion, relations are certainly disrupted between the Minister and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, or the Director. Now who's in between, whether it's the associates or the minister directly but obviously from these memos, or this information, I've read everything and come to the realization where the court rulings have just suggested that the Ministry is most likely made a certain failure or oversight, I don't know whether by accident or 39 on purpose, but it doesn't matter now, mostly that verdict has become final. Which means, I justify the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and its action, but I certainly feel again that co-operation with the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations must be at a level and we need to do everything we need to do to stabilise these relations and to give those effects that are expected in this area. I don't want to talk much, but I can see that it's about the financial resources that are in the account of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, which is about a million marks. I really can't understand that at a time when we have a lot of sectors where people are looking, waiting for funds, where they're standing free, nobody raises the question of who's going to manage them because they're kind of legally acquired but they're standing, they're not in function. There's a responsibility to be sought. I really think that in the next period, I don't know, possibly within a month, if these changes happen to the Council of Ministers, so new, that should be, I expect, that we should really take these things on the agenda again, no matter what anyone thinks we shouldn't. I really think it's over and every day is important to us. I hope we can make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8162	Thank you. The notice – so when we finish discussing this item on the agenda, I will suggest a break of an hour so that you can provide for a registration for the discussion. Discussion, honourable MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8163	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Fellow Members and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is a clear example where we, as the largest legislative body, have full responsibility when it comes to law-making, because the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce has brought this high home. And she has a folk, she says, "What a smart buys is easy to sell, and what a fool buys a hundred smart sales can't." Therefore, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is said to be an independent, non-governmental, non-profit, public, legal association in Article 2, and in Article 3 we have said the same – members of the chamber are businesses, banks, those, automatically, if they are registered. It is a coercional organization, and it is not an NGO, so the government that forced it, so all of this in Article 2 in Article 3 is denied. And especially, then what's more important now is what's next, such an organisation where automation, by forcing you to be a member, they see themselves being chased in one court, the other, the third, and they've decided that one change to the value of imported goods shown in a customs credential is charged for by the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. And one promil, that means imports in 2002, I still have to say, it's true that imports of goods for export are not paid and equipment for their own purposes. That's about 30% less than total exports when they take these things. And when we know that imports in 2010 were 13 billion 616 million and 238 KM, i.e. in 2011 from the first month to the 11th month 14,115,171,000 KM, if we know that one has changed to one billion, that's about 10 billion to be calculated on one promiscuity for the Foreign Chamber – 10 million marks the budget is the Foreign Chamber of Commerce according to their legal act adopted by the Assembly, so for their work. True, they'll say they can't charge for it, I know they can't because the economy can't pay for it, they won't pay for it, so they're chasing the courts. 40 So, we made a fundamental mistake, this Parliament, just put it that it was automatic. If we had said it was a voluntary association, well, then it would have been a member of the 2nd office, if it were a non-performing, non-profit, non-governmental association of businessmen, precisely, who should choose themselves, and one of the significant institutions as the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, and it is that we are all in coordination here in Parliament and in the Council of Ministers, we say and give certain authority to the institution, but which is on a voluntary basis voted and in this way we would have much less problems. And that's why I'm only suggesting, so a new composition of the Council of Ministers when it comes to launching an amendment to the Foreign Trade Chamber Act and saying it's a voluntary association, and we're going to solve a lot of problems and give full authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8164	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8165	Dear Chairman, therefore, we have today's Commission Information, and we have had several meetings on the Commission, information, but all of this information cannot address all the problems that are related, practically, this ministry and the BiH Chamber of Commerce. So, I've spoken to the Commission several times, and even today just briefly, I won't really owe much to meet my colleagues. It is mentioned here several times by the NGO Chamber of Commerce. Right now I want to fence myself, it's not an NGO formed by the law of three people, three people and funded by foreigners, it's not about such NGOs. She is and has the status of an NGO, but this is an NGO, whatever you want to call her, which has great powers, and also means of whose main interest must be the economy, the functioning of this country's economic system. So, whatever information today has been given to colleagues who are not members of this committee, who have been dealing with these problems for months, would not be able to draw conclusions on what is the underlying problem. So our main talker is the Council of Ministers, as our institution, and then this ministry. Just on one example, what did Honorable colleague Martinović say, a court dispute, do you know where this came from? They were workers of the Chamber of Commerce, employed there and separated, I don't know what's already happened, they set up their new NGO for these bar codes, publishing, and they call themselves names and get a solution that they can issue bar codes and now this dispute has arrived, not at the Court of BiH, not at some cantonal but in Brussels. We are now waiting for the Court of Justice's ruling in Brussels who is right, and the interpretation has already been given that it has both the right and the Chamber of Commerce and this new organization to issue bar codes. Guys, these are huge means of issuing these other public transportation powers, and I don't know what they're talking about. I insisted on the Commission and here the House of Representatives won't get anything today, no new picture of what's going on there. I don't want to be in the role of arbiter. Our ministry made the best information, but it couldn't have been different. I'm not defending Minister Zirojević here, someone else could have been, but there was no other information to be made. The Ministry... implements the laws that we have passed or the Council of Ministers in, of course, the domain of their powers. But I repeat once again, it's about an NGO. But I repeat five more times, not a foreign-funded NGO, our NGO. And instead of the NGO, the Chamber of Commerce, establishing the first coordination between the entity's 41 chambers and the cantonal chambers of commerce, to find unity, they immediately headed towards the Council of Ministers, according to this ministry, according to Parliament, towards Brussels. And they failed to agree on the level of chambers of commerce and to bring all these businessmen together into one association, so that they should be a roof organization, which is logical, but that they respect the opinion of entity chambers. And what's going on? The BiH Chamber of Commerce opens a detachment in Banja Luka, its representation. Well, guys, it's such an absurdity. What does that mean? This means that they humiliate the Chamber of Commerce, that they don't think it for nothing, and in the same rank, they don't want to co-operate with them, they don't want any coordination with them, without talking about these cantonal ones, they can't even count when they sit down to negotiate. So there are basic problems. Now, I'm going back to the main one and I'm going to finish it. We've given too much meaning to it as an NGO. This is an association of businessmen and all those who do something to get out if there's anything I can do, if anyone wants to buy anything. And we will have to pay attention to this key attention for two reasons, at several previous sessions I said, Croatia is in the EU, release in 2013, Berlin Wall or whatever you want to call it, Chinese, will be on Savi, so we will not be dealing with just border crossings and the Chamber of Commerce, but if we are going to be able to perform anything. So, there's a lot of problems out there. And we at the Commission, yesterday I was restrained, I don't know what I'm really going to do, and I ask you what I'm going to vote for, how I'm going to define myself when this Chamber of Commerce, I don't take whether or not it's legally elected leadership, I don't care, I don't want them to choose who they want, but they won't cooperate with entity chambers. Then how am I supposed to respect theirs without supporting the minister's opinion, no matter how right he is, and he's right here? Gentlemen, sit down and arrange for your association. Does the Chamber of Commerce have a municipal chamber? There isn't. But they have cantonal, they have entity, you agree there and you see what you want, what the interest of the economy is, what is the interest of the exporters, so, if necessary, what is a respected colleague, Bojić, chaired by the Commission, said - a change of law. Who's the law-altering initiative coming from? She's gone, I've never seen her from anyone before. And we were just on this commission in the last term, knowing a respected colleague, Mehmedović, we were just fighting for it, racing on this committee, and we went six, seven or eight times with the bill proposal, not waiting for the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry to propose anyone. And then we came into position, which I don't want any more of us to come at any time, that in the procedure we had parallel bill proposals, whether we as a MP or a committee of united, and the Council of Ministers who then waited for the possibility that they would propose something. And had in the procedure two, three draft laws, it was the same thing. We don't have any initiatives from anyone here. What's the basic problem, here in the end, in the functioning of the economy, in exports, who's stopping it? I don't think this ministry was stopping, but it was giving them support. And I stress that last year, on this committee and this House of Representatives, we commendably, but it will not be published by any journalist, no one is interested – 14 laws from the economic sphere have been passed to facilitate business. To provide all the opportunities for exporters to export what someone wants to buy from us, and we have both business, intellectual, and natural, and I don't know what resources, to offer the market. And no one to affirm it, no one to live. But here comes the NGO, and I'm going to say now, one of them got separated, those three men, made them an agency, someone gave them a solution, they could and came to Brussels. To be tried now in Brussels, the BiH Chamber of Commerce and you and their former workers, that's what I'm going to call them. Three workers, and they're right now, but there's a Chamber of Commerce. And who will now come and say, "Well, yours is the bar you gave me, and this is an illegal bar. And now I'm going to be an arbiter there and judge. So, countless things and countless complications in that entire chain. I don't know how it didn't occur to anyone to say that – people, wait a minute, all of you who do this are doing it to harm the exporters and the businesses of this system and any functioning of this system! 42 And I'm done, I've heard from my colleagues here that this ministry has done something. No, this ministry here didn't do anything wrong, just obeying the laws passed by this parliament and they're in effect, not being brought by Brussels. We brought them in, this ministry was just using it, pointing to certain problems in the functioning of that institution there, the other one, maybe there's going to be a third one, and there's a problem. And whatever information we get, I don't think the House of Representatives can tell who's right here based on any discussion or exposure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8166	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirsad Đugum, a replica, a false allegation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8167	Dear Chairman, I would point out that we have no quorum at point 67, that we have 16 MPs, and it's a minimum of 22 for work.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8168	In accordance with Article 67(1), at the request of the Chair of the Alliance for a Better Future, the Honorable MP, Mirsad Đugum, we find that there is no quorum for work and in accordance with the same article's position (3) I give a break of up to half-four. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8169	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing the operation of the 19th session of the House of Representatives. Ambassador Petar Kunić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8170	Thank you, Chairman. Well, let me put it this way very briefly. In fact, it seems to me that the legislator hasn't settled,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8171	I'd like to ask the MPs for some attention. The word has been given by Ambassador Petar Kunić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8172	...the question of public authority, what are public authority and that apparently many do not understand that question. I apologize for that. This is an independent and non-profit association, therefore, but it has received public authority from the state by law and then control must exist. But control exists in the domain of public authority. Only in the domain of public authority, not in other forms of jurisdiction. Therefore, that question needs to be resolved. That'll be settled by supplementing the law. Obviously, the agreement between the entities that appear here cannot transfer public powers, so I cannot, because public 43 powers can only be given by law, and this can be given by this parliament, by law. Therefore, there is an amendment and an addition to the law. And the good question is this under the regular number 4 of the Council of Ministers, it's a good question, so it's a great question, so that I don't get into those confrontations that are mentioned, but I need to resolve these legal issues at all, the status of the association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8173	And Boško Tomić's last reported envoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, it's a very serious issue that I've decided to at least try to make a little contribution. The Chamber of Commerce is essential for BiH's economy, first of all, for its development, i.e. for its active participation in foreign markets, i.e. I see the Chamber of Commerce as an association of businessmen, who through investments, which Mr Lijanović spoke of, which is mandatory on the basis of exported goods, that they will invest advertising funds, for propaganda, for the opening of new markets, in order to know why people give it, because I don't see why they would join. For these reasons, I don't think the Chamber of Commerce in this situation has satisfied what it was founded for. If it's based on the law, if there's a possibility, so I see and they have certain divisions, so those who give at least tubs form a new organization. This is a good idea for all those who think that in such a way they can, if this is an association under which Parliament has no jurisdiction at all, then it is necessary to open it up so that all three can agree on each other as a non-governmental sector, register. This is a very good idea for those who are out of work, so they can freely form. Let them issue at least codes, if that's how it's defined. If we are going to edit the Chamber of Commerce that will serve the businesses, then we must do it in a certain way, and it is formed by the law that this Parliament has passed, then we must make sure that this Chamber of Commerce serves its purpose, that is, for the needs of the businessmen. First of all, there was a finding here that the administrative dispute before the Court of BiH was initiated and that no final decision was made, but in the first-degree procedure it was declared incompetent and an appeal was made. And that procedure isn't over. Another controversial detail in this is the choice in the Assembly of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. It is known that only the president of the Assembly and the Assembly can call the elections, the president of the Chamber of Commerce, not the Assembly, announced. Thirdly, in the RS Chamber of Commerce, the RS must have its representatives. That's not required of them either, and there are no representatives. And let's not make it any further. What's the point? The bottom line is, if we here have determined that the Chamber of Commerce is somehow connected to the Ministry of Economic Relations and that we are working together, we see that it doesn't work, let's not get into it now, but I think that the Chamber of Commerce has become a well-tempered center of power, that a number of people live very well there, that they have a lot of resources. We say they're NGOs and we don't have the right to get involved, well, at least if we can change the powers we've given or by law, order or otherwise try to influence, and all in order for businesses to benefit as much as possible from the Chamber they invest in. It seems to me that here, at least when it comes to those, those I spoke to from the Chamber of Commerce or employees there, they are extremely dissatisfied, even saying that there are some 44 people who, in their own way or in their own hands, are trying to arrange relationships as they suit them, not interested much in what's going on in the economy. For these reasons, I propose that the Commission, led by Mr Bojić, try to propose and draw conclusions that will result in amendments to the law and define it. If it is a non-governmental, non-profit, etc., then we know, then we may need to have one of the government institutions that we will have influence on, not to take money, but to be able to connect our businessmen better with Evropa and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8175	... Here's Mr. Lozančić, and let's get Mrs. Ćemalović ready. [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8176	Thank you. I did, Your Honor, report to the President before you closed the debate. So I signed up, among other things, because today I spent a lot of time in different waitings, that I wasn't waiting for nothing. It means that it still makes sense that by this age I have stayed here and because of a number of distinguished colleagues and colleagues who are guessing from where the interest is now to be provided Information on the situation and problems in the functioning of the BiH Chamber of Commerce. Some have quoted the provisions of the law, so I will not repeat, except in short form, that it is a non-governmental, non-profit, independent, etc. organization. However, unlike the Centre of Civil Initiatives or other similar NGOs, this is a different both NGOs and all other organisations. This is an NGO that makes the law lex specialis only for that organization, so we have for all these other law organizations, so I can have three people etc., etc. It is obvious that when the law has been passed, and I agree today with that assessment, that BiH, economic operators in BiH, will need one such association which, to be brief again, will be their service in business with abroad, again, as soon as possible. Then what's the problem? Obviously, there are several questions in this law that may have been unprincipled. If it was intended to be a fully independent, non-profit and non-governmental organisation, it is questionable why the legislator has prescribed mandatory membership in this organisation. If entity chambers are collective members of the Chamber, then we need to see what membership is like in entity chambers, whether it is mandatory or optional. So we need to unify the standards so we can say what kind of chamber organisation we want in BiH. If we want to get into the essence of the problem, then maybe we should think about not only amending this law, here at least in this part of the articles that I think are problematic, maybe it would be good to pass a law on chambers, on chamber organisation, on action in BiH, then define all others, even if in principle, forms of such organisation, and, in particular, I say again, assess whether to define mandatory membership or leave for the assessment of each economic operator as much as it needs services from any of these economic chambers and whether it is ready for such services to pay for the appropriate membership. 45 This law exists – someone has already said it, I think a respected colleague of Hadžiahmetović – for some 10 years and nothing in this Chamber of Commerce has changed except the leadership of the Chamber. There's been 11 years of this. Unlike other NGOs, this association of NGOs, and so on, as we have heard and as some of us know, has significant financial resources and that is why all those interested in this Foreign Chamber of Commerce are interested in its functioning and its problems in its functioning. So, here, to demystify it, one reason is also the fact that no matter what it has always been defined as a non-governmental, independent, etc., at different times, different political structures have had a significant impact on the choice of the Chamber leadership. This time, they took themselves a little bit, to be honest with each other and for themselves, and they didn't consult... any policy, no political party, and they chose leadership as they thought to choose and the court confirmed that it was absolutely legal. So we can be dissatisfied now that there's one and it's not the other, but those are the facts. So if we want to deal with this issue essentially, I will support every conclusion to get into serious consideration of this issue until we pass a new law. But certainly to review the provision of mandatory membership in both the Foreign Chamber and the entity chambers, because they are transferred, because entity chambers are collective members of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, so it would not be logical to make one compulsory and one optional. Here, so I will also support my praises, I must say, on correct reporting and correct engagement of the competent commission, here, on the basis of his information we can draw the necessary conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8177	Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8178	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome everyone present. I checked in before the break, but I went to a meeting, so I postponed the discussion. Let me just say a few words, since I am also a member of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, where this problem in the functioning of the Foreign Chamber has been discussed several times. Let me refer to the opinion of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, which pointed to certain gaps. Here under 1st, he says: 'Unlawful way of making the decision to call the elections in the Authorities of the Chamber for the 2010-2014 term'. I must point out this: that the foreign trade ministry has asked the BiH Ministry of Justice for administrative oversight of the elections carried out, but the minister of justice in the seventh month of 2010 annulled the administrative inspector's decision. In a court case, the BiH Court in March 2011 rejected the suit for illegal elections in the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. The BiH Court of Justice's Board of Appeal confirms the Council's decision on administrative disputes with the Court of Justice. So, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce has proved, by means of a final decision by the Court, that it has conducted an election procedure in accordance with the law. So I'm a little confused by this comment from the Ministry. The second comment is this: parallel release of bar codes of the Association... at the Chamber etc. Anyway, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce... was admitted to the International Organization by the General Assembly in May '95. Yes, she was, meanwhile, resolved, in which way and how, 46 I have to point out the following, which is that a administrative dispute has been initiated before the Court of Justice of BiH, so that related to the Association... BiH, I would not discuss this, but the Court will say a final solution, finally an opinion. Under the third we have the distribution of the detective, which is mentioned, otherwise, giving these work permits to perform construction work abroad. BiH signed an International Agreement with German and Slovenian partners, where the Foreign Chamber of Commerce is responsible and responsible for the arrangements concerning the detashmans. Indeed, there we must admit that the Foreign Chamber of Commerce also has problems related to entities and cooperation with entities, because entities, indeed, are stalling with business complaints against them, which are not resolved until the end of the Detachment year. Because the actual entity chambers of appeal are being delivered by delay, even delays can be up to a year late. And one more item to mention, which is to carry out administrative and technical and operational tasks for the National Committee for Professional Training in Road Transport of Passengers, Loads and Dangerous Substances by the Chamber. The truth is here next. According to the Regulation on the conditions and procedure of issuing licences for carrying out international road transport of passengers, cargo and hazardous materials, since 2005, the External Chamber of Commerce has been performing administrative and technical and operational tasks for the National Committee. Furthermore, the Minister of Communications and Transport BiH adopted a Decision on the discharge of members and termination of the work of the National Committee for Professional Training in the road transport of passengers, cargo and dangerous substances in May 2011, so that the Foreign Chamber of Commerce has no legal basis to carry out administrative and technical and operational tasks anymore. Furthermore, it has been found that the funds of the National Committee from the special account of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce are being transferred to the account of the BiH institutions' vault, as over a million KMs located in the Foreign Chamber of Commerce are being mentioned here. On 19 September 2011, the Foreign Chamber of Commerce sent a letter to the Ministry of Communications, the Finance Department, to deliver the transfer account number as soon as possible, but the ministry did not respond. But here, it's beautifully written here as if those funds were standing and not being transferred. So, since September, there's been over half a year to point out the possibility of transfering funds but it's not done. That's why we can't look at everything black and white. One big truth is that there are really problems in functioning between the Foreign Chamber and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Affairs. But here, there are still things where the Court hasn't solved, but there are things where the Court has decided positively for the Foreign Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8179	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the 10th agenda. We're going to the 11th point, Ad. 11. Selection of one representative of the academic community in the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and coordination of the fight against corruption 47 As you know, the Commission has provided us with the name of a candidate. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 12th point of the agenda: Ad. 12. Selection of three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8183	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8184	The tech's down. All right, come on. The word is Mr. Zvonko Jurišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 48 Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs, here I am, at one of the sessions I launched an initiative at the 12th session of the House of Representatives, which means what it says, as you read it. And not to say it again, but here's what I have to say and what's the reason for starting my own initiative and giving a few arguments in favour of this initiative. We are already at the first, or second point of the agenda today, and you yourself said, MPs have received answers to the questions asked, and some MPs have commented and some have not. The question of similar content at the session today was received by counterpart Slavko Jovičić, a representative at the House of Representatives, who read about: Is it a secret of state to know how many employees are in the workplaces and their positions paid from the budget? Thus, the question of similar content was raised by the distinguished representative Petar Kunić: How many of the employees of civil servants and deputies are in the executive structures of the Council of Ministers, state administration bodies, administrative organisations, etc.? There have been such questions before, and I am saying, since I have seen it, I have made little effort, so I have done a comparative analysis of the answer from the same authority, that is, the Council of Ministers of BiH, both for my colleague Jovičić and for the distinguished representative, Petar Kunić. So I'll give you some information as to what answers they've received. For example, the foreign ministry, the answer to Mr Kunić, is that they have 467 employees, according to counterpart Jovičić, 519, and the 2010 audit report says that... 527 employees were employed. Now I'm asking, since this has taken a long time, the finance minister has been here, asking all of us – how many employees are there at the Foreign Ministry? Either it is 467 as Mr. Kunić received the answer, or it is 519 as Mr. Slavko Jovićić received, or that is 527 as reported in the 2010 audit report. The finance and vault ministry, which means 157 according to Mr. Kunić, 163 according to Mr. Jovičić and the audit report said he has 157. The drastic difference is the Ministry of Transport and Communications, we have one answer to 86, and the other we have 109. The audit report says 100, the 2010 average. The Human Rights and Refugees Ministry 92 says in response to Kunić; 99, a response to Mr. Jovičić, and an audit report for 2010 says 106. When I put this number together, it means somewhere on 21-22 thousand employees, we're losing one 300 people somewhere. So, according to these different answers and the same questions. And we get answers from the same organ. Here's the facts. So I'm sorry, maybe the Committee on Finance and the Budget, which in some way rejected this request because it's clear to all of us that the answers that we've received to keep are accurate, and I am responsible for saying that these answers are neither accurate nor valid, that those who prepare these answers are hiding something there. And that's why I support that initiative -- whether it's a secret, obviously, is a secret, if we say that the Central Election Commission has 69 employees in one response, in the second 78, in the third 113, etc. Here, these are arguments that I can testify that perhaps for this initiative, no matter what the decision of the Finance and Budget Committee was, but I hope that if we put this initiative to the vote today, and there's no reason why the MPs would just support us holding one of these thematic sessions that those responsible people, as we said, from the administration, agencies, from the office, are just exactly what we have for the Archives in all those 17, everything else is different. So what I've read, I've cited a few more drastic examples, the rest is different. I don't know, the Institute of Standardization, by one answer 35, by the second 39, by the third 36. Now I'm wondering what's real there, 35, 39 or 36. We may be paying someone out of this budget, since all those who have any private business or business know very well how much they pay 49 shares and why. Since money is shared here from the state budget, and the state is nobody's, then if seven workers don't know if there are five or seven, in one answer we have five, in the other seven, then what can we talk about. The other thing I wanted to say is that all those who run these agencies and these institutions and what's important is that we see, there were several questions here, and the national structure, or names and names of these people. It means names and last names. It's true that here this committee was led by one fact that we were saying that there are lease agreements, there are. Did these leases get a thorough contest or did someone sign it, and did, based on a private line? I'm a witness. I recently asked here in Sarajevo to rent a party space. I could rent it for 15 marks. That same man rents 25 marks for one ministry, 25 marks! Is there a public tender or not? I guarantee that if we put in order that the BiH institution's budget for what we don't need to give, and to direct that money into better business, which our people would say, is, that we can certainly make big savings there. Who or who gave the right to one of these people to hit the space for 40 marks per square is neither the center, nor the zone, is it possible, and in the central zone this space can be taken, and does it mean for 20 or 15 marks, there was once a public tender for the rental of that space? Here, if we MPs chosen from the people here, what they say, we dive our heads into the sand, I don't think it's okay, but that we should just all go through, one by one, and say: I have the employee, this, this, that, the lawyer, the economist, the engineer, I don't know either, the politician, the journalist, by the national structure of the Hrvat, the Srbin, the Bošnjak, and let's see it. Because we obviously won't get that kind of answer, that kind of knowledge, if we get these answers. Here, get into this a little bit, these are the facts, so this isn't told, this is no policy, these are clear arguments. And for these answers they've provided to their colleagues, it means the same body in a month, so let them wonder how they do their job. But here, I hope we have an understanding of the new Council of Ministers and we get all this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8186	I'm closing the debate within this point. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Declaration on BiH MPs' initiative Is anyone answering for a word within this point? I don't think there's any need, it's all clearly written. There are no reports. 50 We move to the 15th point of the agenda: Ad. 15. Declaration on the initiative of Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8189	The chairman, since my initiative was not writtenly explained and on the Constitutional Legal Commission, the members of the Constitutional Commission expressed their wish to hear and to hear an explanation for the launch of this initiative, I would also say from the report on what the Court of Justice, what the Prosecutors of BiH, what the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and from the analysis of the Authority for the implementation of the State Strategy for War Crimes Processing, shared in all these reports and analyses, is that they all acknowledge that there has been a stalemate in the implementation and the State Strategy. Of course, each of them has their own arguments. For example, in an analysis of the prosecution, it states as one of the shortcomings that the Criminal Procedure Act needs to be improved. But in order to bring in, in order to have a full review and to get an assessment of what may be needed to improve, I think we need to analyse all these institutions, and the BiH Prosecutor's Office, and the BiH Court, and the Authority for the Implementation of the State Strategy for War Crimes Processation. And when we have these analyses of each and every one of them, that we eventually make some intersection here, to see if maybe that strategy itself is not good. Could she have been too ambitious? Maybe she has some shortcomings, too, and it's about the document behind which the state stands, so as soon as it's called, and let's see if there's a way to improve certain laws to make it more efficient to implement that strategy. So, I would, if, of course, this initiative was supported, that the discussion was going in that direction, that we would do our part of the work that would help implement this strategy more effectively and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8190	Thank you. The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8191	I gave up, I gave up.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8192	You gave up. No more reports. Before we move to the 16th item of the agenda, I suggest that the House declare ourselves to bring together the debate on points 16 to 29 of the agenda, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratifying the agreement. Please prepare to vote. Vote now, in line with this recommendation by MP Džaferović. 51 I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority, that we have accepted this proposal. Ad. 16. - 29. Granting consent You have been given the opinion of the committee responsible for external affairs on ratification consent. I'm opening a debate. No reports, or are there? Mr. Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8194	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, for signing up with intent, with a proposal... conclusion, not according to this one, but I assume you're finishing the debate on the agenda, so we have, the SNSD and SDS MEPs Club, the proposal is to delay the statement on points 3, 4 and 6 of the agenda, which you will see in this, here, you will get this conclusion. So we propose to postpone the statement on points 3, 4 and 6 of the adopted agenda. Well, here's a proposal for our conclusion, so I'm asking the service to... I apologize for being so... [[Disable microphone]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8195	We're not happy that these first two are connected to this third one, but there you go. Okay. In the end, I have one good and one bad news for you. It's good that we've absorbed the agenda and probably bad for you that the vote is at 17.45. It's a college decision, we've got this meeting with sorensen, and we can't do it before. [[Common discussion]] Please let me... Here are the members of the College, if counterpart Belkić does not convince us otherwise, they agreed that we should still move and vote in about 5 minutes. [[Disable microphone]] Here, let's try that. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8198	The other one.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8199	... We move to the 9th item of the agenda: BiH's Law Department's 2010 report. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entityal majority, that we have adopted this report on the work of the Attorney General. We move to the 10th item of the agenda: Information on the state and problems in the functioning of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of Bosnia and Herzegovina We are voting here on receiving information, but here we have just received a proposal for a conclusion on the discussion of the State and Problems in the functioning of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce provided by MP Borislav Bojić. Let's talk about this conclusion first. Branka, how do you run this...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8200	I have no idea what they want with it, it's a House of Representatives...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8201	Have all MPs received this proposal? No, it's just being delivered, we'll wait a minute or two, let this be delivered to you on the benches.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8202	To initiate the procedure maybe until the adoption... 54 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8203	We can do that, but here's the deal, so nothing, we'll vote on this conclusion first, then.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8204	I'd say here to initiate the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8205	Ha, what do we do now that the man... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8207	How do you start the procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8208	We need to get someone to prepare.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8209	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8210	Okay. I hope all MPs have won the benches of this proposal. We vote first on this conclusion and then on receiving information. Please prepare to vote on this proposal for a conclusion delivered by MP Borislav Bojić. Vote, now! I have my doubts about the vote and I ask that the vote be repeated. Please prepare to vote again. Vote, now! I find that this proposal has not yet received the necessary majority. We are now going to vote on receiving information. Please prepare to vote. Who's to receive information for knowledge? I find that we have received information, we have sufficient number and general majority and entity majority. 55 We move to the 11th item of the agenda: The selection of one representative of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. We vote on the appointment of Milenko Obad as representative of the academic community in the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. Please prepare yourselves. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority and that we have appointed Mr. Milenko Obad as the representative of the academic community on this committee. We move to the 12th point of the agenda: The selection of three members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency. We vote in the package on proposed candidates, which are: Čičić Mirsad, Ljubić Frano, Pašalić Stevo
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8211	Čičić Muris.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8212	It says Čičić, is Čičić all right?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8213	Yes, Čičić is, but I have Muris.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8214	- Muris? My name is Mirsad.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8215	Wait a minute, I'm sorry, we'll take a look.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8216	Let's check it out.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8217	Muris, Muris, Čičić Muris.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-19-0.u8218	Okay. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary general majority, the necessary entity majority and that we have adopted these proposed three candidates in the package. 56 We move to the 13th item of the agenda: Envoy Zvonko Jurišić's initiative. Prepare to vote. We're voting on the adoption of the initiative, that's right. Vote, now! This second half of the Croatian community is unable to gain greater support. Here's the general majority we need, but we don't have the entity majority. Are we going to get back together or are we going to do it right now? We're going to the polls right now. Please prepare to vote, we vote in the second round. Vote, now! I do realize, however, that the initiative has been accepted. We move to item 14 of the agenda: Statement on the initiative of the BiH MPs Please prepare for the vote. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary and general and entity majority, that we have adopted this initiative. And within this point, we are now voting on a proposal for a conclusion from the Joint Commission's opinion. Do I need to read it? The conclusion, therefore, is: 'It is suggested that the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives' College of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is asked by the Council of Ministers to provide adequate material for the discussion, which would be made up of its own materials and materials of the International Monetary Fund and of the World Bank.' Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! I find that we have both the necessary and the general and the entity majority, that this conclusion is also adopted. We move to the 15th item of the agenda: Declaration on the initiative of Parliament Aleksandra Pandurević I invite you to prepare for the vote. Vote, now! So we vote on the adoption of the initiative. I doubt the vote, please repeat the vote. Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! We have the general majority, we don't have the entity majority of the ex post alignment. 57 _________(?) We can do it now. I suggest we stay out of trouble, Sorensen waits. Let's move on. We propose that we vote first on all agreements between points 16 and 29 in the package. Please vote now. Sorensen is pleasantly surprised to have found MPs in the working atmosphere. So we have the necessary general and entity majority. We vote now on granting consent to ratification of the agreement from point 16 to point 29. Vote, now! I find that we have the necessary general and entity majority, that we have ratified these agreements. Please finish the session, if you'll excuse me for 30 seconds. So, I note that the 20th House of Representatives session is planned for February 2nd, if the need arises, we will call it sooner. I would also like to remind you that my colleague and colleague Milorad Živković, who want a successful presidency from tomorrow, will take over from this distinguished home, and I would like to thank you for your co-operation and correct relationship. I'm closing the 19th session and thank you again. The seat's finished at 16:45.
