ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10810	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 30th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the Bureau, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home, media representatives. I warmly welcome all arrivals of MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MPs Dušanka Majkić and Danijela Martinović. According to service information, 30 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Allow me, before I move to the agenda, to get to know you, it was also yesterday the topic of an extended college conversation, that from the amended and updated agenda, which you have before you, is point 8. Report on the work of the Commission to preserve national monuments. It has been established that the Parliamentary Assembly is not in charge of its consideration, but the BiH presidency has been considering the report for the past two years. In view of this, the College of the House received the report and delivered it to the MPs. Point 9 is added to the agenda. The appointment of members of the Central Election Commission in the order of the Serb and Bosniak people. Since the Interim Joint Commission of both homes for the implementation of procedures for the selection of four members of the Management Board of the High Education Development and Quality Security Agency has submitted a proposal for a single candidate ranking, we have also carried out a discussion, we have also warned of provisions in the law concerning the start of the electoral process, so this will be a subject and we will see whether we will go to the vote or we will postpone it with certain conclusions. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10811	Here, I'll do it very briefly. Not to slow down, of course, what you said, the argument when it comes to the 2011 Work Report of the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments, but I don't think it's forbidden, nor would it be harmful, on the contrary, it would be very useful if we had this information today, for two few reasons. First of all, several MPs in several earlier years were asking questions and looking for information on the work of this commission. That's one thing. Secondly, I think it is an institution, originally a Dayton institution, and that the BiH Assembly should at least know what this commission is doing. And who read the report had the opportunity to see that there were really very important and huge jobs. And I'm really expressing, I'm really sorry that she's off the agenda. And as for the appointment of members of the Central Election Commission, I was very focused and argued that this whole thing was not in accordance with the law, and that we did not need this haste so much, indeed, to endanger one liquid, so to speak, one achievement that, when it comes to elections, we achieved and rated in the world as a democratically organised country, when it comes to this issue. No matter what we do today, we could just do today to extend our mandate to the end of this election process, and then name these people. Because otherwise it will happen to us, their mandate expires in July, so the mandate expires in July, if you, or today we say to some conclusion that the appointment decision is valid after the election process, we will have a vacuum and we will question plus Mostar and some other things, we will question what we have achieved so far when it comes to elections. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10812	Thank you. Let me try to answer you to, let me say, these two inconsistencies. First, it was established that this report, which has been the subject, has been discussed for the past two years and we have delivered every MP to look at it, counting that one of the MPs will make an initiative, which you can do on parliamentary issues, in order to be part of the debate here in Parliament or the agenda point where even the Presidency would deliver its report to us. Why twice? The report is negative... so that according to the Rules of Procedure couldn't have been the point of the agenda, and the only reason it was taken down. Secondly, when we discussed the formation of our Commission for the selection of CEC members, nowhere, I took a stenogram, we did not adopt a conclusion in a coma, because in the debate it was that the Commission would work and that we would then determine whether we would vote on these candidates, so that the agenda point had to be in this form, and we, within that point and debate, can put those conclusions, which you mentioned, if they were in writing, to put to the vote, to see how it would go. Here, I hope I've been able to explain these two points. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10813	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I think that my colleague Belkić has actually marked both topics on which I only want to say a few sentences. I would like to inform you that at its last session, the Constitutional Commission discussed the report on the work of the Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments of BiH in 2011, and we are doing nothing without first receiving a task from the College. So that's the Commission's job. And I'm a little surprised that you've now made a decision not to be a part of the agenda, and the Constitutional Commission, as a workshop and a competent commission, has been in charge of you as executives, who receive these materials in our Rules of Procedure and you give them to the competent commissions for further action, has done that part of the job. It's a little weird for me, but here's your right to do it anyway. I share the opinion of my colleague, Belkić, that there is no harm in keeping this one on the agenda, to discuss it. It's a very important matter, it's an annex, one of the annexes of the Dayton Peace Agreement. This is a very, very important problem in BiH, but not to waste our words now, you have made the decision you have made. And secondly, I have no objection to this point about the Election Commission being on the agenda, but, when we get to the vote, then I'm going to ask that the electoral law be fully respected, which speaks of when appointments can be made, when no appointments can be made, so according to what I was talking about at the last session when we discussed the appointment information. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10814	Thank you. Let's not make a big deal out of this, the College has sent a report to the Constitutional Commission just because we weren't sure if we were competent to discuss it or not, and that we're looking for the opinion of our Constitutional Commission on that. And you have, in your own good practice, written your report about adopting the Report and having to go to the Assembly, and you have not given us the correct answer as to whether it is our jurisdiction and how we can formulate the agenda. So obviously there was a little misunderstanding, not that the College wanted to decide one way or another, you know. Replica, dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10815	You see, Mr. Chairman, not really wanting to get into some deeper controversy about this issue, I think the Constitutional Commission report is quite clear. So he's given an answer to the questions, he's short, but he's clear. The Constitutional Commission took note of this and delivered it to the House of Representatives for further discussion. From this you can read everything you need, but of course you have the right to make the decisions you've made, and I just wanted to remind you of the total flow of things. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10816	Thank you. If there is no more discussion, I will conclude the debate and I will conclude that the 30th session of the House has the following 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 29th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. The request of MPs Ismet Dervoz, Mirsad Đugum, Adnan Bašić and Emir Kabil to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Conflict of Interest in 4 BiH authorities under emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Law No 01-02-1-2512, of 11. Six. 2012; 4. Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-12, of 11. 1. 2012 (second reading); 5. The College's report on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Beriz Belkić on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, which reads as 'The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge of delivering the draft amendment of the Law on Citizenship of BiH, which will only be treated by members of Article 17 and 39 (1) and in accordance with the BiH Constitutional Court Decision'; 6. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mladen Bosić on the draft Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of BiH Law, with the opinion of the Commission on Transport and Communications, and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Television Service of BiH, with the Opinion of the Commission on Transport and Communications, which reads 'The House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH tasks the Commission for Transport and Communications to organise a discussion on the functioning and financing of the Public TV System, i.e. BHRT, RTRS, FTV – and that, in accordance with the conclusions, it initiates amendments to the Law on the Public TV System of BiH and the Law on Public TV Service of BiH; 7. Report on the work of the Interresor Working Group to prepare amendments and additions to the Election Law, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH Authorities, material No 01,02-50-14-30-1712, of 6. Six. In 2012, 8 / 8 Selection of four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency (Rang-list of candidates of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes, No 01,02-50-14-31-512, of 8. Six. 2012); 9. The appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH in the order of the Serb and Bosniak people, material number 01-50-19-71212, of 12. Six. 2012 (List of Commission candidates for the selection and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH); 10. A statement on MP Šemsudin Mehmedović's initiative from the 26th session of the House of Representatives, held on 19th. 4. In 2012, which reads 'In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives (“the Official Messenger of BiH”, No. 3306, 4106, 8106, 9106, 9107 and 8709), I refer to the initiative to include a point called Considering the reduction of salaries and the suspension of other fees to Members of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the agenda of the BiH Parliament's House of Representatives. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. One Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 29th session of the House of Representatives 5
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10820	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome everyone present. Here, with this answer, I will only comment that I had reason, meaning fat, to ask this question, for the reason that individuals in this House said that this assembly of Parliament was the worst, and the fact is this: in the first eight months, when the chairman was Mr. Denis Bećirović, compared to the previous term, the first eight months, it can be seen that the session was held more, that two times more points were considered. Furthermore, two times more ratified international agreements, ten times more adopted reports and two times more adopted conclusions, which I congratulate our previous chairman and I expect you to be as effective as he is in the first eight months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10821	You can hardly beat that. Dear colleague Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10822	No microphone 6 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10823	No more reports. Moving on to: b) New parliamentary issues You can sign in, please. Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović, as the fastest hand. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10825	Thank you. Well, here's the clagworth that was already given a comment on the question you just asked. And if anything is such a skillful game of numbers, this is exactly what colleague Ćemalović was talking about and also her question and answer to her question. Among other things, let's say the elemental thing when looking for parallel indicators is that they're asked for the same period, so in that sense I'm going to ask the question. So: 'I am asked to be provided with comparative indicators on the work of the Parliamentary House for the first eight months, from the date of publication of the official results of the elections, from October 2010, hence the current term of office and for the same period of the previous term of office of the House of Representatives in the 2006-2010 election period. So, if we are looking for parallel indicators for a certain period of office, then let's go for the same period, and that's: the number of sessions held, the number of items discussed on the agenda, the number of laws adopted in the first and second readings, the number of ratified international agreements, the number of reports adopted and the number of conclusions adopted." I thank you, the parliamentary question is in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10826	Thank you. Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10827	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests, I have a brief question for the Ministry of Transport and Communications of BiH and the Federation of BiH. The question is: 'When will the competent ministry issue approval for the work of the technical examination in Bihac company Autokommerc d.o.o. Biatch?' Explanation: 7 Autokommerc d.o.o. Bihac submitted a request nine. 4. In 2012, it was granted approval after the same function was performed by Alios d.o.o. in the same place with the same equipment. A legitimate question arises whether it is political discrimination or whether it is another background. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10828	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10829	The question is for the Ministry of Transport and Communication: 'Have you considered what you will do about the initiative of a number of delegates of the House of the Peoples of the Federation for Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Basicity of Traffic on Roads in BiH, in a section that requires the mandatory use of lights during the daily drive? This copy of the initiative is attached, and there are reasons and arguments as to why the initiative was launched." And I'm sorry, the moment Mrs Ćemalović commented, she didn't mention the number of passed laws, so it wouldn't be bad if she had mentioned it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10830	Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10831	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, before I ask a parliamentary question, just a small reference to this parallel indicator. I advise you to trust your eyes and what you have experienced here in Parliament, especially those who have been in both meetings, you can follow it. And my question is, it's the result of media inscriptions, it's a very serious thing, and I'm asking for that thing to be checked and investigated. So the parliamentary issue addressed to the BiH Ministry of Security and the RS entity's Ministry of Interior. MP's question: 'Is it true they were on Tuesday night 19. Six. In 2012, members of the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Serbia controlled traffic in Banja Luka by stopping motorists, implementing them to members of the RS MUP who then wrote punishments for various violations? I'm asking a question based on media reports, and I'm asking for this case to be investigated. If the accuracy of the allegations from the media is determined, I ask that the question be answered: How could it happen that members of other state police are in control in the BiH area, and what will be done by BiH and RS institutions so that this no longer happens? Indeed, I will attach a copy of one of the media, from one of the portals in which this is listed. I've read this and I'm asking that this be investigated." That's it, thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10832	Special relations. Dear colleague, First Deputy Chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10833	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I ask a representative question: "Will the Central Election Commission also take the Central Election Commission to remove discrimination against some political parties and citizens that these parties represent, done incorrectly by interpreting and applying the Election Law in the process of reporting local elections? I ask the question to the Central Election Committee and to this Parliament which has passed this law and which is its only relevant interpreter. Reason: The Central Election Commission, the SIP abbreviations organised and conducted by the elections, asked political parties to collect citizens' signatures for the application of local elections by municipalities if these parties did not have their council members in municipal councils, although they had their representatives at higher levels of government, in county parliaments, entity parliaments and state parliaments. This was contrary to Article 4(5) of the basic Regulation. Election law. I quote: The political party is exempt from the obligation to collect the signatures referred to in Article 4(4) of this Act and in the case where an application for a certificate of candidacy is submitted for an authority which is at the same or lower level than that in which a member of the political party has a mandate. Although some parties have warned the Central Election Commission of the provisions of this member of the Electoral Chamber, the SIP has repeatedly sought in its response to the collection of signatures from political parties. I note that in the previous local SIP elections, in accordance with the cited Article 4(5), he acted correctly and did not request signatures from political parties. That the SIP misread the Electoral Law is also evidenced by the decision of the BiH Court of Appeal on the SDA lawsuit, which was declared illegal by the SIP decision, and has been ordered by the SIP to verify the SDA's application for certain municipalities in RS even though they have not delivered the requested signatures, and they do not have elected council members in the municipalities' congregations. They submitted their application on the basis of a statement by the holder of a higher-level mandate, in this case by representatives in the RS Assembly. In an incorrect interpretation of the Electoral Law and the responses to the political parties, the SIP forced political parties, which respected the letters, to collect the backlogs or to give up the party's application for individual municipalities. This, in some cases, made it impossible for these political parties to participate in the elections although the parties intended to participate, leaving voters without being able to vote for their political party. The SIP thus made these local elections irregular and non-democratic. I believe that the SIP should apply the Electoral Law as decided by the Court of BiH, enable registration and other parties, and give a new deadline for the coalition's application. In addition to this question, I submit a review of a timely memo by the HDZ political party '90 sent to the SIP for interpretation of the Electoral Law and notice of the SIP which is contrary to the latest decision of the BiH Court of Appeal." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10834	Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10835	Thank you. Dear Chairman, co-chairman, fellow Members and fellow Members, I welcome you all together. For today, I have questions for two institutions, and a parliamentary question for the BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications: '1. What about the document Policy and the BiH Transport Strategy? 2. What is it and how long has it been since the Law on International and Interentity Road Transport? Third question: 3. When can we expect the start of the work of the Transport Safety Council on BiH roads, since the same has not been met for more than two years?" Question for BiH Direct Taxation Directorate: 'How long has it been since the implementation of the National Transport System in BiH?' I ask this question because it is one of the most important conditions for interoperability and communication, i.e. BiH's readiness to transport goods from the EU and the EU, i.e. the conditions of BiH's accession to the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10836	Thank you. Dear colleague Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10837	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I have an initiative on general indifference in BiH's economy that is characterized by a lack of money in circulation and a reduced ability to meet the obligations of companies and the government sector. This is evidenced by data from the BiH Central Bank that in the first half of 2012, 32,539 companies had blocked accounts, compared to January 2011, 4,000 more blocked companies. Some other data suggest a level of demand in the business and public sector of around 20 billion KM or slightly less than 80% of gross domestic product. A negative flow of liquidity development threatens to restore BiH's economy in a natural way of doing business in which mutual compensation becomes the basic means of paying and maintaining businesses in life. The event of non-proliferation is equally serious in both entities, which still confirms the existence of a single economic system in BiH, but on one negative example. Individence poses a serious threat to the existing level of economic activity, and without its resolution, it is difficult to talk about speeding up economic growth. Without entering this opportunity for the reasons described, I would like to refer the initiative to the BiH Ministry of Treasury and Finance to prepare, in cooperation with the BiH Central Bank and the entity finance ministries, information on the state of liquidity in the BiH business and public sector and consider, as part of other measures to remove the cause and mitigate 10 indifference, the possibility of implementing a multilateral compensation in BiH in which companies and all public sector institutions in BiH would participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10838	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10839	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. I have one question for the BiH Council of Ministers and the BiH Directorate for European Integration: 'Are any activities taken so far or initiatives are launched for the adoption of a strategic document on BiH's European integration? When will BiH receive the integration strategy and why has this important document not been prepared and adopted so far?" I don't think a particular explanation is necessary, and I'm at my disposal if it's necessary to explain this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10840	Thank you. Dear colleague Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10841	Dear Chairman-in-Office, question to the Council of Ministers: "Is the Internal Organisation Regulation adopted by the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency against Corruption BiH? Not according to my information. If it is not, why and what are the reasons why it is not done?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10842	No more reports. We're going to the third point, Ad. 3. The request of MPs Ismet Dervoz, Mirsad Đugum, Adnan Bašić and Emir Kabil to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of House of Representatives 11 11. Six. In 2012, those MPs submitted a draft law requiring urgent consideration. I'm opening a motion hearing. Dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10844	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, guests and media representatives, I would only briefly like to explain why we went to this procedure, and we are all aware that in the last longer period discussions have already been held and that amendments and additions and activities on the amendment and addition of this law are being made. Since there is also real property discrimination in this law, and especially towards people who have so far or have their own property, property property in the private sector, I think that a priority is putting into place that any negative actions can be done, that and excluding these people from being able to function in both executive and legislative authorities is a negative process. I think that they must and have mechanisms that can control any legal enforcement procedures under another legal procedure and that it is absolutely negative to eliminate anyone from being involved in power. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10845	Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10846	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will try in 2-3 minutes, although this is a debate on the procedure and I understand that it is a debate on the procedure, but since we are voting on everything at the end together, so when the voting procedure usually doesn't have a discussion about the very essence, so let me just say a few sentences. So, for me and here's the SDA Club, it's unacceptable for this law to be discussed by an emergency procedure, and we're going to vote against an emergency procedure. And if such a law comes in any procedure before the MPs, we will vote against such solutions. The reasons are very simple and they can be shown in several sentences. Therefore, it should not be particularly informed so that this initiative has occurred after the last talks on the establishment of a new parliamentary majority and the announcement that certain individuals, certain people, will perform certain functions. And I can't help thinking that what we have as a bill is not creating a solution to this future situation. I think it's inadmissible for a state parliament to act this way. The laws are passed for an undetermined number of future cases, and to pass the law, so to satisfy one political agreement is something that is unacceptable. Political arrangements and staff solutions are made based on existing constitutional and legal solutions, not to make a deal and then ask, or announce an agreement, and then ask for a change of legal solutions. It's something that brings us into some kind of legal uncertainty. And I hope that this Parliament, as the most legislative body in the state, will recognize this thing. And this in itself would be enough reason not to get in the way of changing this law. 12 Another thing concerns solutions themselves. Be careful, here, it is proposed that elected officials, executive officials and advisers, who own the founding capital in private enterprises, are obliged within eight days of the takeover of the public office of management rights in a private company, to be transferred to a person who is not their close relative. Therefore, the existing law in its Article 3, when the definitions are at stake, and subsequently in other provisions, says that the authorised person – and the authorised person is therefore in conflict of interest, so the position is in conflict with the position of the elected official – is considered to be the person who is authorised by the founding act or the company statute to represent and represent the company. An authorised person shall also include an entrepreneur, i.e. a natural person who carries out an activity independently on the market in order to obtain profits. Here, therefore, it now raises the fundamental question of ownership and management rights relations. We are suggested a solution to keep the property the same, to keep it intact, and to move the management rights to another person. The question is, what is the content of ownership, and what is the content of management rights. The content of ownership is regulated by the Law on Property and Legal Relations, and the content of management rights is regulated by the Law on Economic Society. When these two are looked at, I think it will be difficult to separate the position of ownership and management rights content and that this law does not actually solve the fundamentally this issue that is being asked, and that in one circumvention way the situation remains the same. This is especially when considering that this law proposes that governing rights be transferred to people who are not close relatives. Let me remind you that in the definitions of the original text of the Law under 'close' we have a category of 'close relatives' and 'familys'. Close relatives are considered married and out-of-marriage friends, children, mothers, fathers, adoptors, adoptors of elected officials, executives and advisers. And they're just close relatives, and that's just what's being ruled out by the bill. They don't rule out relatives. And relatives are considered close relatives, so these are close, plus relatives in the right line, relatives in the lateral line to the third degree, relatives in the matrimonial to the second degree, and children in the marriage mate. So, I could now talk about what all of this can apply to. These are the reasons why we in the U.S. won't support an emergency procedure, nor will we support the essence if such a text of the law comes to the agenda. I call on Parliament to reject both emergency procedures and the essence of the law itself. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10847	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) 13 At the 26th session, held on 19th. 4., The bill was adopted in the first reading. As the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs twice requested an extension of the deadline for the submission of the report on the Proposal for a Law, held at the 29th session of the House, held on 7. 6, Dom set a new deadline for the delivery of the report, which is 19. Six. In 2012. The report was submitted by the Commission to 20. Six. In 2012, with five amendments adopted which, if passed, become an integral part of it. In accordance with Rule 118(2) of the Rules of Procedure, Saša Bursać (three amendments), Šemsudin Mehmedović (also three amendments) is again defended in the plenary phase of the amendment. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10849	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, you have received a report from the Commission and I think that the Rules of Procedure in Article 108 have been broken because they had a second time of a re-emergence that the amendment and supplementation of the proposed law was not present, nor could it be declared on the proposed amendments, although the Commission could, of course, make such a decision without them, but I say, a breach of the Rules of Procedure has been made. So, I suggest that no debate is being held today, but that the procedure in the adoption of this law be suspended in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that I have already quoted. I really don't know the reasons, nor do I care why everything like this happens in the work of parliamentary committees. I don't blame the representatives of this ministry here, but according to the secretary of our commission's report, they were regularly informed. However, the Rules of Procedure make it clear at point 2. what happens if the proposings or their authorised representative do not attend the next session either, so for the second time, he is believed to have given up the proposal notified by the Commission to the chairman of the House. So, we were only able to reach such a conclusion in that segment that would be in line with the Rules of Procedure and to inform you as chairman and College to suspend the further legislative procedure for the adoption of this law. So I suggest and plead not to go any further, further violating the Rules of Procedure, that this is simply accepted as a fact that I've already talked about, and that's all I think would be rational. And now in that chain who set it all up, how, I don't want to deal with this debate here, because we already have it once, twice, three times and I don't already know, that I'm not going on, two years or four of this law in the procedure of changing and supplementing and only in segments of certain tariff numbers. And then I really don't want anyone imputing to me how we, or here I am in my own name because I'm talking, we don't want to help our businessmen. We want to help, do everything, but in this way we will not help anyone because it is not fully done in the amendments and additions to the Code of Tariff Numbers, and we have made a rational proposal to do so with, of course, the consent and consultation of all the competent in the chain and, say, by 31 December, not waiting for that very 31st December, but to pass that law in that half-year to take those measures or its application from 1 January 2013. Thank you very much. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10850	Thank you. Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10851	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I, as the chairman has already noted, have renewed my three amendments which have not received support, or consent to the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. Of course, I did not insist on the Commission with a view to a uniform approach by all the members of the Commission, but here is the discussion of a respected colleague, Jovičić, who asked me to actually give a few reasons on the renewal of my amendments. In fact, several years ago, we had a more serious procedure in the amendments to the Customs Tariff Act, as the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, in the previous meeting. And then, a respected colleague, Jovičić, promised to the agricultural producers we were visiting firmly that if he did not respect what they were looking for, he would resign. I haven't noticed that by now. Of course, it was a difficult statement by Mr. Jovičić, but any of those demands that farmers ask and expect us to respect. Here's a chance today... to support Amendment number II, which I have restored, in fact, to help this Bosnian-Herzegovina poor, may I say freely, to farmers who are in a very difficult position. In a very difficult position if we know that when agricultural products are matured in BiH, there is a general rush of imported agricultural products from Hungary, neighbouring countries, Macedonia, etc., with prices that our agricultural producer cannot bear. So you have a situation with potatoes, young potatoes 50 fening per kilogram, which our agricultural producer has no chance of going to market with that price. Why? Because both neighbouring, and especially EU countries, have tremendous incentives in relation to the incentives that are in place in BiH. Therefore, in communication with foreign trade and economic relations ministry representatives, I was informed that we have a Stabilisation and Association Agreement signed with the EU with precisely different clauses worth BiH, or EU countries. So EU countries can ban imports, let's say fresh plums from BiH at the time of maturation, and BiH can't ban imports, here's fresh peppers from the EU. Why? So he says, that's how we signed it. It says enough that someone on behalf of BiH, and for the account, here, I won't tell who, signed agreements that are harmful, here, agricultural producers in BiH, I won't tell all farmers. But it's obvious there are certain injustices. And because of that, here's mine, especially Amendment number II, at least partially repairs those things. And I ask you, colleagues, to read it seriously and to support it today when voting on amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10852	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10853	The Honorable chairman, well, well said Mr. Mehmedović but didn't say it all the way. It's true that I said it in front of the farmers, and I'm going to say it again, 'I'm resigning on this committee if I'm powerless to change anything'. And then we did something, so we did a lot of some, I'll say procedures, not in the Commission, but also the House of Representatives accepted, so we helped farmers. And could I have been responsible, as chairman, in the half-term of the previous call, where the Stabilisation and Association Agreement writes, so here I was saying... to help farmers or cattlemen in the RS, where it says 'traffickers up to 50 kg', instead of actually writing that, it says's the import of feral pigs'. Whether I was responsible for such a failure, for such a smile, so I had problems with both the Commission and anyone. A ratified Stabilisation and Association Agreement, we will now not go only with that segment and ask for some changes and additions again. So here's the second thing, I pleaded, and now I'm talking about making a complete or comprehensive amendment and supplementing this tariff law, and not just by certain tariff numbers as to who it comes to, that maybe it should, and then it comes out in public like we're helping someone. With four or five tariff numbers and changes in those tariff numbers, we're not gonna help a lot of farmers, we're not gonna help anybody, and I'm not gonna do anything, I've never done that, speculation. Why did the first law appear from the competent ministry in the procedure of parliament, and I will say by the Council of Ministers? Well, look at today's agenda. Look at the agenda, do we have anything? And tomorrow, don't mind me from the Centre of Civil Initiatives, it's not your fault, but you're writing it wrong, too -- the Parliamentary Assembly, the unemployed, they didn't adopt anything, they passed 2% of the law. Can I adopt one when I don't have a normal proposal? Can I go out and discuss it? Can I have a discussion? I can't. So, and what Mr. Mehmedović said didn't apply to that. If I'm responsible, and even as an MP, I don't need any resignation, I'm going. I don't need anyone to make me. But this hastily been said to be powerless to do anything. That was the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10854	Thank you. Speaker of the House, distinguished representative Dr. Milorad Živković, discussed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10855	Thank you. The continuity of the SDA policy from Dejton is that one day they vote, and the next day they change their minds, and that's nothing new. As was voted for by CEFTA, as was voted on by the Law of Salaries, here is as it was voted for everything else. But it's also the continuity to take away RS's powers in as large a number as possible, which is currently being done in this law, and that's the whole story. And that's why SNSD MPs won't be for this law. Not to help agricultural producers, not to help people who work here in BiH and earn money, which can be done so that the Council of Ministers delivers to this Parliamentary Assembly an adequate proposal and that here Parliament's 16 assembly discusses it and adopts it or not adopts it, not that behind closed doors in the Council of Ministers, even by voting, there are certain situations and that after that we are opening here in Parliament, one year after that, certain questions about who was making any decisions, that some products are allowed to import, for other products banned from imports, etc., away from the eyes of the public, away from parliamentary discussions here and away from allowing this jurisdiction from this Parliamentary assembly, where there is an entity way to protect interests and RS, transferred... to the Council of Ministers. Behind us are the institutions of the RS, such as the Ministry of Finance, which in its 26th memo 1. In 2012, he not only warned that a violation of the Law on Direct Taxation Administration was committed but also stated that the transfer of competence from this Parliamentary Assembly to the Council of Ministers. It's also Ministry of Finance 26. 4th delivered to all MPs Opinion. Likewise, the chairman of the Board of Directors of indirect taxation, Mr Nikola Špirić, delivered that this law should be withdrawn. Anyway, I'm getting into it, I've already discussed it, who made this law, who suggested it. We are MPs of the last dam to say here if something is not in line with the interests, whether the citizens are interested in the RS or Federation entities, to stop that law there. The Chamber of Commerce, which some MPs here have said has supported this law, in its letter of 5. Seven. In 2011, under 2. The authority in the conduct and adoption of the ICT states strictly that it is the transfer of competences from the Parliamentary Assembly to the Council of Ministers and that it should be returned. In their next memo, they said this law was good, but I reckon they didn't change their mind and they thought the same thing in the first letter they wrote. At the same time, our commission that was now able to work, even though it wasn't, and it delivered its opinion to us on a small, small part that seems to have changed just one letter. amandman II. in point 5, the words 'as at the height of that rate' are deleted and replaced by 'of 10%'. I ask if, by reading the law, read Article 5, the proposal that came from the Council of Ministers, under 5, Article 5 below 5. - The BiH Council of Ministers will prescribe in the customs tariff cases and the value of the goods to which a single customs rate can be applied, which is as high as that rate - and add 10%. We were brought here into what they wanted to do in the Council of Ministers, to determine those customs rates, and here we were brought here to vote now through our commission that it was already 10%. My colleagues, this is too serious a question, a question that hypothetically convinces me that there could be a great space for crime, corruption, secrecy of work, convinces me that this Parliament has been expelled from the decision-making process at the point of the law, the 2nd sub d), and I don't know why I would trust the Council of Ministers to do so on a daily basis if they don't believe me to deliver, firstly, this proposal to this Parliamentary Assembly, and she votes it. Just a story of efficiency to me isn't convincing enough to raise my hand to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10856	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10857	Well, look, one fact is that my colleague Živković is wrong when he says it's a transfer of jurisdiction. The BiH state's exclusive jurisdiction is in customs and customs policies. That's one thing. The second thing, 60% is RS agricultural producers, 17 means, and 40% is from the Federation. Third thing, if you look at it, my amandman III.. It just eliminates what you're talking about. So it is left that the Parliamentary Assembly still gives the last word when it comes to any intervention by the Council of Ministers. So we're going to rule out the possibility of any deal, is it behind the scenes, or far from the eyes and the public. And the third thing, if we talk about the consistency of SDA policy, here, as is already known in public, there will be some new parliamentary majority and there will probably be no SDA and I hope that it will then go to BiH with honey and milk and that it will all go much easier. So here we are, in that sense, giving strong support. Therefore, it is neither from the Federation nor from the SDA in particular, the foreign trade and economic relations minister. And I respect everything that has come from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, both the Commission and the Parliamentary Assembly, and I strongly support it. But I ask you to have as much hearing as you can toward those who can't get rich in agricultural production. At least I haven't met a man like that in BiH. Therefore, I ask you to create a situation where our agricultural producer will at least be partially equal with agricultural producers, both from the neighbourhood and from the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10858	Thank you. Speaker of the House, distinguished representative Dr. Milorad Živković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10859	You don't have to remind us of an old saying that there are three ways for a man to fail, the sweetest thing to do is to get a little showy or the fastest to play luck, or to gamble, and the third to do agricultural production. We all know that here, you know. But also do not say that it is not the transfer of jurisdiction if from this Parliamentary Assembly, which has a mechanism to prevent decision-making, you transfer to the Council of Ministers where voting is allowed. Don't, so you're trying to convince us something that isn't. Thirdly, your amendment applies only to the proposal of point 5 and speaks precisely about that in the last part - except for seasonal customs rates. What does that mean? That we here in Parliament cannot react urgently if the Council of Ministers determines that the seasonal customs rate should be changed, and we here in Parliament raise our hands for that. But you need to convince us, you need to give enough arguments, not some decision in the Council of Ministers, where the vote is allowed, you end it, and after a year I'm making an investigative commission who released the sugar, who banned the plums, etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10860	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10861	I'll do it now and I won't do it anymore. As for the transfer of competences from the Parliamentary Assembly to the Council of Ministers, you are part management. However, the Council of Ministers knows how decisions are made. Therefore, there must be at least one of all three constituent nations, if it is the key 18 decisions. On that side, there is no possibility, as you call it, of voting. But imagine a situation in which you have a rush of paprika from Macedonia. And we are waiting for the parliamentary assembly to meet and we are submitting an initiative to put the Parliamentary Assembly on the agenda, so we give the committee responsible to consider it, so it takes six months, and in six months, whoever imports the pepper from Macedonia will sell it out, and our agricultural producer will fail. Therefore, you can form as many commissions as you want, investigative etc., and regarding sugar, the best colleague Jovičić knows it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10862	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dr. Milorad Živković, chairman of the House, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10863	Here, of course, I've exhausted all my replicas, but let's get this thing on the line. You're talking about decisions, the law says about a policy proposal. The policy proposal is not a decision, it is adopted and can be adopted by revote, decisions taken must include both the chair and the two vice-presidents. The difference is, so this is about a motion that can be overvoted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10864	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10865	Well, I don't know, dear colleague Mehmedović, if I know best, but I know it made my life miserable. It's neither guilty nor due, as it is today that I'm discussing, and what I'm fighting for is really honest to help farmers, and you've said well to those percentages, it's not even important, is 60% in RS, it doesn't matter where we help these people, but in this way how we work we can't help them. We can't help them because they appear, not because of seasonal fruit and vegetables, but because of seasonal proposals for certain changes and additions. I want a whole proposal to change and supplement and let's say – here's the point. But I keep saying, can we, in the chain of alignment and adoption or proposals, refer to parliamentary procedure, achieve everything necessary to come to the law, regularly proposed, to respect the opinions of entity governments, ministries, chambers of commerce, especially of indirect taxation administrations, and to honor ourselves when we discuss on committees such proposals, then in the House of Representatives, we get a clear form. Well, to say it or to say it once, not once or for a thousand times, I don't compare anyone else, I have no right, I speak for myself, I would be proud if anyone in this country could say, under alleged signs of pride, it would be an honor, and now I'm even more proud that no one can say for my political action and the position of the MPs that he ever gave me one mark for anything, so that he gave me a spoon of sugar, which is thousands of tons, so that he gave me the label, so that I could read it again to see what was going on, so that I knew where that factory was, but the fact of the circumstances was just that in that time 19 I was chairman of the commission, and I never heard what was going on that sugar again. But I know that it is bitter for everyone here and without sugar, so such a law that comes into parliamentary procedure, and I just said that it is not a respected Rules of Procedure, no one will ever force me to violate the Rules of Procedure and the BiH Constitution where I signed. When we respect that, we'll have a clearer picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10866	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10867	Thank you, Chairman. I thought we'd be done with that. Now, given the few findings that have been made, I need to react. What the esteemed colleague Jovičić said in one sentence, I think that's the essence of the whole debate, and he said it well. It's about seasonal proposals that occur from time to time and Mr. Mehmedović is one of those seasons that happens to come in and when there's sugar and when it's salt and when it's bitter and when it's angry and when it's a seasonal story and pepper and no pepper, but it's there. He cried out to Mr. Jovičić because he was the chairman of the commission, but he wasn't alone, he wasn't a dictator in that commission, this commission had members. But I do know that some of the members of this committee have strongly lobbyed that this is how it all ends, and Mr. Jovičić explained it really well earlier, but he said that the problem in those seasons is the team that comes in. Here is today Mr. Mehmedović's claim that the manufacturer will continue to fail if these import lobbys do not stand well. Well, I heard the other way around, I guess the story is that they're having problems with it. It's not their problem, it's their guess. The other thing, as said, is the difficult situation in agriculture, which we all know, and turns out to be there's no abuse in agriculture, there's, there's, there's a lot of, uh, huge abuses. Given the competences, 99% of abuses refer to BiH level, and huge abuses are at that level. sezonac will not abuse the whole proposal and talk about nuts going through BiH, how domestic producers can't give it, buy it, because they, as counterpart Jovičić says, are going through the air, where, for Turkey, neither do I from Ukraine and the next. That's what these promoters do, they do these proposals, they kill real agriculture, because the right agriculture isn't for import, it's for export, for production. But me, I guess we all know that there's 50 affairs going on in the courts of agriculture about importing heads, bones, muscles, miracles, everything, anything like that. This is what all seasons have cooked up with such proposals because they do not have a whole proposal to say – from now on it will be like this. No, but they're flying in season, doing it and then? Now, we will not, of course, participate in the seasonal business, in the right strategically we will, but let's say, to put analysis, to get, you have seen that on all the documents in BiH letters are from a centimeter away, but only in a tariff below millimeters and those of us wearing glasses have the feeling that they are even smaller. And it's so tight, he can't read it alive, but those who read well can read and they already know what it says in advance. It's a hell of an awkward job you're both silent about and the Centres of Civil Initiatives and various other centres dealing with peripheral matters, I don't mean irrelevant, but it's very interesting that you keep quiet about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10868	Time! 20
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10869	I'm done. This ruins the foundations of this country, if there are any, but I have a feeling from the seasonal discussion that there's not even a t of the foundation.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10870	Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović, discussion, finally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10871	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I've been waiting a long time to discuss what's on the agenda, it's a customs tariff. I had no intention of talking about young potatoes, peppers, sugars, etc., but about the unique customs tariff it makes, here is the esteemed assistant Mr. Podbičanin, who is present here, says – the collection of regulations relating to this matter. I want maybe just for a little while, although I wanted to mention most of the arguments I had already exhausted through the discussions that preceded, and earlier I mentioned them in the first reading, I want to mention that the adopted amendments that came from the promoters had just been on the line of corrections, especially those relating to the legal one, let's say, and the illiteracy of that first draft that we got here. They are well respected and suggestions and remarks, but they are essential, and that is what we are passing the Customs Tariff Act, which is a document which, of course, is not attached because of the size of the material and all of it, but this law makes us practically open the possibility that when we adopt that document, a part of this document can be changed. All right, if there is a obligation to keep in line with the needs, in accordance with the requirements of time, changes in the international environment to which we are obliged, let me say, in the external trade regime to adapt, but it is illogical that this Parliamentary Assembly that adopts that tariff ultimately does not adopt these changes. Because I'd like to mention, by raising hands for the Customs Tariff Act, we're also raising hands for numbers. That is why any change in that number should come to this Parliamentary Assembly by procedure relating to the amendment of the law. In this regard, I would like to mention that, given the changes that have occurred in the last few years and the practices that have been applied in the countries when it comes to adapting documents of this kind, this Parliamentary Assembly should, in some of the members of this law, or new members of the law, etc., provide for the role of the parliamentary assembly post-festum after the adaptation of the necessary time, demand for time, etc. This is also an opportunity to eventually remove any doubts about the abuses and how they are possible in the application of customs tariff regulations. I would like to mention that without it, this law, or such a formalized law, would open up possibilities and doubts and abuses, etc. and, of course, opened a series of questions and I think that this Parliamentary Assembly should be very careful in this regard. Dear Chairman, I have, although I really don't know if there is any way that we could possibly once again give the motion to install provisions of this kind, which would prevent the abuse of such a formulated provision of this law. If not, I appreciate that it would be good for the next... and the proposal that we get from the law of this kind to be included. Thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10872	Thank you. Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10873	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, last time I took part in the debate on this item of the agenda and pointed out that in consultation with businessmen, especially leather producers, shoes, textiles etc., looking at the proposal of this said law, they do not notice anything about any improvement in the economy, or any relief to them in the process of production, or in the creation of conditions, but, moreover, since customs tariffs are not given, they are left for someone else to decide on, believe that it is a certain kind of mistrust and do not believe everything behind. For this reason, I do not think it is an excuse that the customs numbers that are being changed are not shown, which are not being placed in the position to have this parliament decide, not to decide. I think that despite the interventions that have been made from chambers of commerce that this law does not contribute, and which is our goal all, it does not contribute to increasing domestic production, it cannot be seen from this law. More than 10,000 were employed in the Republic of Slovenia in leather and textiles, and there must be more in the Federation. 25,000 people won't feel anything, there's even a certain kind of danger because the high prices of leather soles have been raised anyway, that they won't be able to produce their own products, they'll simply have to be imported. And we know well that manufacturers and textiles and shoes produce for all the world's fashion houses, and are unable to produce for the domestic market. Why? Because they're not competitive with prices, because they're prices, and that's what I said last time, soles, etc. in Europe 3%, here 15%. There is no such thing here, and it is not seen, and the producers question this proposal, they think it is exclusively a commercial lobby that has put pressure on certain people to prepare this, and for this reason I see no valid reason why we should vote and adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10874	Thank you. Dear colleague Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10875	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow MPs, here, yesterday on our Committee on Customs and Foreign Trade, I thought we had reached some sort of agreement and that this law could go. However, today I am a little confused by a certain silence from certain colleagues who do not discuss at all, I am not referring to colleagues from our commission. I was encouraged by the fact that the Council of Ministers accepted a certain package of amendments and I realized that it was a single dose of passivity, so it was achieved. And I expected that today we would discuss, one... of those who advocated yesterday that today this law be on the agenda and get a green light, simply because our real sector needs this, roughly picturesquely said, as here today, thirsty, dry earth as it needs rain. 22 I must point out here that we have embarked on our path to the EU in the free democratic market and that it is a very difficult match both with a lot of denial and with a lot of uncertainty. But I also have to be correct and say that we got a lot of concessions on that road, I don't know how much we used it, but it's also the fact that we can't play at that game market, to use the sports jargon, our economy on the world market, that's, here's the sports jargon again, like my Gabriela in the Champions League, they absolutely fell out before they went there to play. In this context, I think that if we do not have a pass-by today, and I see that there is no pass-by for this law, we have to open up the possibility of having it back on the table as soon as possible, to engage through the Council of Ministers and bring this tariff, this law and fullness, which is the respected representative Hadžiahmetović said we are not allowing anyone to manipulate. And when it comes to the Council of Ministers, I think this law must have one broad flexibility and time efficiency. So, for certain processes, we can't wait, especially when it comes to seasonal agricultural production, and we have to be aware, what counterpart Mehmedović said, that our no agricultural product can be sold, not on the foreign market, but on the domestic market, because it is at risk with those who give 50% of their budget capacities to foster agriculture. So we're doomed in advance. This is very important, and I have to face it. And in all of our unproduced development strategies, which I have had the opportunity to read, it says: as a farm strategic branch where we must have room to do so. Now, if we put it all together and sublime it, then here we are not consistent and in this way we can't achieve anything. I want to trust the Council of Ministers, we chose it, it is for me a parliament in small, because there is always a parliamentary majority. And here, my suggestion is that we try to keep this law alive and make over the bodies that are competent, and the Council of Ministers, the Proposer, really come, because we need it safe, not us, we need those who chose us, and they're going to take our measure very quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10876	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10877	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, so I'll take a few sentences. Since last time I spoke on the subject of this law, I have no intention of repeating what I said. Despite the harsh words heard from previous MPs, I am in favour of this law being passed in the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. If someone convinces me by further argument that this is the kind of transfer of jurisdiction that may be harmful to the RS, we can define it in the House of Peoples, and until then there is time to consider the issue. But I think and trust the esteemed Minister Šarović that it is very thorough, therefore, to take the law from the previous minister who is not, I would say, an abnormal proposal, as someone said, I think it is a normal proposal and that it contains in its description all the elements that are necessary to the economy. I talked about it last time, whether someone gave the first assessment that this law should not be so, but the chambers of commerce – and I contacted the representatives of the chambers of business and businesses – supported and I did not hear from any of them that they did not support the content of the law that is the subject of our debate. If so, then it is my commitment to be on the part of the businessmen, not to dispute the right and others to make a certain kind of remark, with what I naturally expected, if someone thinks, and in particular one number of 23 MPs who have the capacity to otherwise provide, as he says, a comprehensive proposal; no one has disputed our right to refer the law to the procedure to both the amendment and the whole proposal, there is a business possibility. It wasn't, we have what's the subject of our debate. I'm in favor of this law going. Of course, I don't want to throw away a certain kind of argument that was heard by my colleagues from the RS. I also know that it would be a good idea for this issue mentioned here, related to the protection of domestic production, to also be discussed in this Parliamentary Assembly, although I personally think it would be better if this issue were resolved through the Foreign Trade Policy Act, so also that part concerning the implementation of these rules when it comes to the protection of domestic production. Of course, nothing will be harmful if it is found in this law, and also in this Law on Foreign Trade Policy, so my opinion is that it is more useful to bring this regulation than not to bring it along with all its possible shortcomings, given that we have talked very much about the shortcomings and since... for every amendment here you have an explanation, I believe that you have all received the explanation of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations which gave complete reasons on the proposal for an opinion on amendments. Truth be told, the Council of Ministers has not been maintained, I don't know why, I don't have that information. It would be good if the Council of Ministers were also held after a statement by the restoring ministry. For these reasons, we have asked for an extension of the deadline, but it would be inappropriate for the Commission to ask for an extension of the deadline from last session, and now, after the extension of the deadline, we are looking for another extension. I know how, what would happen here, what kind of comments would be: well, you got a deadline extension last time. Yes, we, from the Commission, have done this zealously, this is about the lack of a statement from the Council of Ministers. I personally object, and here is how I would like to give criticism as to why the Council of Ministers did not consider these issues after the statement of the resolution ministry. This is, in my opinion, a lack of capacity, which does not mean that it will not be possible for all those who wish in the further procedure to adopt this law to contribute to certain changes, in the end, to agree on a final proposal with the House of Nations, because it seems better to pass the law than not to pass it. I'm closer to those who think this law should be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10878	Thank you. Discussion or replica, will you need more time? Here, you have a word, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10879	Well, there's no need, I think it's all clear here. Look again at a couple of things. It scares us exactly what everyone on the side wants this law passed, but no one will vote. I mean, I have this feeling, and from the Council of Ministers, some would like to adopt this, but they don't participate in this. I mean, it's kind of my feeling, and it's important to us that the Council of Ministers be defined and have very clear views no matter what we think. On the other hand, there was a message here that the Council of Ministers for the Protection of Agricultural Producers and All Business Entities and they are doing it quickly, but since this Parliamentary Assembly is against it it should take it out of jurisdiction because we will not, we are not for that protection and we do not want to protect them and to help them. When did this House of Representatives refuse to respond to any request and when we didn't ambush it and who asked us to refuse anything? And here to discuss 24 of our will now, if there's a concrete proposal when it comes to life issues, I don't believe there's a person here who isn't ready to discuss it for 24 hours. But there's no quality proposal, so that's what this story is about, so I don't know, of course, why only the Council of Ministers would react urgently, so neither do we. What's the problem? On the other hand, the demands of the economy, you also heard from colleagues from Boško Tomić, the demands of the economy. The demands of the businessmen do not have to be undermined by all knowledge of the procedures, they seek certain benefits or decisions without going into it because they believe that there is someone who takes care of how and in which procedure. It's a very sensitive matter of procedure here and we've come to the conclusion on several occasions and no one needs to rush into changing procedures until they've exhausted all these other possibilities to see if it's all that's left. I don't think there's only one left and there's certainly a willingness here, and we, I don't want to open that question up, so far, on several occasions, we've had this kind of bypassing the Parliamentary Assembly and I think we've got a lot on our heads. We need to exhaust here a thorough debate, this is a very important question and put all these arguments on the table, but we have a feeling that part of it isn't coming out on this table, I have a feeling, put your eyes on it, put it on the binco, because in all other cases it's stopped here, and immediately say what the arguments are why it's not going in, here it's being asked, what Haso said in that joke -- when we're on the move, then I figured it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10880	Dear colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10881	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, so the proposal for a Customs Tariff Act should be adopted as soon as possible, and an integral part of the Customs Tariff Act is a customs tariff with which I agree here and we should give it to the Council of Ministers, to the executive authority that the more promiscuously it can act, in fact, has an obligation every year to agree. And last year – until 21.12. The Council of Ministers should always adopt a customs tariff – last year there were some thousand and seven hundred and something just a change in the customs tariff. So, I propose that this law be adopted as soon as possible, and on the customs tariff of the Council of Ministers to take care of it and to take care of it, it is a tool that protects or does not protect domestic production and regulates foreign trade, and we know how destructive it is for BiH, and there is certainly an executive power to be dealt with, have various types of policies, it is only a matter of political will to apply it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10882	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to fifth point: 25 Ad. 5. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Beriz Belkić on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on BiH Citizens, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics You've received a match report. The college as a commission failed to reach agreement, today we will vote in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of MEP Beriz Belkić. Moving to point six: Ad. Six. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mladen Bosić on the draft law amending the Law on the Public Television System of BiH, with the opinion of the Transport and Communications Commission, and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Television Service of BiH, with the opinion of the Commission on Transport and Communications
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10886	I'd like a very short one. So, first of all, the report is really correctly done with both form and content, and I welcome the applicant of this report, because it really shows what was going on, but it opens up a dilemma, for the future I'm talking about, this venture cost sure. So, not only compensation to people, but time, etc. to be well assessed, regardless of what was the parliamentary majority in the Interresor Group, etc., to assess how successful they seem to have been. So, the interresor groups, so far as we've formed, have practically ended most of the work with very thin results, I'm not going to say that there were no results, but not expected results. We formed this Interresron group with ambitions to make serious reform practically in the set of laws. But obviously that's not going to work. So, I support what you've been saying, etc., but I had a need to warn you that we must very carefully assess the prospects of the Interresor Group's success regardless of its personal composition and regardless of when we have here and the situation seems to be that there is a parliamentary majority, that now it's just a matter of technique that what they agree to pass on here. But apparently, then they become central instruments, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10887	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10888	So it's not a replica to anyone but just before my colleague Nermin says something. I followed your conclusions and listened to what these people in the Interresor group said. They say they've done their job and it's hard for us now to give a warrant to someone who's done their job. I followed your proposal, and I saw, so in the first conclusion, they're asked to finish that part of the job, and if not, then the MPs will do it. Perhaps you should consider as a College, since that is your conclusion, to say that they, as far as we are concerned, are still that group, so they have extended that mandate that they are not out of office, at that session to do so and that is their mandate. So, just so the Interresor Working Group can't say we're not in office, we're done with our jobs, you're free to give us orders, you haven't formed us again, and so, here we are. That's it, thank you. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10889	Thank you. Dear Representative, Chairman of the House, Mr Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10890	Well, you see, colleague Džaferović, I take this as a well-intentioned and constructive proposal, but I expected from the chairman of the Interresor Working Group to have informed the House of Representatives here, so to say - please the Interresor Working Group are working and others, among other people, the Council of Ministers, so here, you may or may not have given us a mandate to do one session, the man has not even checked in. He didn't honor us with any correspondence, ignored the conclusions of the House of Representatives. What's to be done after that? Praying and giving a mandate to people who don't even want to honor you by letter, to say why they can't carry out this conclusion that's been done here. I think we shouldn't even have written this first one to ask them to meet again, but to ask the MPs, the colleagues who have already proposed these laws, to change the name, not to be amended and complemented, but to be the bill. And here, with my colleague Belkić, I also disagree. An interresor working group of three laws, three laws, very important laws, came up with two laws that changed more than 60%, so that's not a small thing. How much did we get from the Council of Ministers of Votes?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10891	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10892	Of course, but you'll get to consider it, and it's a big deal. And the Law of Elections could've also been done if we hadn't complicated things about Mostar. He could because the Interressor Working Group ended everything else. Therefore, I think a lot of work has been done, that it has been effective and that if these laws are being considered here, repaired and adopted, we have also finished that work we have received from the Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10893	Thank you. Honourable representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10894	Thank you very much. Chairman, co-chair, co-workers and colleagues, well, I won't have much new to say that we haven't heard before, or at least everyone seems to know everything, so much has been done by this task force and we've all been so informed about it. However, I would like to say something about the work of the Interresor Working Group at all. 28 The Interresor Working Group's institution is probably pretending that some things, some laws, are made simpler and that all different requirements and different wishes are brought into line before it comes into parliamentary procedure. That is why it was common, at least that I was informed, in previous meetings of interresor working groups and the result was satisfactory, that such legal projects go through an emergency procedure. In this case, it didn't happen. Therefore, the Interresor Working Group was the substitution of the Council of Ministers to prepare these legislative proposals and deliver them according to the usual procedure in the parliamentary procedure. That didn't happen. And when the Interresor Working Group did, it happened, precisely because of the discrepancies of the views of individual members of the Interresor Working Group, that we received laws in the regular procedure. When there was this regular procedure, then it turned out that the formal condition was unsuitable, that the number of changes, the amendments to the laws, was greater than the ones allowed under the rules on the making of the law, and then we got what we got. At the call that once again, in the conclusion of this House, that the Interresor Working Group was meeting, it was assumed that it had called upon the House of Representatives, which had reached such a conclusion, to adopt such a conclusion, to give the mandate. We read in the paper the next day that it's impossible and on two pages to criticise all of what the Interresor Working Group was doing. I have to say that before this was a much simpler conclusion that the Interresor Group once more 10 minutes says no, we are amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest and amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties cannot adopt them, but here they are translated into laws, so we will consider them. I'm afraid this is a targeted weightening of things that have already been agreed. I therefore propose that today we assess that in the shortest possible procedure we finish this part of the work, namely that the projects we have coordinated, which we have done, we put in the procedure for them to come, to start discussing them in Parliament. Unless the Interresor Working Group will, and apparently there is no appointment for the Interresor Working Group meeting yet, I am ready with colleagues who have worked with me to submit these projects to the parliamentary procedure, as authorised MPs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10895	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10896	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, here's what I'm going to say about the work of the Interresor Working Group and the proposal for a conclusion or conclusion of the College. I agree with Mr Belkić, who suggested that we should think carefully in the future before we enter into the process of forming these interresor working groups. I agree for a simple reason because in the past, I have been a member and... I have been a member of interresor groups before and, behold, I dare say that I have a solid experience in the functioning of these groups. These are the first very numerous groups, a number of groups, because this number was 12 members, six from Parliament, three from the Council of Ministers, three from the Central Election Commission and because of the topic discussed, because of the business procedures that are mostly common in these interresor working groups, very often we were either on the edge or without the necessary quorum to decide on, for the simple reason that both the chairman, or members of the Interresor Working Group College, was very difficult to find an appropriate term that would suit us both from Parliament and members of the Central Election Commission and members of the Council of Ministers. On the other hand, I will agree with those who say that if we look at today's agenda, then we should probably take the Council of Ministers' work programme and for each of those laws that are proposed to form an interresor group or related by several laws because we are taking on the practical jobs that someone else should do. So the third thing is to ask the point of purpose if such stakeholders are formed by members of the parliamentary majority and if there is some agreement, the point of purpose is to ask, if there is no passage in Parliament. And then we make no sense of what we did, no matter what effect it was. So, we have two laws here, and Mr. Živković is absolutely right and because of this fact that the Interresor Group has done more than they should have, because the Interresor Group has received power from Parliament to work only on amendments and additions to the law, not on proposing new legal solutions. And that was our problem. We in the Interresor Group were ready to do this as bill proposals, but then we were warned that we did not have a mandate from the Parliamentary Assembly and that because of that, we were aware that this was not in accordance with human rules and regulations, we entered into the proposal for amendments and addition of laws, which we otherwise knew we should have proposed as laws. Here, I think I've said enough so I won't go any further. So, members of interresorni, everyone like everywhere else, who's... He made a personal contribution to Parliament, etc., as he could and knew, etc. And here, in these conditions, I don't think it could have been done anymore. So for this reason, I repeat again, it is necessary to consider in the future whether this concept is applied in the making of legal regulations. As for the college proposal, I don't see what's controversial. If the House of Representatives has, in its conclusion, corrected the mandate of the Interresor Working Group,... and said yes, we have given you the mandate to make amendments and amendments to the law, here we are now giving you the mandate to translate what you have done into a new law. Which means, here's the amendment and the additions, sync up, do the consolidated text, so to speak, and suggest as a new law. And, I have information, at least I've been consulted on the terms possible, that it's an attempt to call an Interresor group, because they asked me about possible terms. I don't know if it's gonna work, but here it is, so that's one thing. Respecting the College, too, respecting Parliament's conclusions in particular, but I don't think we owe any conclusions to the MPs to propose the law. It's more of a matter of principle. So we can ask the inter-resor body that we formed to do something, in that part, or the inter-resor body that we formed to do something about. Here, I happen to be one of the promoters of these two hours of the Interresor Working Group and that is still the free will of the MP whether he will put a signature on the bill, so. So we respect that, more procedurally, but I absolutely think it's enough, and I support this call to the Interresor Group to meet and say, yes, we did, we're going to get it into this or that, but I don't think there's any need to stall anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10897	I'm closing up. No more reports. This second part was an invitation to the MPs, as well as an invitation to the Interressor Working Group. If the Interresor Working Group does not meet, MPs who participated in the work to be, I will personally be the legislator of the law that I have proposed. As far as I've seen and the other colleagues are for, and in July, according to our orientation plan, we have two sessions of the Assembly. July 5th would be in the first 30 readings, then enough time to close these laws on July 26th in the second reading. So we have plenty of time to finish the job. We're going to the eighth point, Ad. 8. Selection of four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency (Interim Joint Commission candidate rankings at both homes) The interim joint commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to conduct procedures for selecting four members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Development Agency has submitted a proposal for a single candidate ranking. Candidates are: Miraščija Amar of the Bosniak peoples, Rozić Ivo of the Croatian peoples, Stanić Milenko of the Serb people and Tanović Lamija of the others. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point nine, Ad. Nine. Appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH in the order of the Serb and Bosniak people (Commission candidate list for the selection and appointment of members of the CEC of BiH)
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10900	I'm not going to repeat what I've said on many occasions. I only have two things. So I suggest the following conclusions: 31 '1. The appointment of members of the CEC from the Serb and Bosniak people by the ten-seat competition is delayed. 4. 2012 until the current election process is completed. 2. The current CEC members Tihomir Vuičić and Vedran Hadžović are extending the mandate until the current election process is over." I have cited reasons for this earlier, and there is another, and I don't know, MPs also received a copy of the complaint of one of the participants of this contest, Mrs Alma Čolo, who was scored, or with whom an interview was made, although it is said that those who do not meet the conditions will not be invited to the talks. The woman was invited to talk, and then later, I'd like to check this out, this complaint of hers to be carefully checked, and to determine it in the meantime, so, but I'm staying with these two conclusions that I'm proposing. Here's the service I'm asking you to multiply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10901	Thank you. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10902	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, here, I have a duty, since I am the president of this commission to elect and appoint members of the Central Election Commission, and we have acted so in accordance with the law, the Electoral Law, that we have opened the tender in time. This competition for members of the Central Election Commission of the Bosniak and Serb peoples reported whether the number of candidates listed here and we held talks with all of these candidates after their applications, scored them and delivered the list of points. I know that there are certain misunderstandings and the members of the CEC themselves, where we have had certain objections to the tendering itself, because it was not yet an electoral process, that during the election process, the CEC members were not changing, that there were doubts whether these previous members were appointed in 2006 or 2005, that the mandate of the CEC members lasted seven years. They're all doubts. This commission, so in accordance with the law and regulations, has done its job, the list of successful candidates has, the points, delivered to this home and it is at this home to determine the electoral process, so the actions around the election process have begun. Here, in the debate before me, a colleague called Belkić and suggested certain conclusions. This today Parliament does not have to confirm or delay the confirmation, confirming the meaning of these members until after the elections. And I can suggest that as a conclusion, not to extend their mandate. I think that's the whole point. It means that colleagues would continue to work until the day of the announcement of the official election results 7. 11, is it, not to be extended, but to delay a statement on candidates until after the election. I mean, that's my thinking. If there are doubts, we can also vote here, the process is today on candidates from both the Bosniak and the Serb people's ranks. And this right here, I'll use the discussion when it comes to Mrs Alma Čolo. There in the criteria is very clearly indicated, very clearly indicated, since we called for an interview with Mrs. Čolo who has exceptional knowledge when it comes to the electoral process and the Electoral Law, but the fact is that she is in the active term. And it clearly says there can't be elected someone who's a member of the party's senior bodies, the party's central bodies, and now she's on the list of others. In the case of 32 Mr. Asim Sarajlić, if he resigned or didn't Bog let something happen to him, she would be a colleague in Parliament. Therefore, whether, therefore, we have called for human reasons and made it clear to Mrs Alma Čolo that to this day, as I have already said, whether, she could have been a colleague in Parliament, and then we would have had some way, for these reasons, we did not fight her. That's our conclusion. I mean, that's right, there's nothing to it. The lady knows a lot of it, but I'm saying, she's currently on the waiting list and she can, the next one's for entry, I don't know, or this home or the House of Peoples. Therefore, if we consider it, and that list is alive in any case, because someone can become a minister, let's say Sarajlić becomes a minister and then remains a free seat, and then a colleague would enter, Alma Čolo would enter there. That's it. It is up to Parliament today to declare to the College whether we will vote on this today, whether we will extend the decision after, means in the time after the elections, or whether we will see what Mr Belkić has suggested the conclusion
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10903	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10904	The extension of the term of office to the current members of the Commission by the end of the election process, let this be a matter of Parliament. I personally about it, we have done a really correct, fair, technical part of the job and it is at Parliament's now to decide on fate, whether to choose today or not. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10905	Thank you. We will vote on all the conclusions that come to me here. I have Mr. Beriz Belkić's conclusion so far. Yours seems to have been slightly modified and I ask you to prepare yourself in writing. Replica, dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10906	It's more of an explanation, Mr. Jurišić. ... First, I shouldn't have gotten involved in this, it was your job, you got into a very risky procedure, but here. So if you don't name anyone today, say, because obviously you can't do that to do that in the middle of the election process, and in July, this current mandate will expire, so we won't have two members of the Electoral Commission. That's why they can't be there. Their mandate's up. They just won't, they'll stop being members of the Electoral Commission. So that's why I suggest they have to extend their mandate. That's what this is about. And as for Alma Čolo, you've explained this very nicely, all of these are hypothetical assumptions. Here, Mr. Sarajlić says nothing about a living head, what resignation, etc., we'll see what the court says. I'm not sure you're right. There is also the opinion of the BiH Supreme Court, or the BiH Court of Justice, on this whole thing, so we will see what it will come up with, but someone will have to bear responsibility then. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10907	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10908	Thank you very much. Since on August 1st, existing members of the Central Election Commission whose seats are scheduled to hold the mandate, this means that if we put this out today, it would mean that we do not have elected members of the Central Election Commission. We are not in the SDP to delay the choice, meaning members, or members of the Central Election Commission, should be required today in this proposed procedure, in the way the Commission has shown us here, to choose. However, it can be discussed when these members and whether they can, whether they will enter into office and how and how to regulate, if necessary, how to regulate them by the end of the election, or by the election process, that they may remain. Is it even legal for those who choose new ones to take office after the election? Here, that, I don't have, I don't have that answer, but I'm not for it, and we in the SDP are not about to postpone the election of members of the Central Election Commission. We need to finish this today.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10909	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10910	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. So I'm in the line of those, I was talking about it already at the last session when we were actually discussing at one of the last sessions on this topic. So the election process is under way and there are no procedures when it comes to appointments. It's clearly in the law. The dilemma was what it refers to, whether to Central, whether to the local electoral commissions and however the Electoral Law is looked at and interpreted as being in fact all election commissions, both the Central Election Commission and the local electoral commissions. And I don't think it's a dilemma between us anymore. So today we don't have to plead. As far as I'm concerned, and as far as I understand the Electoral Law, the term of office of the people to whom the term of office is formally expires in the election period, due to this legal provision, practically lasts until the election process is over. I don't mind if we vote on the extension of the mandate, and we say that once again to make it unequivocal, but I think it's enough to do this first. And I think that's the one thing I wanted to say. And secondly, I'd like to ask this committee to object to colleague Čolo's duty of attention. In her complaint, she cited the reasons, called for appropriate court decisions, and it is as it stands – what is the election period, when it begins, when it ends, when it is in that situation, when it is not, so these are things that are already fully clarified. After all, she was a candidate in the previous elections, she was second on the list, but she spoke to the Commission when she approached the interview, told and submitted, and it was no problem, that if the situation happened to come up with 34 changes on the list, that she was no longer that candidate. It's quite enough for her to say that she's no longer a candidate. Whatever happened when it came to that list, if it came to it, is enough to conclude that her objection must be taken seriously. I have the impression that the Commission has gone over this easily. I have the impression that this should have been more serious, that it should have been more absorbed in this problem. And in the end, I get the impression that this is my impression that it's done, and here are some other cases, just so it doesn't get into the situation that this colleague is comparing herself with someone else, and they're probably all aware, when it comes to her references, and it would be hard to withstand such a quality of reference and put her somewhere other than in the first place. And that's kind of my impression of why this was done. I have the right to that kind of impression. Don't do that, go back to the Commission's session again, weigh it honestly and let us decide. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10911	Thank you. I ask myself one small question: if we accept the conclusion of, let's say, my colleague Belkić, the first one, does not have to be accepted, and we postpone the plea until October of the month, will the Commission then stab the esteemed colleague, Čolo, because she did not say at all during that period when she was in the election period? Has the Commission thought about that? So what do we do? Then we'll have to get another list in October that we'd have to put here to vote. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10912	You see, Mr. Chairman, the matter is not over. This is a process. We have a complaint in the procedure. It is an elemental matter for the Commission to consider this objection, to take a position and then, given the position taken, to inform Parliament. The complaint will be decided by the Commission, Parliament will decide on the election, and any lawsuits and objections will be decided by the competent authorities prescribed by the BiH Election Law. So, we simply, I plead not to be left without answering this question. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10913	Thank you. I wanted to ask that first, but I had the impression that the Commission had considered the objection and that a colleague had the right to appeal now. But as Mr Jurišić said the Commission was considering it, I was under the impression that the complaint was being considered. If no objection has been considered, that is the reason why the Commission has yet to determine. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10914	The Secretary of the Commission, sir... where I have signed these minutes these days, has not informed me that we have an objection. Therefore, the Central Election Commission has not considered at all Ms Alma Čolo's objection. So it's not, is it? If the complaint 35 comes, we'll consider it. We, I say, have done this work technically, but here is Parliament, and I think what you just said, the chairman, absolutely this first conclusion of my colleague Belkić, is all contained in it. If the plea is delayed, then they're doing their job until the other one comes. That's the thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10915	Thank you. No more.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10916	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10917	Dear counterpart Magazinović Saša, 15 minutes' break, ahead of the SDP. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, we proceed. Comrades and colleagues, please be patient, we have another point to finish. There's no need for a break to explain?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10919	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10920	There's no need. Thank you. We're going to the 10th point, Ad. Ten. Declaration on MP Šemsudin Mehmedović's initiative from the 26th session of the House of Representatives The MP addressed the initiative at the 26th session of the House, held on 19th. 4. The committee responsible for administrative affairs has delivered its opinion 20. And she didn't support the initiative. I'm opening an initiative debate. So we're discussing whether this is going to be a part of the agenda or not, sometimes. That was the initiative. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I understand we've exhausted the agenda. Is it okay if we vote 12 and 45? 36 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10924	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10925	At the request of the SDS, the proposal to repeat the vote. Please prepare to vote again. You can vote now! 37 "For" 16 votes, "against" 12, "abstained" eight. Insufficient support from the RS. Since we do not have a third member as a commission to move to the vote, we will have to, we are forced to meet as a committee within three days and Parliament will be informed of this. Moving to point 4. Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act (second reading) We vote first on the amendment of Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović, amandman I.. imati there a need for me to read the amendments? Prepare to vote. You can vote now! Nine votes, 23, abstention four. This amendment has not been accepted. We are going to vote on amandman II.. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 11 votes, "against" 18, "abstained" seven. This amendment was not supported either. And we're going to vote on amandman III.. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" eight votes, "against" 22, "abstained" four. This amendment was not supported either. We are voting on the proposal for an amendment by the Members of Parliament of Saša Bursać. Please prepare to vote. We're voting on amandman I.. Is there any need to read? There isn't. You can vote now! "For" eight votes, "against" 21, "abstained" six. This amendment has not been supported. We vote on amandman II.. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! 'For' seven votes, 'against' 20,'restricted' nine. This amendment was not supported either. And now we're voting on amandman III.. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" seven votes, "against" 20, "abstained" nine. 38 This amendment has also not received support. Now we're going to vote on the draft law in the second reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 28 votes, "against" seven, "abstained" two, enough entity majority. I realize we've passed this law. Moving to point 5. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Beriz Belkić to discuss the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizenship of BiH, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of MEP Beriz Belkić. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 24 votes 'yes', 'against' 10, 'abstained' were not; two tiles from the RS were 'against'. I find that this conclusion has not been adopted. Moving to point 6. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Mladen Bosić on the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Public TV System of BiH, with the opinion of the Commission on Co-operation and Communication and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public TV Service of BiH, with the opinion of the Commission on Co-operation and Communications, Glasam in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mladen Bosić. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" eight votes, "against" 19, "abstained" eight. I find there are no two-thirds of the votes 'against' of any entity, so this conclusion has been adopted. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What, is she 19? 39
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10927	19 of the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10928	I'm sorry, we'll repeat... "For" eight votes, "against" 19, "abstained" eight. 19 votes from the Federation against, two-thirds of the vote 'against'. I find that this conclusion has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10929	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10930	Sure. Yeah, eight and 29. Okay. It's too easy for this, so I'm on my own. Moving to point 7. Report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the preparation of amendments and additions to the Election Law, the Law on the financing of political parties and the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, Glasamo, on the report on the work of the Interresor Working Group. First we'll vote on the conclusions you've received. Did you get two conclusions? Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 33, "against" two, "restricted" one. I realize we've adopted these conclusions. We are now voting on the adoption of the Interresor Working Group Report. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! For 33 votes, there weren't two abstentions. I understand we've adopted the Interresor Working Group Report. Moving to point 8. Selection of four members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance 40 We vote on the appointment of Miraščija Amaro, Rozić Ivo, Stanić Milenko and Tanović Lamija for members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! For 35 votes, there weren't two abstentions. I find that we have made the appointment of those members of the Management Board of the Agency. Moving to point 9. The appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH in the order of the Serb and Bosniak people Glasmo on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Beriz Belkić who verbally informed me that he gave up Conclusion No 2 so that we only vote on Conclusion No 1. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10931	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-21-0.u10932	Please, at the request of the president of the SDP Club, the esteemed colleague of Saša Magazinović, we repeat the vote. Prepare to vote again. You can vote now! "For" 30 votes, "against" seven, "abstained" one. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. We're going to point 10. A statement on MP Šemsudin Mehmedović's initiative from the 26th session of the House of Representatives, Glasmo, on the adoption of the initiative. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 22 votes, "against" 13, "restricted" one. Insufficient support for this RS initiative. Shall we go now? _________(?) 41 can. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 23 votes against 13, abstentions. I find that this request has not been passed and that you will have to try it another way. Dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your patience and cooperation. The 31st session was planned on 5 July 2012. The session is over at 13.00 hours.
