ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2168	Ladies and gentlemen, here's because we have a quorum, we continue the 23rd session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, I warmly welcome you all and I realize that today's session is attended by 13 envoys, of whom 5 from the Bosniak, 4 from the Croatian and 4 from the Serbian people. As you know, since the 23rd session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly 04.12 was held after the completion and examination of the 9th item of the adopted agenda of the session, for justified reasons it has been suspended, now follows a follow-up in which we will consider the remaining points of the agenda from the 10th to the 17th point of the agenda. No meetings are attended by Martin Raguž and Krstan Simić for justified reasons. We're moving on to review the 10th item of the agenda, and that's Ad. Ten. Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions and international commitments for 2011 and conclusion of the BiH Presidency, materials of the BiH Presidency You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House of Peoples, the Commission has adopted the Report and is proposing to the House its adoption. The House of Representatives adopted a report on 22.11.2012 at its 36th session. I give my word to the chairman of the committee to Mr. Dragan Čović, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2170	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2171	You don't have to. I give my word to the Reporter, if he's here and if he has to. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? 2 Mr. Halid Genjac has come forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have before us a report on the implementation of the budget of the BiH institution for 2011. After that, we also have a report on the revision of the Budget Implementation Report. It is about the Budget that was adopted under very specific circumstances that everything is known about, but I also think that the report on the execution of the Budget Institution is not easy
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2174	Halid, please give me a little more microphone, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2175	So, I think the report on the implementation of the budget of the BiH institution is simply not possible to consider without any insight into the report on the revision of the Budget Implementation Report. And of course I will consult in the course of the discussion some of the things in that report, although that point is next on the agenda. So, the first thing you can see is that the huge number of recommendations previously made to BiH institutions in terms of removing shortcomings and illegality in dealing with the budget has not been removed. This is probably why all the problems with the budget, all the illegalities about the availability of public funds and all the problems that arise, more or less, and it seems now and more, are also taking place in the Budget Implementation Report. So, if you look at the item – Contracted and other special services of 44 million, obviously there is no crisis in BiH, operating contracts and temporary and occasional services of 8.5 million, representation services of 3.7 million, other unremarked services 6.9, professional services 3.3, legal services 3 million etc., etc. It is noted that external co-workers are engaged without the existence of written uniform rules and that this is done on the principle of management assessment, in a people called "dedicated", as anyone thinks it would be good or should do it to someone. Even performers, i.e. for a specified period of time and for contracted services, are hired by the contractors to do tasks defined by job systematization and for which employees already exist. Also, if you look at items concerning car procurement, official travel, representation, equipment, telephone services, and so on, it is also evident that there is still no crisis in BiH in the way of handling these funds. And yet again, despite the conclusion of the House of Representatives on 15th of last year, after several interventions to establish rules and procedures for improvement, i.e. to establish procedures for the consumption of budget funds for certain purposes, the Council of Ministers did not react without rules and procedures, when it comes to these items. It is sensitive, high-risk costs, in these costs is a very small distance between public and private consumption and there is the greatest danger of irresponsible treatment of budgetary resources. The current reserves amounted to 4.7 million, i.e. they were not engaged in accordance with the law on the purpose of using the funds of the current reserve. The amount of 742,000 KM 3 refers to the direct use of current reserves to non-profit organisations. Of this, the Council of Ministers deployed 225,000 with its decision, and the individual chairman and vice-president of a total of 517,000. Article 17(3) The law on the financing of BiH institutions did not give the opportunity to give funds to individuals. If you look at the list to which these funds are allocated, there's a huge number of individuals. These funds can be used under the law on the basis of a specific decision by the Council of Ministers on the transfer of powers to individuals, so the chairman, Deputy Prime Minister's Chairman, had no such decision in 2011; in 2010, there was no such decision. The analysis of the aggregate balance sheet is very shrub and the same item does not explain the balance structure in individual positions. The restructuring of funds from the capital expenditure position amounting to 700,000 at the current expenditure position has been authorised. No procedures and method of restructuring of expenditure for 2011. The cost of interest-free, non-involved credit funds is 3.6 million. There's no analysis of who's responsible, why, who hasn't made assumptions about the use of credit and so on. The court disputes amount to 2.5 million in binding judgments. There's no analysis of who's responsible, why there are so many court costs, why they're paid by budget institutions. So there is no analysis or explanation. The cost of renting 29 million is also an item that we will discuss specifically in the audit report, the item has a slight growth even in the overall state. And I just took some elements from the Budget Implementation Report for illustration, and in the end I'd just read the Review Opinion. In our opinion, the Financial Report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institution does not show the true and objective state of property and liabilities at 31 December 2011, the results of the business and execution of the Budget for the year ending on that day and are not in line with the accepted financial reporting framework. The financial transactions, the information shown in the Financial Report were not in all significant respects in line with the relevant laws and regulations, as above all concerns the issues mentioned in the background for a negative opinion. When we translate this Opinion into the language of the people, this report means that this report shows a state for which we don't know what it is, and the report should report exactly what it is, and this report says it might be, it might be, and maybe it isn't, at least according to the auditor's assessment. And the second thing, this report talks about, in the Report, therefore, is seen in a fairly large number of practices contrary to the law and therefore, and on the Law on the financing of institutions and some other laws and the adoption of this Report would mean accepting the unknown state of affairs, the unclear state and the acceptance of illegal conduct. Our Commission has accepted the report on the revision of the report, as well as the report. This is so conflicted that we should consider perhaps finding recording these illegalities as an obligation for institutions to record for themselves those who are employed and who receive salaries for regular work and to cancel the audit because it would be far cheaper. You know what savings would be if institutions themselves recorded illegalities, that it didn't have to be audited, because what the audit did was without consequences, and it cost the institution a lot of work. So we have two options or to pass on the obligation of, certainly, it's a mere recording now, there's no consequences, so that institutions do that recording, we're not going to have the cost of saving about 30 million, one thing or another to get serious. So, that the institution we have established, which 4 is very important, is doing its job and that we appreciate and act responsibly on this job. The Rules of Procedure states that if the House suspects the accuracy and truthfulness of the data, it may request clarification of the data before it becomes known. We here have the authority of an institution to estimate that the data is not accurate and true. So, I suggest that the House ask for an explanation of this report in all the important details and see what is true and then the revision tells us whether it's true or not. Before that, I think it might be difficult for this report to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2176	Thank you very much. We have a replica of Mr. Ognjen Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2177	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I just actually wanted to say something else, and it's about this discussion of Mr. Genjac. We now have a situation here that is rather unusual, that is that the Council of Ministers, which was composed of ministers from the SDA, and did not have SDP ministers, when it comes to this report, will come in a position to challenge SDP ministers in the Council of Ministers and support SDP ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2178	You mean delegates?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2179	Delegates, I apologize. So this is just talking about how much it takes in time for us to have some things on the table, because sometimes we as parliamentarians are confused with all these circumstances, of course I'm not talking about whether some minister is good, bad, whether he was doing his job, whether some ministry did or didn't do his job right, but the question of responsibility for the work of the Council of Ministers, so it's a matter of responsibility and those parties that now had ministers and how they were doing Budget and what they were doing about it. The SDS had no ministers at the time, of course because of these relationships that exist now, we're going to review our need to support this, but we're only talking about how important it is for some materials to come to the agenda sessions in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2180	Thank you very much. Replica again, Halid Genjac, blames the quote, what is it. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2181	I fully support Mr Tadić's discussion and I think that, regardless of who is in the Council of Ministers, it is necessary to clarify what is legal, what is not legal, what has been done in accordance with the law and what is not. And your replica, I don't see any way to refer to my discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2182	Thank you very much. Mr. Mladen Ivanić answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2183	Be careful, the report on the execution of the Budget is something that is extremely important because the size of the Budget is probably one of the most important things and everything that is contained here has wider macroeconomic implications. And I agree objectively with Mr Genjac that it is very difficult to make a statement about the report itself when it is known at the same time that the Audit Service has said that this report does not reflect the true state. On that part of how to generally treat it, I'll come back a little later, but I'll say only two characteristics of this report. One at the beginning of the year or at the end of 2010, the number of BiH institutions employed was 21,000, and at the end of that year 22,500, according to the data contained here. It is growth, almost 10%, 8% somewhere, while at the same time in all BiH you have a 0.5% employment decline. I think it's a policy that needs to really be stopped, if we're talking about the public sector being predisposed anyway, that it spends too much anyway. I really think that employment in that year was, in my opinion, inappropriate, and I didn't quite get the impression that some huge steps were made in that year, and I really think that this is one thing that deserves special treatment and Parliament, and I would say the Council of Ministers, and above all I mean a new Council of Ministers who will probably be subject to a similar requirement. So that's one feature. The second feature, already in this budget, was the payment of external debt, the practically external debt, compared to other expenditures in the budget was 25%, and now the new one will be, as we see what kind of debt will be adopted at the House of Representatives today, even higher. This is an additional warning to all authorities to enter into a very complicated situation that will be difficult to come out of. It's better to stop the principle of borrowing now while it's still possible, until the spiral has entered its even bigger one, until it starts spinning even faster than later when it won't be possible. The return of foreign debt has become the main expenditure of this country. The main, most important, individual greatest and truly extreme time is for all levels of government to clearly define these things once, because the consequences of such a policy in the long run will, in my opinion, be very, very difficult and I would say very negative. Now what do we do? On the one hand, we have a report that the review claims does not reflect the real situation, and on the other hand they have a situation that a new Council of Ministers has come, which has no special connection with it, but is about one report from the previous year, not to adopt the Report will have no consequences. To accept it, I totally agree with Mr. Genjac, so even though we know it doesn't really reflect the situation, we vote for it. That's why my decision, before this, was to be abstentioned, and I will be abstentioned to the Budget statement. That's six, thank you. And otherwise, in that term and in this term, I have been to the apropo replicas of a potential opposition, and therefore I think I have the right to say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2184	Since no one is answering for a word anymore, I'm asking that the voting mechanism be launched.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2185	What are we voting on?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2186	About the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2187	Report on the execution of the Budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2188	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2189	I find that out of the 13 present - 8 were for, 3 versus, 2 abstentions. There is a general and entity majority and the report has been adopted. Moving to the 11th point of the Ad agenda. 11. Report on Financial Audit Report 2011 Budget of the BiH Institution, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office You have received the opinion of the Finance Commission and the budget of the House. The Commission has accepted the report and is proposing to the House its adoption. She also adopted conclusions and proposes their adoption 1. It is up to the people to submit within 30 days to the Council of Ministers a plan to draw up missing regulations, instructions and uniform rules for budgetary users with established priorities, bearers of commitments and dynamics of realization, and to require time-consuming implementation of the plan from established institutions, all with the aim of improving and preventing the cause of occurrence or repetition of numerous audit findings in future audit reports and 2. The Home of the People requires the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury to carry out a detailed analysis of the content of the 2011 audit report and to approach the comprehensive implementation of all the recommendations of the audit. 7 At the 36th session held on 22.11., the House of Representatives adopted a report with conclusions from the Commission's opinion. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Dragan Čović, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2191	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2192	Thank you. He doesn't want to. I give the word to the Reporter, if he is present, if he wishes. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you. He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? No one's reported here yet. If there are no reports then __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2196	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2197	We, here at the College, have discussed this and we feel that we should vote on the Commission's proposal, you know, not the way the House of Representatives adopted it. Here's normal, if I have to open up, open up a debate, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2198	The Genjac answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2199	There's, well, Mr. Genjac answered, so Bećirović answered.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2200	Ma, I thank the chairman, I just want to point out, the Human Rights Commission has done a job in accordance with the law. A group was appointed to conduct interviews, to review all those reported and to propose, on the basis of certain criteria, to the homes, the adoption of the Council's composition. The proposal has been vraćati several times because of different views on individual solutions and the last time the House of Representatives has, in my opinion, acted contrary to the provisions of the law, since the law provides 9 for homes to be declared on the Commission's proposal, and the House of Representatives has made two conclusions to the Commission and amended the proposal. I think the only correct way to vote on the Commission's proposal is either to adopt or not to adopt it, and I think that the College has reached a conclusion that is in line with the law and procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2201	Thank you very much. Mr. Hasan Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I just wanted, if that's, of course, businessly feasible, so that we don't get into these situations, maybe it would be a more rational proposal for this decision to go back to the Commission for another review, to try to get the same text of that Decision at that stage, but that we are now making a statement on the Decision, that we have a different decision to go to the alignment of the texts of the Decision and so on. So here I propose, if that is, of course possible, that we do not say a word about the Commission's decision, but that we return that decision to the Commission again, that it try to achieve agreement within this part of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2203	Maybe it should have brought the House of Representatives back eventually, but good. Here's Mladen Ivanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2204	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I was a member of this committee, we had these suggestions three or four times, I mean to return to the Commission, it really doesn't make any sense anymore. It's us, it's just become the biggest nightmare there is, and I really don't think it should. Or we're going to vote, I'm going to vote for the Commission's proposal, because I was a member of it, I know how many working groups she's chosen, she's really had meetings, and it's become more of an object, so let's put it plainly, lobbying. Everyone fights themselves, everyone tries to fight there for some position and I more, right to tell you, really please don't do that. Or let's knock it all over again, because this really doesn't make any sense anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2205	Thank you very much. Nermina Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2206	I thank the chairman. 10 As the first deputy chairman of the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Immigration, Asylum, Refugees and Ethics, I testify that a very respectable working group composed of Mr Genjac, Mr Ivanić, Mr Raguž worked hard for several months, ______________(?) A cop. Mrs. Pandurević, for several months, has been trying hard to reach the candidate's proposal, and I think they've been guided by rational criteria, that they've done very justly. At the very least, I've had the biographies of all the candidates, the data of everyone, and today I testify that I think they did their job really right. It would have been better if that agreement had been reached at the House of Representatives and I do not understand why the House of Representatives does not respect the Commission's decisions and why it does not act in accordance with the law and its rules of procedure. Returning to the Commission of all the same proposals and non-principal lobbying of colleagues from the House of Representatives, for the reasons known to them, disabling the work of the Commission for Human Rights, for which I again, as the First Vice-President, dares to say that every member of the Commission is very fair and fair and correct in doing his job. And I ask that today be done and voted here according to the Commission's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2208	Okay, thank you very much. Mrs. Borjana Krišto. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2209	Thank you, Your Honor, I welcome everyone present at this session. Also when it comes to, here is a list of candidates adopted by Parliament on the appointment of the Council of National Minorities, I would also say, but what has been confirmed through the Committee, that indeed the Committee is in accordance with the law, in fact Decisions on the establishment of the Council of National Minorities, have acted in accordance with this Decision and in accordance with the procedures and, as far as I am aware, have also tried to correct certain things in the direction of these solutions as we have today by the House of Representatives. But indeed, all others are reportedly consistent with the procedure and delivered it to the House of Representatives. Apparently in the debate, when one proposal was amended, then an opportunity was taken to change another proposal, so I guess they reached agreement. What I would like to say is that we have also received from the Association of Representatives of the Roma National Minorities, also complaints which are fully justified and which point to the illegality of the procedures regarding the appointment of national minorities. And what the esteemed colleague Bećirović is saying, he said we should return to the Committee, I don't think we have any business in this situation, means we can't get back to the Committee, because the Committee has already done its job on us, as the House of Peoples, remains to accept that we are to enter into the list. I, too, would like to say in front of 11 Croatian Envoys Clubs that we will support the list of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, immigration and asylum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2210	Okay, thank you very much. Since no one is answering my word anymore, I am putting the Commission's proposal on the appointment of members of the National Minority Council to the vote. Please initiate the voting mechanism. Of the 13 present - 11 is for, no one against, 2 abstentions. There is a general and entity majority, and I find that the Commission's proposal has been confirmed, that these candidates have been elected. [[Common discussion]] Today's session is still on the agenda to give consent to ratification of agreements and conventions. I propose that we bring the debate together, declare our consent to ratify the agreements and conventions referred to in points 13 to 17, including item 17 of the agenda. I'm opening a debate. Who's in, who's in, who's in, who's in, who's in, who's in, who's in, who's in, who's in, who's in, who's in, who's in, who's in, who's Who's up for this proposal?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2212	We have time for one thing at a time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2213	Please initiate the voting mechanism. I find that out of the 13 present - all 13 are in favour. There is a general and entity majority, the proposal was adopted. You have received a report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication to the House of Peoples. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Mr Hasan Bećirović, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2214	There's no need. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-0.u2215	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering their word? Niko one's answering for a word. We vote on granting consent to ratifying the agreements and conventions referred to in points 13 to 17, including item 17 of the agenda. Please initiate the voting mechanism. I find that of the 13 present - all 13 were in favour and that we have agreed to ratify the agreements and conventions referred to in points 13 to 17, including item 17 of the agenda, and that this session is completed. Thank you very much. Just wait a minute and we'll talk about the next session. Session completed at 3:13 p.m.
