ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u7991	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 18th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting by the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our home, and here with us and colleagues from the BiH Parliament Assembly's House of Peoples. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. As you know, the BiH Presidency's decision to appoint the BiH Council of Ministers is on Thursday, January 5th 2012. So today's session has one item on the agenda, which is Confirming the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman I am opening a debate on the draft agenda. And I also find that, of course, we have the necessary quorum for today's session. Here you go. Since there are no applications for a debate on the agenda, I would like to conclude that the 18th session of the House of Representatives has the following 1. Confirming the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, I would like to remind you that the procedure for the approval of the appointment of the Chair of the Council of Ministers is regulated by Article 142. The rules of procedure of this house. I also remind you that Article V. point 4. The BiH Constitution prescribes a way to appoint the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers. You all have the text of the Rules of Procedure of this House, as well as the text of the Constitution of BiH, so I don't think there's any need for me to read those provisions. As you know, on 12 January 2012, at 10.00 a.m., the Committee for the Preparation of the Elections of the Council of Ministers held its 4th session and discussed all available information in accordance with the Rules of Procedure regarding the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers. The Commission's opinion on Vjekoslav Bevanda's candidacy to serve as BiH's chairman-in-Office has been given to us today. The Commission supported Vjekoslav Bevanda's candidacy, i.e. 2, made a recommendation to the House of Representatives for his appointment as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. This Commission shall act in accordance with Rule 46a) of its Rules of Procedure and shall make a recommendation to the House. In accordance with Article 142(2), paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: It is my duty to read the BiH Presidency's decision to appoint the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. The text of Decision 'On the basis of Article V. 4. Constitution of BiH, Article 9th Article 1. Law on the BiH Council of Ministers and Article 43(1). Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH presidency, the BiH Presidency held on 5 January 2012, adopted a Decision appointing the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. 1. Vjekoslav Bevanda is appointed the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, 2. This decision will be submitted to the Commission for the preparation of the election of the BiH Council of Ministers to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the follow-up procedure, 3. This decision shall enter into force on the day of its adoption." In line with the provision previously made, I give my word to Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda to present his political programme. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u7993	Dear President and distinguished representatives, distinguished guests, representatives of international organisations, all according to order and honor as it belongs to you, ladies and gentlemen, aware of all the difficult circumstances, I have accepted the candidacy as a special challenge and the ability to break the negative political course that erods so far to achieve success in building a BiH state, to prevent the apathy and dissatisfaction in which more and more tons of our citizens are sinking, while our forces and energy are heading towards a faster and more successful solution to the most important issues for our country – economic strengthening, growing standards, security, stability and health of our citizens, with the preservation and protection of our environment. Fortunately, the future chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers do not need much time to explore, define and profile the work programme. It is only necessary to continue the strategic direction that has established the previous composition of the Council of Ministers, led by distinguished Mr Nikola Špirić, which was also supported by the previous composition of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which was recently based on European integration, the only way that leads us to a better future. Our delay in the desirable dynamics of these activities as well as the latest results of similar strategies in neighbouring countries imposes an obligation and gives further argument that this definition is given full attention to all participants in political life in BiH. In particular, it is a good circumstance that we can count on clear support, as concrete assistance, many friendly countries that are ready to wait for the initiative on the inside, i.e. the agreed action of domestic political factors. We believe that after the period of domination of political outsmart, the time has matured, with respect for all our specialities, on the basis of obvious common interests, we are going to create conditions for our economic and social development and strengthening democratic processes, peace, security, health and happiness for people. Only the coordinated work of the entire Council of Ministers in further conditions and the historical period of development of our country can, in the time ahead, make BiH a better, richer and more successful state for all three of its constituent peoples, its minority peoples and all its citizens. With this in mind, we need to affirm the feelings of the interrelationship of the people that 3 fate has tied to the same country and that fate and now guides the united forces to ensure happiness for future generations. This needs much more insistence, as a common interest can also be found in a diverse, fragmented BiH-looking one. To succeed in its intention, the Council of Ministers must have continued close co-operation with the Parliamentary Assembly, a prerequisite for the effective and successful action of these two very important institutions of the BiH state, to achieve strategic objectives. It will be achieved through regular contacts with the relevant bodies of the Parliamentary Assembly and by ensuring a timely exchange of information, as well as the presence of representatives of the Council of Ministers at all sessions of homes or committees. And I believe that both the Parliamentary Assembly and every respected representative will make a full contribution to the effective, joint work for BiH's well-being and prosperity. Although the legal role of the chairman of the Council of Ministers is defined and focused on the harmonisation, coordination, representation and operational management of the Council of Ministers' work, it is necessary to update here the basic principles, as well as the guidelines of action in each Council of Ministers' Resolution which... is of common interest, the least common holder or resultant need of our complex state community. Emphasizing such principles, i.e. priority activities, I would like to stress that they have been achieved by objective analysis, based on the following criteria: economic strengthening, growth and development, bringing closer to European democratic, social and political practices, security and citizens' health, the preservation of the environment. I will continue to review the priority themes and tasks that will be at the centre of the Council of Ministers' interest, without reducing the importance or neglect of other problems that burden the current state of the Bosnian Herzegovina society. European integration - the general and most important objective of the Council of Ministers as well as of all institutions in BiH is to implement commitments under the Action Plan for the implementation of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. Deeply aware of the difficulties and obstacles that have arisen over the past period, we must make special efforts to overcome the present impediments and move strongly and resolutely towards the implementation of defined obligations. The latest progress report on the implementation of the European Partnership Priorities, according to the Council of Europe's 2008 Decision, specifically connects all the factors of the process. This relates primarily to the following: the action of the Directorate for European Integrations must be focused on the strategy of implementation of acoustic communataires in terms of dynamics, methodology, human potentials, and information support, in particular in the field of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises affirmation, health sector arrangements, food production and related sectors of agriculture, such as plant production and transport, livestock and veterinary, hazardous matter, and environmental protection. The work of the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office according to the 2006 Strategy in the areas of the development of central administration bodies, strategic planning and development, improvement of the procedures for the adoption of EU legislation and transposition into the legal system of BiH, management of the effects of administration, budget and capacity of public finances, and strategic communication and public relations, ensuring structured and institutionalised coordination between the state and lower levels at the political, legislative and technical plan. Organisation in the responsibility of the IPA national co-ordinate, the effective use of IPA pre-accession assistance instruments in national and common cross-border projects with neighbouring countries. Realising the necessary economic reforms to ensure compatibility with the European economic space, which involves legal regulation of certain areas, such as the law on non-smoking advertising, the law on the state aid system, the law on the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, the law on foreign trade policy, and the adjustment of BiH customs tariffs to the EU nomenclature. 4 Combating corruption – as the main obstacles to effective implementation of reformed policies and legislation. General objectives in the fight against organised crime and corruption are the harmonisation of specific legal rules with international conventions and standards, the development and strengthening of institutions to fight organised crime, education, professionalisation of personnel and technological modernisation, and the development of interinstitutional... and entity international cooperation. Internal security – general security, legal protection and effective mechanisms for implementing internal security measures are the following priority, as the security of the state, property and citizens, are the basic preconditions for the development of the economy and democratic society, and is also one of the fundamental requirements of European integration. Emphasise the fight against all forms of terrorism, organised crime, financial and cross-border crime, corruption, drug abuse, as well as trafficking in human beings and illegal migration. In this connection, the building of the necessary capacities, agencies and services will continue to create basic assumptions for their more efficient operational activity, as well as the introduction of a system of coordination of all security entities. In this context, nivelled legal regulations need to be adopted which will make the legal basis of the internal security system significantly improved and make the system itself more efficient. Special attention will be paid to the implementation of an agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the governments of other countries in the region on cooperation in the fight against terrorism, organised crime, illegal drug trafficking, illegal migration and other criminal offences, and the execution of judicial decisions in criminal matters. The next period will continuously monitor, analyse and take measures to bring domestic legislation into line with BiH's obligations stemming from international agreements. The issue of upgrading the justice system in BiH deserves special attention, and the start of talks in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Local Commission on this topic will be continued with the definition of appropriate solutions. Economic strengthening – a long-term economic stagnation with signs of recession in BiH is possible in the given conditions to overcome only a combination of foreign investment and to prioritise economic development in domestic government institutions. In addition to previously highlighted key assumptions, legal and political stability, European integration, it is also necessary to further define a strategy for BiH's integration into the European economic space, based on its comparative advantages, in order to create conditions for reducing the external trade deficit of our country, i.e. to strengthen the internal economy, employment growth and improving the general standard. Accordingly, legislation should first be added, such as amendments to the Foreign Investment Policy Act, the Law on the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship in BiH, the Free Zones Act, and the implementation of key international agreements such as the CEFTA Agreement with the 2006 Action Plan, the accession of the Marrakech Agreement establishing a World Trade Organisation with Annexes. The following activities will also be implemented as additional management measures: continued examination of requests for anti-dumping duties, the establishment of an effective national food safety system, co-operation with the Directorate for indirect taxation and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, with the aim of transferring data on exports and imports of goods by all tariff codes, with a view to timely proposing measures in the area of trade policy. Noting to prejudge the list of strategic sectors in which BiH has clear comparative advantages for participation in the division of European and global economic space, I am stressing here 5 of the most important: energy, food production, tourism and the environment. As emergency measures to affirm the possibilities of these economic sectors, and also as an expression of European integration requirements, more regulations and documents should be adopted. In energy: a strategy for the development of the energy sector and the gas law, as a prerequisite for the establishment of the energy community of the Southeast European countries and a plan for energy efficiency. In the area of food production and related activities: a strategy of comprehensive development of agriculture, tobacco production law, wine law, a group of rules on plant protection, veterinary activities, sublaws under the Law on Agriculture, Food and Rural Development. In the area of tourism and the environment: environmental protection law, regulations and instructions on the establishment of an authorised body for the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol, for the management of projects. Contemporaryly regulated and in line with European and international regulations using EU and international funds, and with strong domestic budget support, these areas could become relatively fast-trackers of faster economic development, employment growth and improving the general standard of people in BiH. As another sector, which gives an opportunity to revive economic activity, the construction of transport infrastructure, primarily highways, both on Corridor 5c and alternative cross-sections, is highlighted. The very activity of construction is a driver of diverse economic activities, while the built roads are a guarantee of fast and safe transport of goods and people, as a significant factor in an efficient economy. In the fiscal and financial areas, as accompanying instruments of economic development, activities will be based on the following tasks: the continuation of the organisation and the conduct of negotiations relating to the conclusion of a double taxation agreement with respect to taxes and income with other countries; the training of the BiH Central Bank's ministries of coordination with the Central Bank and the Directorate for Economic Planning in connection with the publication of general governmental fiscal statistics; the establishment of an effective internal audit system in BiH institutions and the full coordination with lower levels of government, i.e. their bodies in charge of the establishment and development of an internal financial control system for the public sector in BiH, according to standards, existing in the EU countries; the establishment of an effective internal audit system in BiH institutions and full coordination with the lower levels of government, i.e. by means by means of the long-term financing of the funds of the financial systems and financial institutions, the implementation of all the funds of the funds of the financial instruments are maintained by means of the EU. Other priority activities. I will continue to give a brief review in the area of action on the internal and external agenda, which has been deliberately set aside in view of the importance of the requirements arising from European integration and the need to develop good relations and cooperation with other countries. On the internal plan, I would like to set out the following tasks: the adoption of the law on the restitution and denationalisation, i.e. the return of property; the implementation of the Law on State Property and the SFRJ Agreement; the census of the population and households and dwellings on the basis of the list law; the completion of the process of sustainable return of refugees and displaced persons; the strengthening of human rights through legal regulation of the protection instrument. The external plan continues to strengthen BiH's reputation, achieve contacts and different forms of cooperation, primarily with the neighbouring countries and then the region, then the EU and finally all other countries of the world showing good will to strengthen relations with our country of BiH. 6 The nearest countries, our neighbours, Croatia, Serbia-Montenegro, should be at the top of our interest, as they can all contribute to overcoming the difficulties BiH faces, both in internal political, economic and social development and in the field of international relations. It also has a special place to work together to address practical issues, human rights and the security of their citizens, which achieve their actions and life interests in the territory of several countries. In doing so, mutual respect and respect as sovereign and equal states are essential. Regional frameworks should continue to develop good relations with Slovenia, Macedonia, Albania, Bulgaria, Turkey and other countries on the principles of equality and mutual respect, and in content similar to those of the countries of direct neighbours. With countries or communities that are more geographically distant, but confirmed by BiH friends, all kinds of cooperation should continue to develop on the political, economic and security agenda. The frameworks of these multilateral activities must not be forgotten and we must continue to pay full attention to our actions in the Council of Europe and other regional initiatives, where BiH is a full member, and to the organisations where the observer is. From the success, status and active action achieved as non-permanent members of the Security Council, BiH must capitalise on the maximum result in terms of strengthening its position and reputation which will... open further perspectives for its greater international affirmation and the expansion of the circle of friendly countries ready to help stabilise and to the full affirmation of the BiH state. This exposure did not last on purpose for the simple reason that there is no longer time to elaborate and describe the situation. It is difficult enough that only a little time remains for a decisive and courageous action to improve the same. Let me, for this exposure included, use one proverb or metaphor: the house is built from the foundation, and, as important as it is, the same importance has walls, but also the roof. In the case of BiH, as a joint house of three peoples and other citizens living in it, the foundation is established by the Dayton Peace Agreement, with the capacity to bear the burdens of the then historic moment. The walls of our common house make up constituent nations, as bearers of sovereignty. The roof is the BiH state that lies on the previous two structural elements. If the roof does not fail, or if it does not protect the walls, or if a wall leans and goes outside, the walls will perish, and the houses will disappear. Only under the safe roof of the BiH state is it possible to establish walls, strengthen them, and adapt the foundations, if necessary, so that they can carry new burdens that the future brings. Even if the roof is sneezing now, the damage can be easily resolved, repaired, and avoided. According to that folk, if the roof leaks, put a ducat on the hole, you'll save a hundred. If we don't do it now, it seems to me that our opportunities are lost. Thank you for your attention. I wish you all good luck and may the good Bog protect you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u7994	Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the political programme of candidates appointed to the BiH Council of Ministers. I open the debate and call on all MPs to present their views, views and opinions in a democratic and toleranceal atmosphere. The first was the chairman of the Commission to prepare the BiH Council of Ministers' election, Mr Božo Ljubić. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u7995	My colleagues and fellow MPs, co-chaired by the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, gentlemen of the ministers, members of the Council of Ministers headed by the chairman, media representatives, I would first like to report to this House on the conclusions of the Council of Ministers' election committee. As the chairman of the introduction briefed this home, the Committee held a meeting this morning and discussed the appointment of Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which was delivered to us by the BiH Presidency. The Committee also had all the relevant documents necessary for this House to discuss today the recommendation made by the Commission, which was signed by the Central Commission of BiH, in which the appointed person provided the information referred to in point (a) of Article 10(a) of point (a) of Article 10) of the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, and the official confirmation of the Central Election Commission that the person fulfils all the conditions laid down in Article 10c) of the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH and, finally, the Report of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of the Truth of the Information referred to in Article 10d) of the Council of Ministers. After seeing the materials delivered and coming in, and after the debate, which included asking questions from members of the Committee and answering the appointed candidate by the Presidency, the Commission approached the vote and, with 9 votes 'for', one 'against' voice, supported the candidacy, or recommended the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to appoint Vjekoslav Bevanda as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, and thus gained formal conditions for this House to decide today. And on behalf of the Committee and on my own behalf, I would like to congratulate Mr Bevanda. And now that I've taken my word, I'd say a few of my own observations at the beginning of this debate. It is known that Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda, although a member of the HDZ BiH, is a joint candidate of the Croatian bloc, HDZ 1990, HDZ BiH, and in this way we expressed our support for the appointment or confirmation of Mr Bevanda as the chairman of the Council of Ministers here in this House. I'd like to say a few words here that led us to it. The candidates' references, as a financial expert, as a banking expert, as a man with experience from the state administration, who for four years was the sub-president of the entity government and the finance minister. On the other hand, his personal integrity was also an additional reason and additional recommendation to support this candidate as a proposal for the Croatian bloc's party. Once we have had the opportunity to listen to his report and the way it is structured, everyone should therefore be further identified in support of this candidate at this home. What do I mean by that? So, at the beginning of his presentation, Mr. Bevanda put political stability and security as a prerequisite for the arrival of capital, hopefully outside, and his safety here. The fight against organised crime and corruption, which was also at the top and at the beginning of its exposure, should be a guarantee that the funds that come here or that are generated within BiH will be spent rationally. The emphasis on economic issues, which actually stem from the basic problems of this BiH country, but also from the candidate's vote on investing in energy, healthy food, the environment, which means taking part in national development, transport infrastructure. These are all the elements that guarantee that Mr Bevanda, as chairman of the Council of Ministers, correctly sees priorities and their resolution. 8 I would also like to say here that Mr Bevanda's success... will actually be the success of the entire Council of Ministers and BiH's success or vice versa. To succeed in this Council of Ministers will be their work, teamwork, etc., but also the political climate in BiH that we will all create together. First of all, this parliament, political parties and the overall public in BiH will be, I am convinced, a deciding factor for the Council of Ministers' success. What we, as representatives of political parties, should do for our part, is put Mr Bevanda at the disposal of our best staff to be able to propose the best solutions in teamwork, and then, as Parliament, to consider them and all good things to support them, and to make those who do not consider them, our proposals, our additions, even better. Finally, I would like to say that I personally and my party supports Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u7996	I thank Mr. Ljubić. The next entry was by Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u7997	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. Of course, Mr Bevanda is particularly well-respected and respected by his candidacy, or his office as prime minister. Although we prefer, and support, and understand the importance of functioning the institutions of the state, above all, of course, the Council of Ministers, which we have always advocated, this time we will not support the confirmation of the mandate. And the reasons are next. This is primarily the obligation and responsibility and job of election winners, so first of all I think of SDP and SNSD and, of course, partners with whom they made arrangements. Here's what people do today, with 15 months late, the bill will certainly come for it. So, in addition to all our efforts and research, we couldn't get to the program. Of course, what we heard here, here's the exposé, I don't know if this is a consistent text of six, eight, I don't know, we'll see how many parties there are going to be today. So what was available to us and what was signed to us is unacceptable, and when it comes to the census law and the state aid law and the way the Budget Law is adopted both in content and in procedure. Of course, on other things we could not find views except that in one document, which we had the opportunity to see, the implementation of the International Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdic – Finc is a credible process that is being conducted in Parliament. On the other hand, however, we saw a very precise and detailed human cruise, not only for the Council of Ministers but also beyond. We welcome a personal solution with two aspects, so it is a man who comes from the order of the Croatian people, because in the past terms there have been people from the Serb and Bosniak people, because it is a rule that has, in some ways, entered this country and we welcome the principle that this man is running by the party with the largest number of voters, i.e. with the largest voter support. However, I say, in this division of positions, which is not unusual, election winners absolutely do, but this time we have a very specific situation. So that division 9 went pretty far and went into a sphere that wasn't good. The president of one party, otherwise my good acquaintance and friend, publicly declares that the party's authorities will appoint whether a candidate or even a director, directors of some agencies, management and even the Central Election Commission. The Central Election Commission, institutions whose directors are called competition, is also mentioned. Nothing new, the parties are talking about it, but in this way they are public, and in one way not to say boldly, they have devalued both the competitive procedures and the a politicism of these organizations, their independence, even the Office of Audition is mentioned in these things. I'm sorry, I can't hear you. You two are nodding with your heads. So these are facts and it's never happened before, ever before. So those are the facts and that should be said here. And so, not to further elaborate a number of other things that we've already talked about and we'll talk about, of course we won't give support to confirmation, but apparently this idyllic picture of consent promises that here support may be unmarked, almost consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u7998	The word has Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u7999	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honored and esteemed guests, I now address you from two aspects, as the oldest MP in our home, and also as the man who, under the circumstances, was the first chairman, the truth temporary, but that's something temporary you know how long it took and turned into some kind of agony, which I didn't think would be delayed with the Council of Ministers. Well, maybe the comparison with Belgium isn't good, but I don't want to compare, but we have welcomed the end of this agony and I, Mr. Bevanda, sincerely and heartily congratulate him on his position, although perhaps these congratulations have little bitterness, because we all know very well what hard and hard work awaits him in a very rough and difficult situation in which our country and country are located. We all know that very well, and it will not be an easy way for him to go with his esteemed and respected colleagues who will be elected to the Council of Ministers. Sincerely and heartily, I congratulate and complete the Croatian people in BiH because I believe they have stood behind their representative, and it is good to respect the order that has been respected so far, and so be it, as our people say, both božiji and human justice. On the other hand, we as a Parliament club, so although we are in opposition, make sure that we will not be the ones who obstruct any work that is at the benefit of that building that Mr Bevanda spoke of. We will support our house, which is called BiH, in every way and in every way possible if it leads to the improvement of our country, our country and the complete Bosnian-Herzegovina people. There's a little human remark. I'm a man who bases his life on the logic of common sense, because without him among you I couldn't live, not only me but all the people who don't see as myself; it's a little unusual for me that in the expansion of the positive personalities of the other sexes, so our esteemed and esteemed ladies, I haven't heard any proposal for the Council of Ministers that a lady has been proposed. I guess we need to worry a little bit about that, but here's a human one little remark, not any criticism. I sincerely and heartily wish you to succeed in all that you have spoken of. 10 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8000	The word has Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8001	I thank Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I, as a member of the Commission for the election of the Council of Ministers, was restrained when the vote was held. The reason is that on my question 'Is there a programme of parliamentary majority work' I got the answer that it doesn't exist. So, I didn't have any other way then, so here's what I'm going to say, I'm going to stay restrained to see what's going to happen. Although I welcome Mr Bevanda's choice as a person, I also welcome and appreciate him as a man who is certainly capable and able to do this part of the job, however, in his part of the exhibition he said should continue with the previous work. It brought me back to my position, sort of, abstentioned, because I don't see in the past convulsion that there were those results that, I think, should be. , When it comes to the issue of a key economic policy at the level of the BiH state, above all the pillar of fiscal policy – VAT, nothing could be made clear about it either. Also a deficit, which stops measures and improves domestic production. The previous Act on the Protection of Domestic Production was brought down by the same parliamentary majority, or by one part of the parliamentary majority in the Court. It seems that I will have to remain abstention and that... I think we should choose the chairman of the Council of Ministers today, however, to give him a chance, because BiH, or the citizens of BiH, did not deserve to wait any longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8002	The word is Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8003	Thank you, Chairman. Let me begin by expressing my satisfaction that this item of the agenda is finally before us, namely the confirmation of the mandate. I'm glad it's Mr. Bevanda, although I must express my surprise and also my pleasure. The surprise and satisfaction that it did not happen so that Mr. Bevanda came to us here as a proposal for an unknown individual so that we might say yes, give consent, and then possibly ask the Presidency to submit a proposal to Parliament to be published in the "Official List". Of course, I guess you all know that this is an association to the adoption of a budget that we have or don't have, I don't know anymore, and I don't know if anyone in this room knows, including the state-level resolution ministry. I may be a little unusually speaking for one reason why, firstly, a little unusually, I would like to mention, to this House, or to these MPs, the CV candidate for the Council of Ministers has not been delivered. This is, as far as I know, the first time this has happened. I even remember that the strongest opposition party in previous meetings interrupted Parliament sessions until it was delivered to all MPs so that they could discuss it. It was the same with the program, I remember well, often called upon during the previous term. As far as I'm concerned, I don't need Mr. Bevanda's CV, I know him well, I know that in the previous meeting of the Federation government, he served as Federal Finance Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. Somehow this, and in the spirit of all this continuity, I understand both as continuity and probably someone's assessment that Mr. Bevanda did his job well, which I personally appreciate is, at least as far as I know, that he was doing his job and I know he didn't contribute, even though it happened in his term, a significant increase in fiscal imbalance in the Federation, or in the federal budget. Fortunately, I know that he also well assessed and assessed the need to make a stand-by arrangement with the IMF at the time, and probably with that arrangement, there would have been continuity if there had been a further engagement of Mr Bevanda in the Federation Government. So, I'm glad first procedurally that Mr. Bevanda didn't come the way he came to us here and the draft budget. I'm sorry that the program wasn't delivered, I thought it first, and I was really surprised, given the very engagement of the chairman of the House of Representatives in the previous meeting when Mr Špirić's program was under consideration at the House of Representatives. However, we got it, I found it on the table this morning, the Council of Ministers' Work Programme for 2012, so I thought first it was some kind of bullet, but here, as we can see, given that it's a continuity programme, there's no need to specifically deliver the programme to parliamentarians, because it's enough just to look at what they got on their tables this morning. I must say, I'm a little surprised that none of the coalition partners, or parliamentary majority, answered for a word. I even expected that there would be more discussion in terms of and support at the very beginning, but it is probably so much joy that this parliamentary majority has run out of words. It's either for joy or for some other reason. Let me also mention... that I am also pleased that Mr Bevanda has said that he has accepted the candidacy to prevent negative political flows in this country. Here, I have just recorded Mr. Bevanda's quote, so here, Mr. Bevanda: "I must announce in advance that I will remind you more often of this during your term." I'm not sure you're going to prevent a negative political flow, because I'm not sure it depends on you as an individual. What I would not, for example, talk about the principles and priorities Mr Bevanda has presented, but I would just like to mention that this continuity programme, which Mr Bevanda has repeatedly called upon, brings me to the question and dilemma of what that announced new spirit is, because it seems to me that everything is the same except that the spirit in the Council of Ministers has been given the name and last name, or in the future assembly of the Council of Ministers. I also have to mention, let's say from this programme Mr. Bevanda put out, I'm sorry that he used the construction of economic reinforcement rather than economic rescue. Because Mr. Bevanda, as a kind of economist, knows very well what messages have been sent in these times when foreign investors are concerned, especially in these last 15 months, and he knows just as well what kind of changed environment we are working in. So I appreciate, this kind of rough analysis, that you're going to have to do three times as much because of the delay of 15 months, that is, the effect of the message sent to foreign investors and plus five times more to cancel the effects of the economic crisis on the movement of foreign capital, which means eight times more to get that continuity you were talking about. What I would also like to mention - although you mentioned the continuity of the contents of the previous Council of Ministers' call, and I remember very well the good sentences and the announcements of Mr Špirić in his address to this Parliament when confirming - I am sorry only that you announced the continuity of the dynamics. Because it seems to me that this is exactly eight times, which is one group of calculations, means you need to do a lot faster and much more because of this terrible delay to get there on time, is it? However, you have so modestly finally announced that the only thing that is good in your speech, in the end, 12, is that we no longer have time. We haven't really had that time in a long time, and this country doesn't have time, and the citizens of this country don't have time. I, Mr. Bevanda, wish you a lot of success in the next term, allow me, and that I will often remind you of some of the elements of your speech today, but it will be more well-intentioned that, if possible at all, we will take a step, although at the very beginning, at least after these 15 months, I must express my suspicion. Of course, as an opposition party, which has nothing to do with you personally, we will have our relationship to today's vote in the way it has already been announced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8004	The word has Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8005	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed guests and media representatives, today, here, on the agenda we have the appointment of the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. And after this whole thing that's been going on about the prime minister thing, there's a real question of why we've been waiting for this for 15 months. We've waited a long time for the parliamentary majority to be formed, and we've welcomed that. Although we hoped that it would be different, that it would be more recent, more innovative, it did not happen, and it remains formed on the basis of three national blocs, and the division into the national blocs of BiH has so far brought nothing good, so we do not expect it to bring it into the future. The money and distribution of chairs is the only common denominator of the parties behind this proposal and, if someone is in the election campaign or directly from holding elections and could believe that this is about protecting the national interests of those or those, I hope that he has now seen it. When it comes to the exposés of the prime minister for the BiH Council of Ministers, i.e. candidate for the BiH Council of Ministers, it was among the first sentences... that the strategic direction to which he will lead this Council of Ministers will be the one led by the Council of Ministers, therefore the current chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Nikola Špirić. I hope, too, on behalf of the citizens of BiH, I implore you not to lead the Council of Ministers in the direction of the current members of the Council of Ministers of BiH. When it comes to your exposé, of course aware of what one exposé represents, that it is more a political pamphlet than anything else, I have to point to a few things that are not, in my humble opinion, adequately treated. These are issues concerning refugees and displaced persons in BiH, the relationship to the diaspora, the relationship to BiH's even development, the fight against organised crime and corruption, and, most importantly, the fight against poverty in BiH. The fight against poverty in BiH should be the first and most important point in the work of this Council of Ministers if we want this country well. European integration is a very popular story, a very grateful story. Selling in BiH as a politician that burns for BiH's European path is very popular, however, it should be asked what they think, under quotes, ordinary BiH citizens and where they are on the European path. Are they our companions or are they the stones on which we step on the European path? 13 When it comes to the candidate for the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda, I, Mr Bevanda, as a man, as a politician, greatly appreciate and this is nothing directed nor will this ever be directed at Mr Bevanda's personality nor any minister or deputy minister, but don't expect at least from this little opposition that we are here in this house that you will be looked after, so to speak. For all these reasons, the BiH DNZ will not support this approach in forming government at the state level, but the new government and citizens of BiH will, as previously in the DNZ, have a correct and constructive partner, who has so far shown what he thinks of BiH and has shown that BiH is the first on the list of priorities, whatever anyone thinks of it. I wish you all happiness, and above all good health and hope that you will do the best you can and very soon we will be able to measure the effects of your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8006	Ambassador Petar Kunić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8007	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to express my next point of view regarding the proposed candidate. Namely, the DNS supports the proposed candidate, of course within the club I belong to. I'd like to extend my point of view and point out that I'm giving an accent on some of the questions that the presidential candidate really mentioned, but perhaps in a later discussion to give a greater emphasis. The candidate mentioned the efficiency of BiH institutions' work. Then he mentioned a rational way of spending money, which is very important to me. What does the effective work of BiH institutions mean? It does not just mean that this parliament is effective and that it votes the laws, which is dominant in the public. So the efficient work of the institutions means that the executive power, the predominant administration, works well, and here I see a place where the new Council of Ministers should pay special attention. The administration stands in one place, the administration has no steps in reform, prevailing... a system or a system of patronage over the staff, which is very bad and which can represent a major brake in the reform of the administration, or such a administration can never be compatible with the modern European administration. A rational means of spending? We were wasting our time here, I say we were wasting our time discussing the budget and 2010, 2009, where we were actually pointing to the same facts – that there was one waste, that there was one lack of control of spending. And in this direction, this parliament must focus its attention specifically on the Council of Ministers. Here we mentioned some ecluent data, let's say, one director of an administrative organization buys a car that costs this budget, this country over 90,000 marks. It is a matter of the executive authorities to propose, within the legal framework of the budget implementation, a limitation of the funds in that item. Not only in that item, but also in other items that have shown waste. So, that the Council of Ministers establish more control over the spending of BiH's budgets. The best solution may have been found after a long time, too bad it wasn't before, but it's one fact here that needs to be recorded and remembered that it's still accepted, and it has to be one lasting way of working, the principle of parity, or rotation. As long as he's this time, whether he's 100% accepted or not, but that main part is accepted, which is very significant. 14 I wish the candidate success and even to the executive authority, especially on these issues, there are, of course, a variety of other issues that I have mentioned. Not to mention the organized crime and corruption I mentioned on this committee that gave the recommendation. I think it's one basic issue in BiH. It's a basic issue that this country has to deal with seriously. There's no place where it's not present. Whether political will will prevail in that sense is difficult to say, but I think there are dominant majority political parties. Political will must be created to target certain activities towards these negativitys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8008	The word is Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8009	Dear guests, I would briefly refer to this exhibition by Mr Bevanda, which we are to vote now, means the proposal of the BiH Presidency and of the chairman-in-Office, Mr Komšić, should be voted by the prime minister for the Council of Ministers' composition. We have seen here from these discussions that more or less this exposure has covered a large part of the issue of citizens, people and BiH and we have seen that MPs have expressed some different views, thinking that some of the things that are important to the citizens of BiH should still be mentioned. I may not have been able to read well from the exposé itself, but, if Mr. Bevanda speaks to Parliament again, he may also tell whether this exposé, his personal exposé, or behind this exposé are political parties, or above all political parties, and the political party from which Mr. Bevanda comes, is she also in agreement with this exposé. So I'll say what. Today, and we (we) haven't been able to hear, Mr. Bevanda said one big thing here at the pay phone, he said, I won't be able to quote, that we should build relations with all those who want the benefit of our country of BiH. What did I point this out? Something like that is said, meaning to our home country of BiH, because we can't exactly be in the middle of where he lives, with the place of residence and Mr. Bevanda and myself personally, we can't often hear the word 'our homeland of BiH', especially from the parties we come from. So the membership from which Mr Bevanda comes often likes to say about me and HSP's plans that we are proboscis-oriented, or to run some proboscis policy, and that the party from which Mr Bevanda comes is Croatian-oriented, to run some pro-Croatian policy. So I'm saying, today must be one big statement, whether there's been a twist or, I say, this personal attitude of Mr. Bevanda, or it's from the party he's coming from. I don't think it's a failure, that this exposé is missing: I haven't heard a word about the stance on constitutional reform in BiH. It was a nice ending of this BiH house exposé where two entities, three peoples and citizens or others were mentioned, all of which was very nice to hear, but it seems to me that this house should be arranged on the inside, that the people and the citizens live in this house. Because just as today, we had a meeting of the Interim Commission for the Implementation of the Verdict Sejdić –Finc then at these sessions, is it whether, we are talking about the minimum procedures of the Constitution or the procedures in the Constitution that will place all the peoples and citizens in the whole of BiH in an equal position. I wish something had been mentioned in that context, or whether the parties and the future Council of Ministers gave up any intention to change anything in the Dayton Constitution that is unfair for BiH citizens and peoples. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8010	An MP named Zlatko Lagumdžija applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8011	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, since after the opening presentation of Mr Bevanda, we heard the President of the Committee, Mr Ljubić, who presented the findings, the Commission's conclusions to which he chaired, and he responded in the capacity of the President of the Commission, who, with one vote 'against' and one 'abstained', supported Mr Bevanda's candidacy, so that we can treat his exposure as an exposure to all of us, because he chaired the Commission in which all party presidents participated. Since so far, here, if I hadn't come forward, the debate would have been closed, the distinguished colleagues and colleagues from the opposition appeared, and that none of the ruling six had been able to say anything to Mr. Bevanda, I, in a certain way, felt responsible because I participated in a meeting of the leaders of six political parties and here I am sitting here the only one besides Mr. Ljubić who spoke in one joint capacity. Here's Mr. Bosić joined, I hope he will take part too, but I would like to say a few words regardless. Since esteemed colleagues and colleagues from the opposition had very, very, for me, encouraging, and quite natural as well as fitting to the opposition sometimes, is it, attitudes that could not be characterized like that, I am a man who has great sensitivity to the opposition, a great sensitivity because most of his life span I have spent precisely in opposition and I think that indeed, and especially people who have never been in opposition, they, when they find themselves in opposition, are somehow out of line. And well, that's more reason to answer the questions and the calls that are sent directly to me and my colleagues, who are not here or do not have the right to vote properly, to say something here. I hope I can do it in common, here's even a silent consent. You see, I think it's a lot of encouragement that even this small part of the opposition, I'm not talking about the leaders of the opposition coming from the Party for BiH, the SBB, the pardon, the leaders of the opposition and the smaller part of the Party for BiH, so from the Party for BiH, they came from me, a lot of encouraging statements, and even from the SBB, which is that they all agree more and more that the candidate is one respectable person and that everyone has just spoken the chosen words about the candidate. And that's a lot of encouragement for all of us. Even those who haven't read the CV know it's a respectable candidate because if they had read the CV, they would have learned something new. Okay, what's there? Also, great encouragement is that there has been a lot of support from the opposition ranks in this exposé. And that's what I mean by great encouragement. I must remind you that we are one year late, exactly one year. Why exactly a year? Not 15, 16 months, but a year ago, because exactly five years ago, Mr. Špirić had a preliminary presentation on the same occasion. So exactly five years, so the fact is we're a year late. It is also a fact that Mr Špirić is then a respectable part of his introductory exposé – I have him here, I refreshed myself by reading him – dedicated thanks to his predecessor, Mr Terzić, who is now in opposition, although his party did not. Mr. Špirić's exhibits were literally, you can take a centimeter or a tape or a video, and you'll see that it lasted literally five times longer than Mr. Bevanda's exposé. And then most of the remarks, in fact, referred to that he covered so much that surely there was no way he could fulfill it. That's why I think Mr. Bevanda's approach today is very encouraging. I'd like to be clear right now, there's a lot of what I'm missing in this 16th step, I'd like to say more about NATO, but it's probably put into the context of Euro-Atlantic integration, so it can be dedicated. Also, I have to say that there are a lot of things in his presentation that are really a priority and, as far as I'm concerned, I would be very pleased if the degree of fulfillment of this present exposé was not entirely, but to be in the respectable part of it and then we did a great job. What's also important to me in this exposé is here, by me, which is missing, I don't have a problem with what's inside, because Mr. Bevanda obviously went by principle to try to find as many common denominators as possible of the people behind him. I'd like to go public, because of the diabolical mention of continuity to say a few words. In the text of Mr. Prime Minister's presentation, which I also, without reading to him today, I appreciate both personally and technically and humanly, and I am glad that HDZ, who was to nominate the mandate under this agreement, has nominated Mr. Bevanda. And that's what I said publicly, and I want to say it in Parliament, too, because there were other possibilities. I am extremely pleased personally and politically that it is precisely Mr. Bevanda with his technological experience, especially in the domain of finance, because I think we will need it and how we need it in this time ahead. But, you see, in his presentation, Mr Bevanda spoke of wanting to continue, this is the famous continuity, to continue with the strategic directions set by the previous Council of Ministers under the leadership of Mr Špirić, which we know, which was also supported by the previous composition of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and I quote, 'based on Euro-Atlantic integration', the only way. So this is about the continuity of what was supported here five years ago – the continuation of the strategic commitment when it comes to Euro-Atlantic integration. After all, today's piece of opposition was at that time power and then supported this strategic, I don't know what you're concerned about continuing this. I could have slowed down with it to continue, but I have no dispute with the continuation of such a strategic commitment. On the other hand, today is really the point of discount of one structure that was known here. There's only one party here that's been in power for 15 years, and today that continuity stops. If you're going to be honest, some in that party have been in continuity for 20 years, because they've been in another party for five years, so some are being interrupted by the twenty-year continuity. To be even more honest and more honest, here today, a number of people who were in power in continuity and before the fall of the Berlin Wall and all these other years are interrupted. And that discontinuity is really, I must admit, ending today. And I think it's good, I think it's good and we'll have great help from people with so much experience in continuity to be helpful. I am also pleased that the complete continuing party to today's discontinuity has completely reported for discussion, although I half of that party meet constantly at the university, and that is also the discontinuity that is being organized here. In the end, I want to say what else the discontinuity is about. Discontinuity is that today's attempt to give Mr. Bevanda a chance, and I hope that everyone will get a chance with him, that an attempt to open the peace process is both national and civil in this country. I even see his metaphor of the house as it is. Because you know the bar in the basics of architecture, simply, the visualization of what you see around you, that we mostly make houses with four walls, not with three, I... I didn't see it anywhere as a mass phenomenon – a house with three walls. It's also possible to do that, it's a very interesting structure, and it needs a roof, naturally, but mostly houses are made with four walls. And if they are constituent nations, and as far as I know there are three of them, and that hasn't changed by today's exposé, then the fourth wall can be citizens of this country, and those who feel like others. And in a certain way from one part of the opposition, not the one I meet in college, there have been 17 observations that this is the continuity of forming the government of three national blocks. That's not true, and that's what discontinuity is about. With all due respect, that's not true, because there are some political structures, we'll see if that composition won't get support...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8012	Time for the Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, is up.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8013	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Somehow it brought me to see this discounted structure that today marks the beginning of a new time for all of us and I am taking the opportunity to show on behalf of the signatories of the Platform and the signatories of the six political parties agreement to show my support and gratitude to Mr Bevanda for agreeing to this difficult role and hopefully, with the help of all of us, including the opposition, will witness better days ahead of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8014	Thank you. Replica, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8015	It really did you good. So the BiH Party MPs have not mastered the skills that the SDP is great, or at least some people headed by the president, regardless of whether they are an opposition or a position. So, in a way... etc. cynicism and we have no intention of even trying to master it. We were talking about the programme coalition, or the programme parliamentary majority, and we said that we didn't recognize it except two sentences about two things, because it was announced that everything was changing, that there would no longer be a model for the negotiation of personal, national, entity, etc., but that things would be based on the programme coalition. That's what we ordered. I have no intention of going into the details of this, or polymize with what Mr Lagumdžija was talking about, but here I can finally say that this parliament today, either for the next 10 Lagumdžija, is going to have a difficult loss by going to the Council of Ministers for the next 10 days.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8016	The word has Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8017	Here, and I would like to congratulate Mr Bevanda on the title of office on behalf of the SDS, and he is awaiting another process of negotiating with the parties, which I want him to be successful, and from that process to as high-quality names as possible, that is, people who are willing to be part of the team. I think it will be Mr. Bevanda's main task to try out various parties and various stakeholders to do something that might look like a team. And here's to express the satisfaction and discussion of Mr Lagumdžija, who will obviously be part of this team, which praised the future chief in the 18 Council of Ministers, and I hope that he will be able to find common interest in the good of citizens together. First of all, the success of the future government depends on their relationship to what they are tasked with. This means whether it will solve problems, including all the factors here, or allow each minister to run his own partial policy that is focused on representing the interest only of the part he represents. We will offer, when it comes to that time, people who will be ready and cooperate and also make common decisions in the interest of everyone, because it is in the interest of both the RS and the SDS. So our only request from Mr Bevanda and the future Council of Ministers is to serve BiH citizens and serve entity governments in BiH, because they are mostly in charge of providing conditions for citizens for a better life and for a better future. And the SDS, if this is the concept, will not only vote for the Council of Ministers but also contribute to political stabilisation in its mandate. So, here, once again, I would like to express my satisfaction that after one year we have reached the name of the mandater, I would like him to be the chairman of the Council of Ministers for just one year... three years, not to be four or five or six years chairing this term, because it will mean that after the next election we will get back to the same cycle. And, I hope that after these elections, we have all come together to some new experience that will not cause the same situation again after three years when the next parliamentary elections are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8018	An MP named Zlatko Lagumdžija has signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8019	Since I had already said that I had really sensitivity and respect for the opposition, it would be incorrect for Mr Belkić, whom I highly appreciate, because I have been with him several times, a time in power, an hour in opposition, where he was always in power, so I am obliged to tell him out of respect for him personally, according to the functions he performed and, in the end, out of respect of the state as such, because Mr Belkić was nevertheless a collective head of state and I always have a special relationship with him, as I have a relationship with the institution of the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the head of state, who are always my bosses, even when I was in opposition, as I am now, whether, because at the end of the day, we have not yet established anything new. I hope that happens, too. I'm sorry the MPs are not given Mr Bevanda's exposure. I came to this presentation by asking them to give me out of the press, but I carefully recorded, listened, because I thought it was my turn, so I didn't need to read it again. But it would be good because this exposure shows very clearly that there are elements of the programming base here, very clearly defined in three groups. Program platforms, they're very clear. Good luck, as I said, Mr. Belkić, that they weren't too extensive because it's a better chance of most of it being eliminated. That's one thing. Secondly, the elements of the software platform that we're talking about here, we all know very well that it consists of several key points. This is a decommissioning of the process of candidacy, a path towards EU candidateship, which was manifested in the census law, the state aid law and the law on immovable military property, on which a political agreement and a political platform were reached as the basis of the political agreement and the programme basis on which, hopefully, the work of the Council of Ministers is based tomorrow. 19 On the other hand, I must admit that I'm not used to such a dose of self-criticism with you when you say you haven't mastered the skills that we have, which is true, you're not, but well, what's there. I sincerely hope that you will overcome it in time, and it is a long way ahead of you here. I'm sorry, I'm going to have to cheer you up: your sorry for the heavy loss that I'm going to get you out of here is completely unfounded. You will unfortunately see me much more than you thought, and I must admit that I do not feel at all the heavy loss of leaving your representatives in the executive power that protected human rights and the truth about our country around the world, and I think that this easy departure will be anything but a difficult loss except probably for you and your clientele. And in the end, but really in the end, I want to say that to look at this exhibit, the lack of a political platform, to say the least, and the programming project task that it is ultimately not correct. Maybe it can be sold to people who haven't read or didn't listen to this, but objectively, we here have something that, freely said, can be called the basis for work. Whether this work will be successful, there will be a lot to be heard about here for three more years. And I can't wait to hear it here as loud and loud as possible, including this small part of the opposition. And I expect a lot of things from the leader of the opposition.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8020	The word is from Ambassador Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8021	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members and colleagues, it is indeed an honor for me to say on behalf of the SDA Club today that we have come to a solution and that, if Bog gives or with God's help, as the new Prime Minister's Council Chairman, we will finally get a new Council of Ministers of BiH with Mr. Bevanda headed. I must say that the time, however lost it may seem in these years, is not lost when the deal is reached. We in BiH are aware of the price of non-contracting and the price of separation and non-hearing of the other and different. And that is why I am especially pleased today that Mr. Bevanda mentions this house and I am particularly glad that Mr. Lagumdžija finds this fourth wall that can also be bearing a wall in BiH. So, here's the deal that came and the meeting that led, I must say immodestly, the president of the Party of Democratic Action Sulejman Tihić, we show our commitment and our sensitivity to agreeing in BiH, and I think that at the beginning of this year, strengthened by this and the agreement, and here today's session, we can expect, and also the citizens of BiH, to better days, and also greater results from both the executive and legislative authorities in BiH. Because, as you know, the majority here in Parliament, that certain solutions to our European pathway are already in parliamentary procedure either in this House or in the House of Peoples. Therefore, this atmosphere and this message that Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda sent today encourages and offers hope that this meeting will make one quality step for BiH in all integration processes. On behalf of the SDA Club, I would like to say that we will support Mr Bevanda's candidacy and wish him happiness and God's help on the responsible duty he has accepted.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8022	Last reported for discussion Drago Kalabić. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8023	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, here, I didn't expect to be myself, but I hope anyone else will apply. I would also like to express my support for Mr Bevanda on behalf of the SNSD Club and to say that we, as we are on the Commission today, will vote for his election. Maybe this isn't the time, because of everything we've been through, big words, and it might be a lot more today if we weren't probably aware of the situation we're in and the challenges, but we from the SNSD are satisfied in the finality that this is happening, given that what we've advocated I think we've achieved, that BiH will get the chairman of the Council of Ministers from the order of one of the constituent people, that after representatives of Bošnjak and Srbin it is the turn of representatives of the Croatian people, and that of the one who has the legitimate and majority support of the representatives, or citizens of that people. And that's what it is and that, at the same time, the composition of the Council of Nations will reflect exactly what we have advocated and that the basic principles on which this country operates, which is the equality of three peoples and two entities, will be respected. Perhaps here today, perhaps a few paradoxes since we from the RS have no opposition, so we have nothing to answer to, and obviously we did this job well, and it seems that we, today I expected the plebiscite support of the Croatian people chairman, but it seems that we from the order of the Serbian people will settle it with the plebiscite support of the chairman, so here is one news. Although I expected that, since representatives of the Croatian people will have long fought for it, today will be the support of everyone and will overcome some day-to-day political, but well, it is the right of anyone who determines... as he thinks it is best. We know Mr. Bevanda from this day-to-day political life, from the media, from everything, I can't say that we know each other well, and it's early to evaluate some things. Here today, some people have spoken and given us information that this is about a good man. Time has shown that smart and capable aren't all good people and maybe it's what we're missing and that there are few good people, and maybe it'll be news and something that'll help us get out of this situation. And I wish him all the happiness and as long as he adheres to the principles he spoke of today, and on the Commission, he will have the support of the SNSD Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8024	She wasn't the last of the MPs. Replica, Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8025	It's not a replica, it's just a correction. I guess my colleague Kalabić thought, so if so, if I ask you to make a correction, so there's no need to say further, so in the RS where the SNSD is in the power of the SDS is an opposition and a being, and it's a very severe opposition, because there are also serious reasons for that, but we're not going to discuss it here, of course, there's going to be an opportunity to discuss it there in the RS. But me and drago, I hope we understand very well, don't we? If that's the case, then I won't do it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8026	Replica, Drago Kalabić. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8027	It's not, whether it's a replica to itself or Mr. Bojić, and we totally agree, and it's important to us that what we've afforded ourselves is that today we don't need to get along with anyone else, but that's part of it. I thought that Mr. Bojić would say something else, given that in Banja Luka there is an open representation of a German firm that is very aggressive, or aggressively marketing performance, making these houses without roofs, with those flat bases and where they claim it's very good and that it reduces costs and that it's with strong insulations up and some kind of plantation, that it's now some kind of hit attraction, but I thought there'd be words about it, but good, it means good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8028	Okay. Here's after we've been convinced of both the democratic capacity and the other entity, if there's any MPs who want to talk. There isn't. Now I ask the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers do you have a need to answer some questions and findings? Here you go, Mr. Bevanda.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8029	Thank you, President. I am thanking this occasion to all respected MPs who took the floor and were correct in their statements. At the Committee, I said that a programme of work will be done by the Council of Ministers and will be offered to this esteemed House for a statement. And that was, the one who wanted to listen, just said that that's why this exposé lasts briefly, because I think simply when we sit down as a team that then we need to define the work programme, offer it to the Dom and the Dom to plead the same. It will be termed and realistically dynamic. There was another question, and now I'm saying, yes, this is my personal exposé, but it's fully contained, and it's based on the agreement of six political parties on all the important issues that are publicly exposed enough, and I didn't think I should particularly stress that. And in the end, no one should be surprised when I say'my country of BiH', I live in principle, and that is also in the programme principles of a party whose initial candidate I am. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-01-12-0.u8030	I thank the appointed candidate for the BiH Council of Ministers Chairman, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. The House of Representatives' College has agreed not to take a break and join the vote immediately. I remind you of article 79. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, which regulates the way decisions are taken in the House, as well as Rule 82(3) of the Rules of Procedure, which, in addition, discusses voting for the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. 22 I invite you to prepare for the vote. So, we are voting to confirm the appointment of the BiH Council of Ministers chairman. Vote, now! I find, with 31 votes 'yes', two 'against', three'remained', with the necessary entity majority, that the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives has confirmed the appointment of Vjekoslav Bevanda as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. On behalf of my colleagues in the College, and here I believe the entire House of Representatives I would like to congratulate you on your appointment. I note to all MPs in the House of Representatives that the next 19th session of the House of Representatives is scheduled for 19 January 2012 at 10.00 hours, and if necessary, we will call a session in a short time. Thank you for your cooperation, and this is the end of the session. The seat is closed at 14.45.
