ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-2.u2230	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers, the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 25th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 13 delegates, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian and 4 from the Serbian people. Delegations Martni Raguž and Krstan Simić are not able to attend the session for justified reasons. For the 25th session, I propose the next agenda of the Agenda 1. Proposal for a law on the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations for 2013 (second reading), delivered by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone answering for a word? Any suggestions for a change and a supplement? Niko one's answering for a word. Since there are no amendments and amendments, the agenda has been adopted and is not voted on in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2013 (second reading) delivered by the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives At the 24th session, the People's House adopted the Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2013 in its first reading. This is a second reading, a second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill's proposal. 2 You have received a Report from the Commission on Finance and the Budget of the House of Peoples, the Commission has adopted the Bill proposal and is proposing its adoption to the House. I give the floor to the chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission to Dragan Čović, if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-2.u2232	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-2.u2233	Thanks, I don't need to. Delegates to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the SDA Halid Genjac, Nermina Kapetanović and I have renewed the amendments tabled in the Committee, which have not passed. And here's my word, I'm opening a debate, I'm giving my word to the amendment promoter. Halig Genjac, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-2.u2234	I thank the chairman. Since this is a very important document, I need to say a few sentences of general nature and then about the amendments. So there were baseless, completely unfounded announcements that by leaving the session, delegates from the SDA would block the adoption of the Budget, we had no reason to leave the premises of the Parliamentary Assembly this afternoon and no one would object to us for this humiliation that we were given. Given the importance of the budget, we have remained here and we think it is important that Budget be adopted and that this is of great importance in this political, economic and every moment in BiH. We made our remarks on the proposed Budget, we proposed 10 amendments. These amendments mainly concern ensuring material assumptions that the conditions of the Stabilisation Agreement on the Euro-Atlantic Road of BiH on integration into the EU and integration into NATO are better met. Training institutions to respond better to their obligations, starting with replacing uniforms where they have lasted, to obtaining funds where they are most needed. Since you have received amendments with explanations and respect both the moment and the time of the day in which we are present and the evidence of fatigue, I will not read the amendments, I will not read or explain, and we will agree if it is necessary for the House to declare the amendments in the package. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-2.u2235	Thank you very much. I'm opening an amendment debate if anyone wants to. Mladen Ivanić, come in. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-2.u2236	Well, I'm not going around the amendment, I was thinking since this is one chance to say something about Budget in general and just say my position and unless it's only about amendments now, if the general discussion can be held.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-2.u2237	And there's a general discussion, so now there's no discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-2.u2238	Well, then all right, I'll repeat one thing again, and a lot of things here could be said about what Budget looks like, how it's made, what its contents are, I don't want to talk about it. I just want to say that when you compare today's 2011 Budget report, that the payment of the foreign debt was 440 million, and that now 790 for next year, shows what I keep saying that BiH, both its entities, has entered into one irresponsible borrowing policy. Look, that's almost 90% of a one-year increase in a loan payment. Yeah, no, I don't want to remind you of a time from ten years ago when the total loan payment in BiH didn't go over at all levels 150 to 200 million, and there were such years, I very well, believe me, I know. And when you know that next year it will cross the total amount of the normal part of the budget of BiH institutions, it will be close to billions, if it does not cross a billion, shows where we are and that, in general, and therefore less responsibility is borne by the BiH authorities, is borrowing at the entity level, but it shows here, total irresponsibility towards this country and this people and in general, introduces us into a very serious scenario where the repayment of credit will be irrationally, stupidly spent, irrationally to buy political support to bring this people into a position to pay both teachers and teachers and cops and all others to repay credits spent in one country's conditions, which, with such growth in debt, had a reduction of 0.5%. I really think it's about time that something was tried to make things manifest. Since this is part of the package and entity, everyone, I think it's basically one policy that isn't responsible, and that's why I can't support this Budget, of course I'll be, I'll be held back, I don't want to be among those who are going to prevent people from living normally, working. But I really think it deserves a very clear view and that one day we're going to have to open this topic, we're running away from it, and I think it's going to have to open up in a very cold and rational way. I have no intention of protesting the relationship that the House of Representatives has made, but I invite all of us to find a way that we can bring them back, and we can give them back, and not that they're playing, it could have held two sessions just like we're holding dedicated only to the Budget, if that was the goal. And that your own, I don't know what kind of relationships I don't know, they don't shoot over us, because if anything in this House is worth human relations and we don't get along and I don't say what we don't do and we don't get along, what they've been doing all day.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-06-2.u2239	Okay, thank you very much. 4 Is anyone else answering for a word? I'm closing the debate. I'd like to ask the promoter if he wants to vote on each amendment individually or together on all amendments? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] In the package, okay. We approach the vote, first we vote on amendments to the Party of Democratic, Club, or delegates from the order of the SDA, Mr Genjac, Nermine Kapetanović, here is my smallness. Please initiate voting procedure. The results of the vote, of the 13 present – for 3.8 against and 2 abstentions. There is a general, wait a general majority does not exist, no amendments have been adopted. [[no microphone turned on]]
