ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10934	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 31st session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives. The session was called: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home, and representatives of the media. BiH's defence attorney was also invited to discuss the BiH Law Department's work report. I warmly welcome all arrivals of MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. According to service information, 31 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Before we move to the agenda, in the context of previous issues, I would like to inform you that by working as a commission, the College has reached agreement that the draft law amending the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH institutions, legislators: MPs Ismeta Dervoz, Mirsad Đugum, Adnan Bašić and Emir Kabil, is being considered by a shortened legislative procedure, so that the bill was included in today's agenda. Since we received a notice from the Constitutional Legal Commission that they did not consider the Bill proposal because the motion did not attend the Commission session, it was removed from the agenda, and after that we received a notice from the legislator to withdraw it from the parliamentary procedure in accordance with Rule 106(2) of the Rules of Procedure, which was also done. Also, when it comes to changes to the agenda, I regret to inform you that we have completed point 4. On the previous agenda, that was point 5. Proposal for a law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions with proposals: MEPs Milorad Živković, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović and Niko Lozančić, Law No: 01-02-1-27/12, of 2. Seven. In 2012 (first reading), given that, when we made the agenda of this session, we did not know whether the Interresor Working Group would act in accordance with the conclusions of the 30th session of the House and deliver the bill or whether MPs would do so. As the Interresor Working Group did not meet, the bill was submitted by MPs who participated in the work of this group. Since the committees have completed the session and will deliver an opinion, if you have not already received that opinion, we have added item 5 to the agenda. Proposal for a law on the financing of political parties, legislators: MPs Niko Lozančić and Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic, Law No: 01-02-1-28/12, from 2.7.2012 in the first reading. 2 I am opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10935	Thank you, Chairman. About the proposed agenda our club, and it takes some additional consultations, please break 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10936	...at most half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10937	Half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10938	A half-hour break at SDS request. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats. Is there any need for SDS to explain the break?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10940	No, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10941	There isn't. Thank you. Let's move on with the discussion on the agenda. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10942	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for you chairing the 3rd agenda of today's session, actually a key point – is the chairman of the Council of Ministers invited to this session today? If so, why isn't he at the session and will he be at the session when this part of the agenda is? We believe that this point cannot be completed today, it is not possible to start working unless there is a Council of Ministers chairman who will tell the speaker here why he has made a decision to replace ministers from the SDA and deputy ministers from the SDA. These are important questions, and I ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers to come here to the O.R., we would have whatever it takes to ask him and talk to him on this subject. Thank you very much. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10943	Thank you. Maybe it's my fault I didn't say that fact in the preface. We had a meeting with the chairman of the Council of Ministers and we agreed that following parliamentary questions, which take about an hour for us, the chairman of the Council of Ministers will explain his decision and after that we will open a debate on this. You'll also have a chance to discuss and ask him about it. So, the chairman of the Council of Ministers will be when this item of the agenda is current. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10944	Well, I don't have any concrete suggestions when it comes to the content of today's session, or agenda, but I really want to express my dissatisfaction with the way this agenda has spread today. So, I'm guiding the grudges and the people who, by their inaction, may have led to this situation. I agree, it has been formally believed, according to the Rules of Procedure, that these points have become mandatory, but we have been brought into a situation, I say I haven't even passed the Law on the financing of political parties, I don't have the final appearance of the agenda, etc. I don't think these things can happen. We were not overwhelmed by some materials, so there was absolutely room for the past and for this session, we practically barely weigh some agenda and now we're getting into a situation because of some strokes, etc. We'll get back-to-back. I can't argue, these are mandatory agenda points and I accept that, but I'm expressing dissatisfaction. That's one thing. And secondly, one kind of remark to the Koleguj, i.e. a warning not to become a practice to be late 20 minutes and immediately pause, etc. And it doesn't explain to us who come here at 10 o'clock and sit down. I understand the complexity of the situation and the complexity of the situation in which the parliamentary majority is located, but it would be my turn to explain and tell the MPs, to announce that there will be delays etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10945	Thank you. I am sorry that your party is not a member of the Expansive College at which we discussed whether the session will begin at 10 or will be a little late and the reason is the work of the two committees.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10946	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10947	Perhaps we should have gotten that information from the Secretariat at the beginning of the session, but here, I think we started this session in accordance with time and our plan. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate. I find that the 31st session of the House has the next 4 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 30th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Confirmation of the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to replace Bosnia and Herzegovina's Security Minister, Bosnia and Herzegovina's defence minister and Deputy Finance and Treasury Minister, material No 01.02-34-1-75412, of 25. Six. 2012; 4. Proposal for a law on conflict of interest in BiH authorities, MPs Milorad Živković, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović and Niko Lozančić, Law No 01-02-1-2712, of 2. Seven. 2012 (first reading); 5. Proposal for a law on the financing of political parties, MPs Niko Lozančić and Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic, Law No 01-02-1-2812, of 2. Seven. In 2012 (first reading); 6. BiH Law Department's work report for 1.1.2011-31.12.2011, BiH Law Department material, No 01,02-10-74212, of 21. Six. 2012; 7. A statement on MP Dušanka Majkić's initiative from the 29th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, held on 7. Six. In 2012, which reads in accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I launch a parliamentary initiative to include in the agenda the following points Analysis of the situation in the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the diplomatic and consular network of BiH; 8. A statement on the initiative of MP Nermine Ćemalović from the 29th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, held on 7. Six. In 2012, which reads on the basis of Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives, I submit a parliamentary initiative to the colleges of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to decide on a decision by the BiH Council of Ministers to set up a commission to select the text of Bosnia and Herzegovina's anthem, in which they will be representatives of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's home and cultural and public workers. The Commission will adopt its rules of procedure and work plan after the constitution, establish the text and conduct a public competition for the selection of the text of Bosnia and Herzegovina's national anthem according to the legal procedure, and select the best-ranked text and establish a proposal for the text of Bosnia and Herzegovina's national anthem. After that, the BiH Council of Ministers is hereby ordered to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the National Anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 9. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH, material of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, issue 01,02-34-1-72812, of 18. Six. 2012; 10. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of directors and deputy directors of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina (proposed by the Joint College of both homes); 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the debt conversion agreement concluded between KfW, Frankfurt in Maine (KfW) and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury (loan) as well as the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance and Republika Srpska, 5 represented by the Ministry of Finance (RS), for 12.821,343,85 euros, "Hong conversion 3". We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Ad. Ten. The adoption of the minutes from the 30th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10951	The Honorable Chairman, respected members of the Council of Ministers, guests, colleagues and colleagues, so for these three parliamentary questions I have received the answer, it would take me half a day, but I will try as much as the Rules of Procedure allows. So first, I'm going to start with this response from spending on the name of the compensation paid by the BiH Prosecutor's Office for losing cases of prosecutors who had five, six cases and none of them received, so, of course, the people, who were without reason detained, filed charges that were manufactured, sought compensation. And only these two figures, so for 2010, were paid over 2 million marks, and in 2011, already that figure rose to 2.5 million marks. So when this is quickly collected, so BiH's budget is damaged by 4.5 million marks and no one yet knows how many such damage claims stand with our institutions. And whatever number I'd say now, whatever number I'm not going to miss, but it's going to go from tens of millions of marks and not a single mark in BiH's budget was intended for these purposes, although here I'm responsible for them finding it, that they've paid it out of direct transfers from the single vault account. These funds were provided for other purposes. So through parliamentary issues will be a new issue to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council – what were they doing against these prosecutors? It is simply amazing that he lost all cases and no one was responsible, but that is why BiH was obliged to pay off these damages. Well then, distinguished colleagues, this is already a book on the parliamentary issue of delivering all the answers – first, how many institutions at BiH level, agencies, ministries, and then how many employees there are, so that the figures do not appear in public, 22,000, 23,000, 23,000. Here we have finally, so you've all got colleagues, look. Well, then, who hired, so how much money was spent from the 2010-2011 budget when, under the supposed signs, Eldorado, we didn't have a budget. So you're going to see the fragrant data about how much archile and spent money in all sorts of ways so that no one can answer again. So there's this third answer -- who got the consent from the Justice Department to wear the first prefix, any institution, for BiH, but since I'm running out of time and it's going to take months for this to be discussed. So, I'm not in the illusions that I'm... I'm totally unhappy with this because no one's answering for this. And what good is it that I got answers when no one answered?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10952	Thank you. Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10953	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers, guests, I welcome you. At the 24th session of the House of Representatives, I asked a question about the spending of funds by the Council of Ministers for Sport and Culture and the NGO sector. And of course, this is one example of how the Council of Ministers manipulates data. Why am I saying this? After the first answer, which claimed that due to the lack of budget for 2010, I was not granted any funding for sport and culture as well as the NGO sector, and after my insistence that they still deliver the data where the budget was spent, I received only one small answer that they had spent, and a specification was made by decisions, 340,000 KM, which is an obvious lie, if we have in mind, and I tried to collect data, that in 2010 the NGO sector was spent, i.e. 8013,466 KM, and that it was realized 7,716,000, among which of course these 340,000 of which I was informed in detail. However, what actually stings your eyes is next. It is said this way: "According to the Council of Ministers' decisions, 340,000 KM was spent," and that is correct. However, he says, "According to the individual decisions of the BiH Presidency Council of Ministers and two deputy chairmans, 612,000 were spent." This is what leaves, at least, one doubt as to how, in which way, the principles are assigned or it's the way anyone wants it, is assigned to anyone who wants to allocate, and that's a significant amount of funds from some 50,000 KM to, I don't know, some small sums of 1,000 KM. So this is an example of abuse. Come on, we're used to Špirić doing this, manipulating data, but we're not used to it being done by Bevanda who's actually responsible for delivering such an incorrect and inaccurate response, here's a representative at the House of Representatives. Therefore, I would like to say that the actual spending of funds from the budget reserve is uncontrollable, with no principles whatsoever, without any rules, but an indication of how the chairman, or his two deputies, would like to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10954	Thank you. Dear colleague Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10955	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you all, to express one satisfaction that today, probably because of cameras, is present and a number of members of the Council of Ministers that we have not long seen and to comment on the question I asked at the 27th session of the 10th session. 5. The fact that I got a part of the answer and I still miss a part of the answer to make a complete comment, but I have to say that my question was to create one, that we have one real picture of the number of employed administrative workers, who are financed from the budget, from all levels, means from the municipality, entities, cantons and the state. And before that, I had one question... which was raised to the Council of Ministers on the employment criteria and on the number we need for this country as well as for these levels of government. And what I got today, for example, about the federal government, I'm going to make a comment from the State Service Agency. So, the reference year was 2008, so from 2008 to 2012, we see a constant trend in growth. In fact, I have to make amends here, that from 2011 to 2012, here in 2011, we had 2,031 employees in the state service, and 2012. - 2,030 employees, so one positive shift, one less. Now, I didn't get an answer about the number of contracts, the number of advisors and everything. We all swear when we come to power and we're all building a platform that we need to reduce the number of employees in the administration apparatus of the BiH state and all its levels, but what we see here, and then the data for the municipalities, I didn't ask if there were any SDPs, SDAs, SNSDs and others. Also, the data that I have received for both the Federation and the RS are really alarming and say that the trend of employment continues, that the percentage of budget spending on the administrative apparatus is increasing and that all we are saying are stories for citizens that we will reduce, that we will release funds for the economy and the rest seems to be just political flossules of all of us, especially those who are in power and who are responsible. I can list here some of the data you have, but it's interesting that both in the Federation and in the RS, and in the Brcko District, those data are growing. When I get all the data and the whole picture, I'll make a comment and probably one conclusion. So I insist on a supplement for the part I don't have. And this is a really alarming situation, and I'm glad the Council of Ministers is listening to this today, and it's a good thing that she has this annual session once, that it's twice as important for the BiH state to have a little better comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10956	Thank you. Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10957	Thank you, Your Honor. Gentlemen Ministers, fellow Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I asked a parliamentary question at the 26th session of the House of Representatives and it concerned 'what the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is doing and what they will do, of course, in collaboration with other competent institutions, primarily in... implementation of the CEFTA Agreement on the Protection of Domestic Production'. The answer I got, I'm happy with it, but I just called to say that this is a job that needs to be done constantly to protect domestic production. The CEFTA agreement allows us to do so and I think BiH should see its chance in the development of the real sector. The development of the real sector is quickly resolved in the context of agricultural production. I hope that the Council of Ministers will work constantly on this and will try, that is, to make additional efforts and steps to protect domestic production and thus encourage greater growth of the gross social product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10958	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10959	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'll just remind you that the answers I got to the MP's question, asked by the Council of Ministers, and it concerned the procedure and the solutions to the accreditation of higher education institutions. And here, after several times, finally to thank the Ministry of Civil Affairs for coordinating the activities. And here, let me comment on what they are, or why we don't have progress in this process. You can find the answer in this response to the parliamentary question to say the Ministry which sent 13 letters and after more than one emergency received nine answers. So even the Ministry failed to hire answers. I ask you all to pay attention, so cantons in the Federation, or in RS, are completely different approaches to the accreditation process. It is indicative that the Middle Bosnian canton, which has the most universities of private character, which should be subject to this accreditation process, has no law on higher education and the like at all. Some of them bring regulations while Canton Sarajevo, for example, expects the Agency to make a regulation on accreditation. So, one color that resulted in all this, so we still don't have a single higher education institution in BiH that has an accreditation from domestic institutions and that has a hard work and whose diplomas should be recognised in the BiH area. I'm just drawing attention, this is a really problematic area and I expect the Ministry of Civil Affairs to coordinate activities with the Agency, of course, and the others that are in this whole process. And the second question, let me especially thank the College who delivered the answer to the parliamentary question set at the last session. It's a special pleasure to read, although I knew the answer in advance, of course this answer doesn't deserve any comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10960	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10961	Dear Chairman, let me just say that I have received answers to two initiatives and two parliamentary questions. Since this is about extensive material, I failed to get to know myself and retain the right to comment on it at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10962	Thank you. Dear colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10963	Thank you, Chairman. I have more questions, or I have one question that I've asked, so I'd like an answer, and I'd like to hear it succesively. Let's say the question -- how many private schools or universities in 10 were founded in BiH by new cantons, Brcko, entities, etc., how many professors in legal titles do they have, how many colleges have valid accreditation, etc? Just a very short look at it, because I have talked about this problem on many occasions, which is one problem – again I will apostrophe it – the biggest problem in BiH. So the biggest and most serious problem is the issue of higher education. Let me just tell you the data I've been able to look at, which are statisticalally given. Take, for example, Banja Luka University, public, has a total of 1.001 teachers in various titles. The University of East Sarajevo has 1,012 teachers in various titles. And Slobomir, so private college, out there somewhere, I don't know, along with Drina, has a total of 153 teachers, which is visiting. So take this ratio, the relationship as it is. Regular professors 11, and imagine how many colleges there are at that university, just 11 regular professors. And take it, is that legal, please? Is the law prescribed how many higher education institutions, or colleges of regular teachers, must have in certain titles? So it's an illegal thing. Last time I told you what SIPA was doing about it. Who gave permission without any conditions? Where do we live? The university's synergy, also Bijeljina, has four regular professors. Please, it's the same university, four regular professors. A total of 33 teachers, I don't know how many colleges and districts there are.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10964	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10965	So I have a lot to say, but I think we can figure out, and let's not laugh, because this is too serious for us all. Not for me, but for our children, and it's too serious. I don't know how a conscience can't work for people to say, so let's put an end to the crime that's being committed in BiH. The second thing I wanted to say was the question – Are the ministries and the competent institutions responsible?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10966	Time, Professor!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10967	Please, is this important, giving consent to private law schools to pass judicial exams? So the knowledge in these private colleges that comes from the area of law is equal to 0 whole and something small. Please, the competent institutions have generally given approval to pass a judicial examination. Tomorrow you'll have judges and
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10968	That's what we'll have on the agenda, we said.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10969	We will have, we will have, and will be equally elected as judges who pass exams at state law schools. I think we should imagine that this thing is at least in our hands, because there's a law here on taking a judicial exam. We have to change that thing. I ask the Council of Ministers to imagine 11 and put it on the agenda. Let's not get into a mess in the jungle, which we won't be able to get out of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10970	Thank you. Dear colleague Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10971	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Fellow MPs, I have asked a representative question in connection with the construction of the Bijač border crossing, and I have done so for two reasons. From the one thing that we all know is the importance of one of the two border crossings for animal goods that will come into effect when we enter, and be obliged to, Croatia into the EU, to mean animate its construction so that it does not suffer our economy as soon as possible. And on the other hand, I've been under the impression that those who do this job haven't had to take what's already been done. This also confirms the answer I received to my question, and it says about this: that the border crossing will be financed from the State-owned State-owned Autoroad Federation and that the Public Enterprise Autoroad will start the activity on construction immediately after the verification of the agreement and the collection of approval, which confirms that nothing has yet started, that there is no agreement. And I would just like to remind you that the funds have been secured through the Council of Ministers and the Resolute Ministry of GSM license, that they have been secured for almost two years, that we have reached an agreement with the Department of Direct Taxation, with the European Commission and have determined what is all whose jurisdiction... in building, how much it costs and how it will work. Here, I'm getting an answer that someday you'll sign an agreement and someone else will finance it. Just to confirm our concern that we are not in control of the situation and that our economy will be in trouble very quickly because of our inactivity. Thank you very much. I'm not happy.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10972	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dr. Milorad Živković, Chairman of the House. First, a comment on the answer received, and then a parliamentary question, because it is the first one to be reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10973	Thank you. My question is addressed to the foreign ministry: 'With how many countries in the world has BiH signed a dual citizenship agreement and has talks on ending the same? Thank you for your urgent response to the Ministry. It was simply in response that it was only done with the Republic of Croatia, Sweden and Serbia, and that Montenegro has so far submitted a proposal for an agreement, a draft agreement. Obviously, there is a chronic lack of will and initiative to consume Article I of Section 7 under d) of the BiH Constitution and that we have to worry about why this is not done and do not encourage BiH's initiatives to conclude these agreements." 12 My question, since there are no more reported and new issues are starting, not to go out twice, is addressed to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, as well as to the College of the Institute of Missing and... 1. Why aren't the missing persons' central records formed? 2. How many missing persons have been verified in BiH under the Law on Missing Persons of BiH? 2. Why hasn't the selection procedure been carried out for the new board of directors? 3. And whether the old Management Board, which has expired its mandate, has a legal foothold; if so, please state to me the provisions of the law or act defining their status after the end of the term of office to call for a competition and elect a new College of Directors." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10974	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, a representative issue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10975	Madam Chairman, I have a brief question to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice: 'Is the faxymil of the Minister's signature legal way of verifying the documents? Reason: The increasingly common way of these documents is by faxing the minister to some ministries, yes. That raises two questions. First of all, isn't that minister not needed to come to the ministry and can only leave fax and verify documents, so there's no job, has that stopped the need for such a ministry? Or, secondly, that they may be too busy with a host of political initiatives, one of which may be on the agenda today. Therefore, I ask that the Ministry of Justice and the Council of Ministers answer this question." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10976	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, a parliamentary issue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10977	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, my question is what Mr. Kunić was talking about, but it concerns a whole other area. I think Mr. Kunić, through his comment today, has actually pointed to the state of responsibility in a Bosnian-Herzegovina society in one area, it is an area of higher education. BiH too must deal with the issue of responsibility, of course in many areas, and also in this area, and these are disastrous things, and the right word is accreditation of the Bosnian Herzegovina University. I have long raised the issue and there is still no debate here in Parliament. I hope we get the material and see why there is no accreditation of the University of BiH. As long as it doesn't, it'll be like Mr. Kunić said. And my question is about the other area, but it's also about the same. So I ask that data be collected and answered the question: In how many 13 cases has the execution of a fine been imposed in criminal proceedings become obsolete? Data should be provided for 2010 and 2011, with a total number of cases and total amounts of outdated fines for each BiH court in charge of the conduct of the infringement procedure. The issue is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Justice. At the advice of judges and prosecutors from the criminal district of Neum, in June of this year, alarming data were heard about the limitation of the execution of fines. Tens of millions, that's when it was heard, grew old in courts. Practically, the waste of funds is spent, misdemeanours are conducted. We knew so far about the problem that we didn't have enough prison facilities to send people who were sentenced to prison in criminal proceedings, and we were dealing with it, but I heard down there that tens of millions of marks of stalemated fines. I ask the Ministry of Justice to gather this information as soon as possible, to deliver it, to open a debate here in Parliament. And so this is one question concerning the issues of responsibility as a concept in the Bosnian Herzegovina society." That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10978	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10979	Mr. Chairman, I have two questions, the second stems from the first, and the issues are addressed to the Federation government, namely the Prime Minister of the Federation, Mr. Nermin Nikšić. My first question: 'I ask the Prime Minister of the Federation of BiH Nermin Nikšić to provide me with information as soon as possible on the Protocol on Co-operation between the Government of the Federation of BiH and the Company... I don't think you need a comment. We have all kinds of signs in the media these days. Every investment in BiH, in the Federation and RS is very good, especially if it is based on legal basis and we want to clarify this dilemma." This second question arises from the first, means: 'I am looking for information on the Protocol and the realisation of the investment project building two Te Tuzla thermoblocks, (unit 7) and TE Kakanj (unit 9). Explanation: 1. I think the Protocol is signed contrary to the Public Procurement Act, which implies the opening of a public tender. Under 2. I think the Protocol is signed with an anonymous company that has no reference in the electricity sector, which is contrary to the conclusions of the Federation of BiH Parliament. And below 3. Investment investments provided for in the Protocol are not in line with the estimated value of two thermoblocks. The official page of the Elektroprivrede BiH also includes a review of all planned investments in the Federation of BiH electricity sector, including two 14 thermoblocks – block 7 in Tuzla and block 8 in Kaknja. Investment investments for both thermoblocks were estimated at 1.45 billion euros (block 7 in Tuzla 823m euros, and block 8 612m euros). I would like this argument to be denied by the prime minister and to get an answer so that the public in BiH will be truly and timely informed of these protocols." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10980	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10981	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of the Parliament, distinguished guests, I welcome you all together. For today, I have prepared two questions and two initiatives, of which I would read first, normally, from the field of traffic. The initiative for the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Communications and Transport, the Ministry of Transport and the links of the RS. 'In view of the intolerable state of the E762 highway in the direction of the Republic of Montenegro and to Brod – Šcepan Polje in part of Republika Srpska, I ask that the solution be approached as soon as possible in order to properly reconstruct and put the section into normal two-way traffic, which would significantly improve the social and demographic picture of the area, as well as more favourable communication and relations BiH with the Republic of Montenegro.' The parliamentary question: 'As there is no (for the Council of Ministers, pardon) conformity assessment for both domestic and imported products before their placing on the market, I ask the question – What is and how long has it been with the Act on Technical Requirements for Products and Assessment of Harmony and the Law on Accreditation?' A parliamentary question for the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Government of the Federation of BiH: 'How and how do they intend to provide adequate quantities of wheat for the needs of the Federation, given that the Ministry of Agriculture in Banja Luka intends to resolve this by buying from Romania these days? What amounts of wheat are they going to buy from farmers from the Federation of BiH and RS? And if we already have the right to export fresh fish to the EU market, what in that field to make that happen?" And the initiative: 'In accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I launch an initiative to implement both entities, as well as Brcko District, to reduce the applicable fees for municipal connections, water, electricity, telephone, urban consent and building permit by 50% of the current prices." The explanation is in favor, so much. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10982	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10983	Thank you. So the first question is for the BiH presidency and the foreign minister, whom I welcome, I may get an answer right away. So, the question is: 'Will you, in light of the UN Council's decision to release Radovan Karadžić, the indictee Radovan Karadžić, former RS president, on the charges of genocide in seven municipalities, use the possibility provided for in the 108s Regulation of the Tribunal and submit a request to the Board of Appeal for reviewing this decision?' The second question is for the head of the Kiseljak municipality, which is the result of the response I received from the Federation's Joint Affairs Service, it is related to the Gavrilović family situation that has been unable to return to its apartment for 15 years. The question, therefore, is: 'What are the reasons for the refusal of the request to return the apartment to Kiseljak Rajka and Jefto Gavrilović, despite the judicial verdict of the Sarajevo Municipal Court, number 52058/3 of 25. 2. 2005, which found Gavrilović Jefto to be the homeowner, i.e. Legally found that Jefto Gavrilović is a tenant of the apartment in Kiseljak on Rudi Čajevac Street. Six? Reason: In addition, I provided this reply to the Joint Affairs Service, which says the apartment is legal, or found to be the homeowner of the Gavrilović family, and that the municipality of Kiseljak is the one who is operationally required to return the apartment." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10984	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10985	Thank you, Chairman. Here, and in commenting on the answers we have today, we have seen a lot of things, that in BiH we have a lot of illegalities, especially when it comes to accidental spending of budget funds, i.e. illegality in public procurement. We could have, we had the opportunity to read in the media that it says: so, the chairman of Mr. Amir Pilav's Office of Appeals has filed 13 criminal charges for violations of the law in public procurement of some 20 million KM and that he intends to submit more, meaning 30 criminal charges for legal entities and probably the persons responsible for those legal entities, is whether, which is for public procurement of 30 million marks, which is over 50 million marks. My question would read: 16 'What are these legal entities and who are the responsible persons against whom they have been filed, so criminal charges, and at what time have these criminal charges been filed?' Here, it's hard to speak and predict in advance who else he's going to press against, but after we find out, then he's going to follow up on the prosecution's question, so what he's done possibly in these cases, because often we get these things out of date. And so, the question is... the chairman of the Board of Appeals of this Public Procurement Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10986	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10987	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have two brief questions, as well as two requests from the Council of Ministers, to include in the list of priorities, therefore, these obligations that the homes have set before them. The first is: 'When will the BiH Parliament be given amendments to the BiH Citizenship Act that will treat exclusively the BiH Constitutional Court rulings? We hope that the Council of Ministers did not give up the obligation to meet the conditions set before it by the Constitutional Court." The second is: "When will the Council of Ministers act upon the conclusion of this House and the Joint College and provide information on BiH's process and position on the European path and meeting the conditions for BiH's application for EU membership? You know that, on the initiative I filed three months ago, we agreed to conduct a discussion, have information and discuss this issue at a joint session of both homes before the annual holidays." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10988	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10989	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have two short questions. First, it is the Federation of BiH government: 'What is the amount of the invoiced and unpaid claims based on contributions to pension and disability insurance and health insurance contributions for workers employed in enterprises whose majority is the owner of the state and what is being done to collect these claims?' Second question to the Federal Ministry of Displaced Persons and Refugees and Resort Minister: 17 'I already asked a similar question four or five months ago, but I never got an answer, so here I will repeat it – How much funds from the Federation of BiH's 2011 budget and the first six months of 2012 were spent to encourage and support returns and returnees? How much of these funds have been realised in the territory of the Federation of BiH, and how much from the Federation of BiH's budget on the territory of the RS and how much is realised by municipalities and what is the national structure of end-users?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10990	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10991	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. I ask the question to the Council of Ministers: 'The Council of Ministers decided at one of the previous sessions and approved the RS Health Ministry 2.7 million KM to build a hospital in Kasindol. Although health care in the Federation of BiH, i.e. citizens of healthcare users, has the need to build new and reconstruct old hospital facilities, a unilateral decision has been made that I consider illegal. And I demand an explanation from the Council of Ministers - why it has acted in such an illegal manner. And I will probably open one communication in this way in the future time period with the Council of Ministers." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10992	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10993	Mr. Chairman, I have a question for the Council of Ministers that once they really don't underestimate this parliament, we don't have a permanent session for a few days, we have two sessions, three in a month. And I must stress, however anyone wants to understand, that I see mostly Minister Sredoje Nović in Parliament's meetings that he is always present, there is Mr Hadžić, and that I leave no one else out or stretch, rarely I see. Gentlemen Ministers, it's for the chairman, at least once come to the session you or your deputies, because I have countless questions for you. So, if you can't respond to the Parliament that chooses you, let's sort of understand that you don't come to a committee meeting, I don't underestimate your expert associates, assistants, advisors, who come here to Parliament, but they're not adequate conversants to answer a number of questions that we want to ask you. So it's for the chairman, first. And secondly, I think that one time before three or four sessions I asked the question and I ask the Chairman of the Council of Ministers and you, gentlemen of the Ministers, to urgently do this rationalization. Is there anyone in this country to answer me what and what is the purpose of this Agency for Schooling and Professional Training of Staff and 45 employees? First, I ask not a parliamentary question, but a reward – what are 18 of them doing, what are they perfecting, what are the staff, how much do they spend money, what do they do more? And all these agencies that are so invented, what you would say from the sky, come on, people, do a rationalization and reduce the number of these perpetrators. And now that they've got all the colleagues of this book on past my parliamentary issues, look a little bit and you'll see that with today's day, but that, and this isn't true, we have 22,069 employees in all these institutions. What are we, are we the EU, what are we, are we the United States so many administrations need? This, please, is a question for the chairman of the Council of Ministers and for you, gentlemen of the Ministers. And that, as time runs out, for the High Court and Prosecutor's advice: 'Come on, don't defend those prosecutors who have lost all cases and damaged the budget of this amount, which I was just talking about, 4.5 million so far. There will be 45 million marks and no one there is responsible, nor removed, and I know what I will get from them – it is our inner matter and you do not need to know which are individual. I want to get involved in everything, because you just filed charges, charges against the Serb people and sentenced there 1,000 years of punishment, I want to know."
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10994	Thank you. The next came to ask the question, distinguished counterpart Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10995	Thank you, Chairman. I would ask a question that is also very current for BiH-wide citizens. A couple of weeks later, the contract was concluded on the construction of a bridge on the Sava near Gradiška, where the deadline for construction was not precise. In public, it is said to be the beginning of 2013. My question is – What will diplomacy and the competent ministry do to start building that bridge on the Croatian side and to finish it as soon as possible? What's this about? I don't think Croatia is a country that doesn't have enough resources to participate the construction of that bridge. So that's just a question of political will. A new power has come to Croatia, and I am judging, since I know most of these people, that... might be willing to start construction tomorrow. Why? So take the holidays and buried borders from BiH to Croatia, people waited two, three, four, five hours, almost at all crossings. Well, are we Tunguzi that we do not have the proper diplomacy to put pressure on Croatian authorities, to hold talks? Well, citizens suffer, so imagine when you go, at least I do when I go and wait two hours, so that's crazy. And when citizens in so many thousands wait at the border, therefore because of one bridge, Croatia does not have the means, because the answer on the Croatian side is that it did not predict the funds to build that bridge. Therefore, I think it has the means, these are not great funds, only that there should be one political will and it should be pointed out how important this is for BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10996	Dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10997	I will ask the Council of Ministers the question, although it concerns several entity, or cantonal levels, but I hope that the Council of Ministers can collect this information that I would like to learn: 'What is the total number, as well as the total value of the realized cases of public procurement in the period from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2011 in public enterprises, and all companies where state capital exceeds 50% at entity and cantonal levels? Of which, how many items and in which amount are realised through the tender according to the law, and how many objects and in which amount through the direct contract?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u10998	Thank you. And no more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. Confirmation of Council of Ministers' decision to replace Minister of Security, Defence Minister and Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH On the basis of Article 15. The law on the Council of Ministers of BiH, chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers Vjekoslav Bevanda, is 25. Six. In 2012, he delivered this decision to the House. The decision comes into force when it is confirmed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I am opening the debate and giving the floor to the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11000	Greetings to the chairman, members of the College, distinguished MPs, colleagues from the Council of Ministers, guests, media representatives. With the proposal for a decision you have received, however, I am taking the opportunity to further explain the proposal for this decision. The Social Democratic Party of BiH has referred to me as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers' Council of Ministers' Initiative to launch the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers from the Party of Democratic Action in the Council of Ministers. The request requires the replacement of the security minister, the defence minister and the deputy minister of finance and the vault. Following consultations with all party presidents who make up the new parliamentary majority, the House of Honor was also proposed. 20 The legal basis for making this decision is set out in Article 15. The law on the BiH Council of Ministers. The processes we have launched and which we have brought BiH on a path to the EU must not be stopped. Even more needs to be speeded up, which is primarily a basic task for all those who chose us, so the necessary reconstruction of the executive government must be carried out so that the reform processes will not be halted. With all this in mind, by handling democratic principles, committed in efforts to find the best solutions, not for political parties or individuals, but for a general improvement in BiH, respecting the legitimate political will of the majority, I have made a decision to replace BiH's security minister, BiH's defence minister and BiH's deputy minister of finance and Treasury in the BiH Council of Ministers who come from the ranks of the SDA. I use this opportunity to thank the ministers for their correct contribution to the Council of Ministers' work so far, and to stress that this decision is a product of political consideration in which the policy they are currently representing has no support for the majority. Finally, I would like to point out that the reconstruction of governments like this should not be taken dramatically, because, in fact, during the whole term, certain corrections are necessary, and this kind of nature, in order to achieve the stated goal. In my conviction that the proposed decision will receive your support, I thank you for your attention and take the opportunity, in agreement with the Kolegijum, to read this decision, although you have contributed. So the decision is based on Article 15. Law on the BiH Council of Ministers (the BiH Official Messenger), No. 3003, 4203, 8106, 7607, 8107, 9407 and 9408), the President of the BiH Council of Ministers shall take the decision to replace the BiH Security Minister, the Minister of Defence and the Deputy Minister of Finance and the BiH Treasury. This Decision shall take effect on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union, and shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Sadik Ahmetović, Minister of Security at the BiH Council; 2. Muhamed Ibrahimović, defence minister at the BiH Council of Ministers; 3.. Fuad Kasumović, deputy minister of finance and vault at the BiH Council of Ministers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The decision takes effect on the date of confirmation by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. ♪ Men, men, men, men, men, men, men, men, men, men, men, men, men,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11001	BiH Vjekoslav Bevanda 21 Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11002	Thank you. Let's take it in a row. Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11003	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of Ministers, I was just pleased that the chairman of the Council of Ministers had come out to present to us the successes of the new Council of Ministers' call, here after almost five months, but when I received a decision on the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers from the SDA, I was deeply disappointed for two reasons. The first way, and the second substance of the motion for a decision on the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers. As far as the way goes, I don't think there's a lot of words to be spent, because it's the right of every political party to make a parliamentary majority and to make political arrangements about some platform, about some political goal, agreements, etc. I have never had a chance to see any platform or... a political idea, a political goal based on which a new parliamentary majority was formed, and still valid on the dream. In the light of the Decision, and also on the oral explanation of Mr Bevanda, it is obvious that it is at the request of the SDP of BiH. I ask an open question – would Bevanda do the same if the SDA had filed a request for the SDP's replacement of ministers and deputies? Obviously not, it's obvious that it's due to some different political arrangement. So it remains for us to draw conclusions ourselves. Well, I've tried to draw a few conclusions here from the way and the essence of a decision like this, Mr. Bevanda. Even though he acted dishonestly in his oral explanation, it's silly, to say the least, he's obviously not sure himself that this decision he suggested is certain of the qualifications in that decision. Therefore, the conclusion of number one is, which I have drawn, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers is a zealous politician, that he was doing his job, so far quite correctly, how much... he had room and opportunity, but it was obvious that he had become a obeyer of the SDP, or their political leader, is it easier to act as he said or did not give Bog the opposite. Secondly, two of the best ministers and deputies are being replaced. Why? There is not a single one, as well as an oral explanation, they were said to have been very correct, that they were working, doing their job very correctly for the benefit of all BiH citizens. Give me one reason why you're replacing two ministers from the U.S.A. and the deputy? You are replacing Muhamed Ibrahimović, the defence minister, because he has done perhaps more than a few of his predecessors on BiH's path to NATO membership. Is that why we're replacing him? Speak plainly, is it in the background of some political agreement that BiH never becomes a NATO member? Are you replacing him because he finally proposed a solution to the issue of military property? And not to be too long around Muhamed Ibrahimović, which means, no matter what he is, the minister of the order of the SDA, or had our support, our proposal, etc., I think you're replacing the best minister in the Council of Ministers. Are you replacing Sadik Ahmetović because he has done everything in his past and in this term to get BiH a visa-free regime? If that's why you're replacing him, say it - we're replacing him because BiH needs to make a ghetto, we need to be locked up in borders and no one can move freely anywhere. If that's why, say it? Is it because he acted, in a way, that the Anti-Corruption Agency finally saw the light of day? Which is recognizable in the fight against organised crime and 22 corruption, is that why, say? Or are you replacing the Deputy Finance Minister because he has the courage, has the guard to stand up, here through my parliamentary question, or its analysis, to oppose Spiric's unprincipled spending of public funds? And the public knows the courage of Mr Kasumović, that he has the courage and the guard to tell Špirić, he can't do that, it's not true, etc., etc. The third of the conclusions I tried to draw, so there are still some political arrangements, because you have not offered too much justification for the replacement of these two ministers and deputies. There is a political agreement, and based on this political agreement, here is a new parliamentary majority. And there's nothing wrong with that. But I'd like the SDA Club to know what a political deal it is. Perhaps we will support it too, perhaps it is a faster path for BiH to join NATO, perhaps it is a faster path for BiH to the EU, perhaps that is the kind of reform that BiH will put at the very top of European countries. Why don't we support that? So either it's a question of what I'm saying as a fourth conclusion, or is it a division of the taels, a separation? I'm afraid that's it. And that more and more invoices come every day to the table, here's the leader of the SDP, should do so so we'll support this, etc. Don't forget that today if you confirm the SDA's shift, here's no need to assume what will happen, but I have a feeling that the appointment of new ministers and deputies will not take place in the term of this future coalition. Why? Because here in the Federation, a new coalition was created – SDP, HDZ and SBB – and there is nothing wrong with it. We've been insisting all along that HDZ be part of that coalition. But the coalition will break very quickly, because there is no natural alliance between these three political parties. Because one of these leaders is not responding to any political bargaining, but only obedient partners who will only listen and nod what he proposes and implement his political initiatives, including the one he is carrying out, unfortunately, our chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda. Ladies and gentlemen, it still won't work the way you imagined, you know. Do not expect the SDA to participate in the shift of its ministers, in the shift of the best ministers and deputies. You, if you have formed a new parliamentary majority, explain to the public on which principles it is formed and we have nothing against it. We will defend this country as an opposition party and perhaps stronger and stronger than we could as a party that was part of the parliamentary majority. And we'll be very happy to do it. We will stand up to any political platform that means a new division within BiH, any third or ente entity, as these days speak in public. We will strongly oppose this and make sure that we have the political strength to raise the public to our feet if we have to and face such ideas. Or do you explain to the public what kind of political agreement it is? Is it just a division of ministerial chairs, agencies, public enterprises, etc.? Explain that you do not leave me to draw conclusions from such activities as you do. Or is it, in fact, a political agreement that BiH never becomes a NATO member. You know about the survey that in one part of BiH, 75% of people support that as soon as BiH becomes a full NATO member, only 30% of people support it in the other part of BiH. Is this the implementation of someone's political goal of BiH never becoming a NATO member? Or it's actually running away from reality, which is closest to some reality. Fleeing from reality, there should be political crises where the public and the people will entertain any statements by political leaders who unfortunately behave as village cheaters in public, everyone has been deceived and a legitimate question arises who will make any parliamentary majority after the next elections. On what basis, on which political platform, when everyone lies? So, I'm afraid this is actually running from reality, from the hard life in BiH, which, here to be realistic, is not only the result of the lack of government and power and some paramental majority, 23 but also the result of the global economic crisis, but the problem is that apparently no one is looking for a way out for such a situation in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11004	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11005	I'll be done. I'll be there in a minute. So I'm afraid the closest conclusion is the one I've drawn and the rise of tension in the country to the heat. That people argue with each other, face each other, argue, etc., without having to deal with the difficult life that is in BiH. We and our ministers, gentlemen, will return to the parliamentary majority safely after the first general elections. And this first row will be the order of the SDA, but I'm afraid some sitting here will not be, because it is obvious that their political goals are contrary to the interests of both BiH citizens and BiH states. And we will certainly come out of this stronger and stronger and there will be no room for any social democratic party in that parliamentary majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11006	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11007	So, these recent events that have been called, transmutations, reconstructions, etc., which people have seen as a little bit of a kind of reckoning, not to say war between partners in power, though short-term authorities, common authorities, where the ideal opportunity for opposition, with which it is very difficult now to determine who the opposition is in this parliament. I'm talking about government at the state level now. As things stand now, it seems to be concentrated here in this corner, and the Party for BiH could become the leader of the opposition, is it, as it stands. However, we will not use this opportunity in such a way, for the simple reason, in a way to force the worse in power to do so better for the opposition. We're not, we're, we're sharing people's concerns and this stalemate and blockades, nelados, etc. It costs all of us. That's what we think. Instead of having today, we announced that we would wait 100 days and so on. to discuss the effects of the establishment of power in February of the month. These 100 days have passed, of course, instead of these reports and dealing with important issues, such as the economy, the fulfillment of all these conditions, etc., which we have talked about a hundred times here, we have therefore witnessed, on the scene is this divorce case where partners use all possible means and procedural and instruments to protect vital national interests and quorums, etc., media, staffing etc., transfers, but, which is blackest, not on their own cost but on the burden and cost of citizens. We will not participate in this business, we remain the opposition, as we announced after the election, nor will we settle on any side, in any way. They're responsible for both of us for this situation. And finally, something about form, about the content of this decision, Mr. Bevanda. You've been doing something in your oral address a little bit, but I'd like to ask you to fix this. In an explanation, this is the 24 document that will remain here in the archive, which explains that the reasons for the adoption are practically understood, due to SDP's demands. The SDP has certainly stated in its request that there has been a change in relations, that the new parliamentary majority is, that is, domocratic, and should have been cited. Because here it comes that any political party from this parliament, when it applies to you, you will say, here, has submitted a party to BiH, so I have resolved three ministers. I'm asking you to fix this. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11008	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11009	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the right to tell you I've been all this stuff that's been going on for the past month very hard to receive, because I've experienced disappointment, great disappointment. So my hopes have been geared towards this bloc making steps and leading this country far more successful than last term, according to the EU, according to the NATO alliance. I see now that we will be much more unsuccessful, that we will be much worse, even from the last call of the BiH authorities. This move is a completely irrational move for me. I can't understand this. Just as I spoke publicly about it in 2006, I expressed my congratulations to the SDP as an opposition political party that recognized the value of constitutional reforms at the time and put my position into question and supported the package, which, if adopted today, would have looked quite different, also today I cannot hide my disappointment and surprise by such an irrational process, an irrational move. I don't see anything rational here. All I see here is the crisis, I see the problem, and I don't see how it all comes out. I have not heard too many reasons why such a crisis is being produced in BiH. Mr. Mehmedović talked about the possible development of what would happen, whether to appoint new ministers, what would happen, but what is already happening is actually the subject of occupying all of us in BiH. We deal with ourselves, we don't deal with what we get a mandate for. Our European and NATO path is in stasis. Minister Ibrahimović has prepared all decisions when it comes to military property. They have been with the chairman of the Bevanda Council for a month and a half. Why aren't they on the Council of Ministers and why aren't they in Parliament? It's supposed to be a debate and a topic. The Council of Ministers in 100 days how many laws have been passed in the parliamentary procedure? This should be a topic, to move on, not a body's transmutation of power, and a very controversial and very questionable transmutation of power. You may have, when a mandate is set, political power and political supremacy, but if you want to be democratic, then you must respect procedure and respect standards. It is not enough for authorities to have political supremacy only, standards must be respected and procedures respected. That's all there is to it, and that's the next thing you know that's causing my disappointment. Be careful if any of us have thought here in the room that the constitutional position of the Council of Ministers is such that the Council of Ministers is an organ, practically the body of the BiH presidency. The head of BiH's executive authority is the 25th BiH presidency. The Council of Ministers under the Constitution of Article V in its position of 4th is actually the body of the BiH presidency. No, so there is a special law, but when the Constitution is read, it will be seen that the BiH presidency is the head of the executive government. Has anyone asked the Presidency about this pre-composition? When, Mr. Bevanda, you received a mandate, the president of your political party and my political parties and the political parties who launched this today in the Presidency and all the political parties who participated in the elections and who have representatives here were offered the parliamentary majority whose results you are. Did you ask the Presidency to make a change to the parliamentary majority because you received the mandate on the basis of one parliamentary majority? It's an elemental uzus. There is no reconstruction of the Council of Ministers by one political party being thrown out on the basis of the wishes of one who received a mandate, or some who participated, without offering the resignation of the complete Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency. The presidency is according to the Constitution, which gives the mandate. It has to say if this situation is okay. It gave the term of office of six, and the six agreed on you and we here mostly accepted it in Parliament, without who gave you the mandate, and you are the product of political parties' agreement and I voted for it here, so that decision of the Presidency confirmed. Without it, you cannot throw out or introduce new political parties on your own. You can change ministers under the Council of Ministers Act, because ministers don't do well, which makes problems, which makes you, I don't know, you told us here today, so I won't ask you questions, so you answered that those people who do their jobs are normal, that you're happy with them, you even thanked those people. What do we live for today? Is this democracy? Is this respect for the Constitution? Please, let's give the answers to those questions. I think we're going into a serious political crisis. All of this together in BiH is connected. I mean, what's going on here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly isn't isolated, so it's not, this is directly linked to what's going on in the cantons and what's going on in entities. And instead of turning around to consider, therefore, these questions that Mr. Kunić spoke about, which Mr. Belkić spoke of, here I am, so on what the Council of Ministers did in 100 days, we return the matter to the beginning. We got a road map in Brussels, now that you've been visiting Brussels. So we got a mission on June 4th, as I recall, the representative of the Council of Europe was here asking for the end of the case of Sejdić-Finc, and then on July 4th, so now it's the end of November, or the proposal should be sent on August 31st. It keeps extending, I mean, we're brave like that. But people, we don't actually do anything, we fight between ourselves, and trains pass by. I think this is a big problem. It is only for a while that we will understand what problem we have brought BiH into this move. I, of course, think the SDA won't support this on any level. This is no longer a question for the SDA or the SDA, so this is a simple issue for BiH. I think we are entering a very uncertain period, a period that will be marked by various types of blockades, obstructions, congestion in the European pathway. Legally it's right, and that's what I want to say today specifically, the SDA to defend its positions. And we will do it in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the law, in accordance with our rules of procedure, wherever we can do it in accordance with these acts. And we won't withdraw, don't worry, no move that opposes the Constitution, which is contrary to the law and which is against the rules of procedure. And we'll do it with dignity. We'll point you to these things. And here, for starters, I'm asking you, from this discussion of mine, just take this key thought, give an answer to the question of whether, I say you did it unconsciously, not knowing this thing, you're not the man who would use this, Mr. Bevanda, but you didn't take care of this. Give us 26 answers here, us and the Bosnian Herzegovina public, have you changed the parliamentary majority without the BiH presidency, and do you have the right to do so? Would the Presidency give you a mandate, then when it has given you a mandate, if you had such a parliamentary majority or if you had to say – well, one president of the political party thinks that so, the rest agree, no more Council of Ministers, no more Presidency of your choice, consult, give the mandate, there will be a new parliamentary majority and we will go to Parliament. Not like this. This is the opposite of how the Council of Ministers is conceived, this is contrary to all practices in democratic countries in the world. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11010	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11011	I thought I'd listen to all the discussions and finally give the answers, but here's to prevent the ambiguities of some and then finally I'll take myself as a right and re-apply and if I get the word, I'll say it. I was offered discussions between Mr Mehmedović and Džaferović, where he wonders if this is legally, constitutionally and otherwise. You've got a reason, this is all based on the law, the Constitution, and it's not against any regulation. You asked me if I knew what I was doing, about. I was born, normally raised, finished school on time, when I graduated 22, never decibels, which is your argument, were no arguments. And I want to tell you one more thing. If you object to me for not doing what you probably would have done, to get your ministers dirty and out of things; to protect the dignity of these people, you will never make me behave the way you do.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11012	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11013	You see, Mr. Bevanda, you didn't even answer the question I asked. And the things you were talking about are actually things I'd like to hear. If there's an illegality, if there's a problem, I'll be the first to vote for the shift of those people for those reasons, you don't need to replace them. And I didn't ask you that kind of question. I have tried to be very kind to you, respecting your position as Prime Minister's Chairman and you personally as a man. My question was – did you consult with the BiH Presidency and do you have the mandate to act like this? It was just a question. Nothing more. Thank you. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11014	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11015	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, therefore, what is evident and what is clear to all of us, and in this room and in this country, that we are in BiH and that this country is in a serious crisis. So that's why today, from that point of view, is a good time to talk about this. It's good because the citizens of this country are expecting an answer to everything that's been going on in the past month, month and a half, so, but it's not good to talk about this the way it's been formulated today, to talk about changing ministers, here in this case in the order of the U.S.A. It is clear to everyone in this country that the way we came into this position is that the circumstances under which we came into this position and the particular motive to talk about this today, were initiated by the prime minister, or RS President Milorad Dodik, who first launched this activity and said he expects the SDA to be kicked out of power. Here, today he's not the formal promoter of this initiative. The formal promoter is the party that received the largest number of votes in the country for some reform efforts, for some reform actions. It's in this case SDP. It is clear that Dodik had his own reason when he started and requested the launch of such an action. And so, surely not, there's not much to explain. He could very easily explain why he thinks it should be done and what his political interest is in it. We expect today to hear a political interest and a political response from those who formally launched this activity today and in fact explain to the citizens of this country whether after these actions and whether after these actions BiH's state will be really stronger. So the budget was obviously an excuse. And so, today here we need to make it clear whether he was actually the real reason and if he was... The SDP, I think, is the request for a larger budget that the SDA has put before this parliament and these institutions: is it contrary to their political objectives? Is the larger budget of the BiH state really contrary to the political objectives of the SDP, which in this case saw the problem of why the SDA advocated a larger budget, so it asked for an exorcism from the SDA government, which did not support one approach in which the only state budget fell in this year 2012. So, it's political, obviously it was a political assessment of that political party, but for the sake of the public, for the sake of the citizens of this country, it's important that we talk about this in a democratic and open and reasoned way today. So on which platform will the future majority, on which platform and on what tasks, on which actions will the future parliamentary majority pull the country out of the crisis? What is this activity that the SDP led, and SDA reform activity, and in fact SDA blocked, which is why the SDA did not support them, so it should not be in... or should not be in the existing parliamentary majority? 100 days since the appointment of this Council of Ministers has passed long ago. Unfortunately, here today we are not talking about anything called the realization of what we have called the Council of Ministers. So we're not talking about those life issues. I mentioned, three months ago, I submitted an initiative to obtain information, one written information – how long are we on the European path today or meeting our requirements for submitting an application to EU membership? I've been talking for three months about getting a document from the Council of Ministers, so that on this basis we can have a debate here about what the citizens have chosen us for, all of us in all the political parties. So we don't have the material for it. 28 We remember well in this land that we have not had the Council of Ministers for 16 months, we remember well. Look, I was one of the people who arguedly defended some attitudes and some of the principles for which, today in this form, this parliamentary majority stood out specifically. So we know why there wasn't 16 months of government. Take press-clipping and see what are the key reasons why the state government hasn't been formed for 16 months. So, people who were the reasons know why we stopped it, but we also expect to hear what this is now a changed attitude that all of what we have had for 16 months as a basic political principle and a basic political argument that we are holding back the formation of power on those principles, respecting the legality, legitimacy of the people, etc. What really changed today so that we are more politically mature today, that we are politically matured so that we can understand that there are some interests in this country that we should have respected? Was it necessary to lose those 16 months to defend these current positions in some changed circumstances today? Ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, this one here is the heart of democracy. This Parliament here is something in which we all have a duty to, especially in these difficult times, for this country to talk openly and reasonedly about everything we have in this country and where this country can go in the next period. It's not a dispute for the U.S. to be in opposition. And you'll see what actually means the position of the SDA in one of those ambiences. And it cannot be attributed to the SDA, it cannot be respected to the SDA that something has been observed in the past period by that initiative for change, or for the establishment of a new parliamentary majority, that it has done something to keep the chairs. If the SDA wanted to keep the chairs, we could raise our hands for such a budget, we could have done it in the Council of Ministers, we could have done it in this Parliament and the House of Peoples, and we certainly wouldn't be having these conversations today. Surely today we would not be brought in this way by all of us in this country if we were in a situation where I suspect that anyone serious, especially those who actually started this whole story, so they have an obligation to make sure that the citizens of this country and we, this House, give clear arguments and a clear map of how we're going to get out of all of this. So, let me get this over with. We find it extremely wrong, we find it extremely politically harmful all of what we've been doing in the past month, month and a half. Of course, we will not support such initiatives and actions, and the SDA, whether in power or in opposition, about the fundamental principles of relations with this country and all its citizens will not change its attitude and will not change its relationship. And I have only a brief discussion of the chairman, Mr. Bevanda. So, correctness works, Mr Bevanda said, in his first statement, that the EU accession processes should not be stopped. And so, there's a whole lot of my support here, and I trust the SDA Club, my colleagues, and never, when it comes to the SDA, will be questioned. Or, if we get things wrong, I would ask that we inform ourselves here and sort of clear it up. In this regard, it would be right here to say what it is, which regulation, which process, which law, what step has been taken by the Council of Ministers and that the SDA blocked it and the EU concerned it, therefore, because we have heard here precisely today that the processes towards the EU must not be stopped. So, all the talk about the larger budget, Mr. Chairman and dear colleagues in the Council of Ministers, all the talk about the larger budget, the stronger BiH state, stronger the institutions of the BiH state dealing with EU capture, is actually a story that strengthens this European path. In any case, he's not weak and he's not questionable. That is why I support part of the exhibit that says that for the current SDA policy there is no parliamentary majority. And so, here I fully agree with you and I have no idea at all about the dilemma that this is actually some problem for us. 29 What is true, what needs to be said here today is true, and... that truth should be known to the citizens of BiH: the only process and the only law and the only activity led by the Council of Ministers and which the SDA did not support was such a state budget and, firstly, such a fiscal framework. Therefore, there is no support for the larger budget and stronger BiH and that is ok, but it cannot be said that the processes towards the EU were in some way questioned by the SDA, so this was the reason why the chairman of the Council of Ministers made the decision. I expect Mr. Bevanda, in that sense, to give us further clarification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11016	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Bosić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11017	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I, after these few discussions of MPs from the U.S.A., must express my surprise. I don't think they've been informed enough about how this whole process has been going. And I, as a participant of these talks, must now say publicly that it was actually a conscious decision by the SDA to exclude itself from the parliamentary majority. And here, I'll explain how it went. The six-way talks, in an attempt to reach the budget, made it clear that whoever does not support the budget that we agree will no longer be in the ruling six and that the partner with whom he came to the six has the right to decide on the fate of the one who does not vote for the budget. And the partners who came into this six-armed group were two HDZ, SDA and SDP, SNSD and SDS. And that was an agreement attended by Mr. Tihić. And he was clearly told if that's the way it is. It is clear that there is a compromise on the budget, because without budget there is no way forward and there is no stabilisation of the system. And Mr Tihić chose to exclude himself from the parliamentary majority. So, everything was familiar. Efforts have been made to preserve the congregation’s majority. I have a constant feeling that you, or you haven't been informed about all this, or it's purely politics. And so, if that's what we agreed and if the SDA decided to go this way, I respect that, but it decided consciously. He had a choice what to do. And it's not a dispute for us, because we're trying to be a credible political factor that keeps its word and acts according to the rules. And we will vote in favour of this proposal by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but we have one problem, we have a problem that a six-way deal that was made at the beginning, at the formation of the Council of Ministers, is not respected. Some of these provisions are not respected, and we have come into a situation now to reshuffle power. Therefore, you must know that as far as the position of the SDA in the six is concerned, our position remains the same as it was then. The SDA itself has practically decided to step out of this arrangement, but a new Council of Ministers will not be formed without respecting the agreement made when forming the first one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11018	Thank you. Dear colleague Milica Marković, replica. Here you go. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11019	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, this is more of a correction to the incorrect allegation, and it refers to Mr. Senad Šepić's discussion, which said that Milorad Dodik, the president of the RS, was the first to make a request to exclude the SDA from the Council of Ministers, which is not true at all, and that's why I called in to deny it. It is clear to us from the SNSD that some politicians here in the Federation when they begin to see Milorad Dodik in front of their eyes. But Mr. Šepić, you must know that Milorad Dodik gave you no red card from the Council of Ministers, but you gave it to yourself. And this isn't yesterday's story why you will be expelled from the Council of Ministers today, but a long-term story from the moment you entered the Council of Ministers with all the partners you entered. When it comes to President Dodik, therefore, he has a lot of obligation to take care of the situation and to take care of the RS, and when it comes to you here from the Federation and parties, he has repeatedly called on you, when we adopted the 2012 Budget, to support the Budget and to finish the job together. You thought that what Milorad Dodik told you was said at that moment and that it went into the wind, and it didn't, you see that it didn't. That's when you shut yourself down when you said you wouldn't support that budget and don't blame anyone today, not Mr. Bevanda, not SNSD, not Milorad Dodik, you did it to yourself. And what's wrong with being in opposition? The SNSD was in opposition, so be yourself, none of it will be yours. So, as far as President Dodik is concerned, don't try to impute him, because first of all he was correct to you, he asked you to do it, that budget deal with us. And when you didn't do it, then now you have to see what you're gonna do. And what you're going to do is go to the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11020	Replication response, esteemed colleague Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11021	Here's a little bit. I really don't have a problem with RS President Dodik, no matter how many degrees out there. So, but what was impossible not to notice, so the first to launch such a thesis was just President Milorad Dodik, and in fact that is confirmed by the most positioned members of the SDP, so the people of the SDP leadership who said publicly on television, they asked us to, we started it, we now expect them to support us in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11022	Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11023	Dear Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, this discussion can go in different directions. We can replicate each other, conduct a debate that way, correct the wrong allegations he has. And here, as you can see, the SDP Club is in the present part of the debate refraining from correcting the wrong allegations. We can comment on the allegations of MPs such as one of them that Muhamed Ibrahimović of the SDA did more than Selma Cikotić, also from the SDA. 31 Now I'm dealing with this measurement somehow is not my intention at this point. Or is Minister Ahmetović solely responsible for the visa-free regime, so I would like to open the debate now. Or is it correct that two chairs, or two ministers, are bound to the fate of BiH, so to speak, I think they would go a long way. And that's why I'm going to try not to conflict my views with the views of colleagues who spoke before me, try to preserve both their dignity and their dignity and dignity of this home, especially when we talk about such an important topic. The budget law, to go back to the reasons of one whose consequence today's decision we are talking about, is the Budget Law, the most important act of a parliamentary majority. The SDA itself has chosen to oppose the adoption of the BiH institutions' budget, and this is an entirely legitimate decision by a political party. And with that kind of decision, none of us should have a problem, because that's something that people themselves figured out at that point. Knowing the previously agreed principle of the parliamentary majority that one who does not support the most important act, the BiH budget cannot be part of the same parliamentary majority, the party has also chosen independently to move from position to opposition. So this was a personal act and I was like this, the SDP Club respects it. So people chose that. Now, what might have been the wrong assessment or doubt that this principle will not be respected, it's part of the wrong assessment. We all make judgment decisions that are sometimes good, sometimes wrong. These decisions that we challenge a situation that is once good, sometimes bad, and we all have to live with our decisions and our judgments. Everything that came after what I was talking about, so after the start of the Council of Ministers' reconstruction process, and above all, I am referring to the announcement of an attempt to block this process in the House of Nations, by not coming possibly to the session, lighting this process from a completely different angle. In addition to a very dangerous move for the BiH state, which can mean the introduction of new practices, the practice of blocking BiH institutions, and besides being an anti-Dayton act, the question is whether two chairs are really worth it? We don't think so in the SDP. And despite the fact that the process of reconstruction of the Council of Ministers cannot be stopped, we are afraid of the fact that someone is even willing to go that far and even reach for the moves that are under attack on the Dayton Peace Agreement. And we're worried about that fact. It's not my place to reevaluate what's going to happen at the House of Peoples, but I am speaking on the basis of publicly spoken views and announcements in which direction this story is going to take place. Today it is evident that there is a parliamentary majority here and that, regardless of the discussion, this has a certain outcome. It is also certain that there is a parliamentary majority in the House of Peoples and that without some anti-Dayton necks, it will be very soon completed. To go back to the decision we're going to vote on. It is the result of democratic processes, and we all need to understand it that way and it is not questionable at all. Everywhere in the world, as well as in the Europe where we are all seeking and for which we are all calling upon, it is perfectly normal to respect the parliamentary majority and there is no reason for this to be the case here as well. President Bevanda, whose European commitment I was convinced of on several occasions, and especially at the last meeting in Brussels, said, and I respect it, that in no way should European processes be allowed to be the subject of blockade. And we know that much more stable and politically stronger states than BiH cannot afford such political differences in the composition of the government, in our case of the Council of Ministers. The reconstruction of the Council of Ministers is therefore needed by the BiH state. And there's no reason for anyone to get excited about what's going on. What one of the predecessors said – there's nothing wrong with all this. And I hope that all of us, both the new parliamentary majority and the opposition, will show that we are Democrats and that we will all make our contribution that the time in which someone says we are dealing with ourselves takes as short as possible. Thank you. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11024	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11025	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'm going to quote a colleague of Magazinović who said there's nothing wrong with this. Well, there's nothing wrong with us defending our colleagues, fighting our arguments here and talking on the basis of facts and arguments. The fact is that everywhere in the world in parliaments there are parliamentary majoritys and there is a change in the structure of government, but the fact is that because of this discussion, we from the SDA and colleagues who spoke on behalf of the Club, is this, and the reasons are also for the adoption of what the chairman of the Council of Ministers here clearly and Decidently presented these reasons. I have to say, in his first act, it seemed to me like he was discussing without any strong will, and I'm going to back it up with his words that I tried like this, although there's going to be a stenogram, so we're going to, this is going to be a democratic debate, right? Well, let's say this one, his third position, says - reform processes and the path to the EU must not be stopped. Is that the ministers from the SDA brake? Have they been in the work so far since they were set up, stalled and what is the move they have made that bothers the reform processes and the EU accession process? And you've made it clear and decadent. Then, your statement says - this is a product of politics. So she's clearly said here, she says -- for BiH's overall improvement, but she says -- thanks to ministers, and this is a product of politics. We heard that he was pleased, but I would really like to hear clearly and decadently whether the ministers were working in accordance with the law, were they implementing the Council of Ministers' policy, were their legal solutions at the expense of BiH and did the chairman have any problems with them in the functioning of the Council of Ministers? This political part I understand, it's something else. On the other hand, are other ministers here a product of politics or are they also of quality or is there someone else you might like not to be part of the Council of Ministers? And I'm interested here, but before this shift, there was supposed to be a report for the first 100 days of the Council of Ministers' work, because I don't know how you're going to present in the report some good travel chart on the work of the Council of Ministers, and you had these two ministers and deputies who participated in this work. I'm not going to go to some political views of the SDP here, but really here banalizing things that two chairs are questionable, so that we from the SDA identify it with the survival of the BiH state, it's this kind of banalizing towards the public, like, the SDA is fighting for chairs. We fight for a democratic act. We want to point out that our ministers did well. We're also aware of the results that will be here. But please, there have been statements, I wish that sometimes members of the Council of Ministers who are leaders, I can't influence the media when signing a leader, whether he's party leader or he's like a minister, when they give statements that he's a little bit of accounting. I wanted to ask the SDP leader here, when the budget was passed, the SDA was not against the budget, but it was against that budget, says -- those who do not vote for the budget are taking down the Dayton Peace Agreement. So I asked myself, we who have defended BiH, we who have really fought for BiH, is that just because democratically we are looking for a different structure of the budget, which we are asking for more funding for BiH, which we are asking for it to have stronger support towards the European path, is that the collapse of the Dayton Agreement. But here, that's over, I'm only mentioning it now within this agenda point, the shift of our ministers. And we could open up a series of political issues here, but our democratic right, as is the right of the majority, is to defend our ministers with arguments and we think our ministers have been doing their job well. 33 I would really like the chairman of the Council of Ministers to answer these questions in a decade. Whether he is satisfied with the work of these ministers, whether they have stalled the European path and said he does not want to dirty them. If there's anything, feel free, publicly, but I'm asking for other ministers, too. So we're here to protect if there's anything. We from the SDA won't stand behind our ministers if there's something negative, but you can't protect other ministers from other parties if there's dirt and what you've brought out here, like you don't want to speak for our ministers. That's it. Normally, the U.S.A. will defend its ministers and we won't support this decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11026	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirsad Mešić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11027	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Amir gave me some kind of cream. Of course we're not talking here about whether the ministers were okay or not. I'd say they were fine. Finally, these are the people who voted for the budget, those are the people who voted for the Fighter's Law, and then the situation came that MPs didn't support it. There are a whole series of things and I shorten my discussion because Mr. Bosić, or Mr. Saša, was able to explain what it was really about. Oh, this isn't about some big budget. If we're serious, the big budget would be about 100 million, 200 million, etc. This is actually about the 12 million that were supposed to be to improve the work of some organs. Well, if 100 million were given, that budget wouldn't have been adopted. We in the SDP were dedicated to the previous platform, we were committed to the European pathway, we were committed to correctness, respect and good travel to BiH. But we were also much more correct at the time of the adoption of the budget when the SDP Presidency on three occasions said very explicitly – the future government will be with or without the SDP compared to whether it will be temporary financing or will be brought to the budget. We were fully prepared to be temporarily funded, not to be part of the government. But we also said very explicitly – the future power will be made by those who support the budget. For us, the budget is not that, in fact, a key document and a key story that has to do with both the European pathway and the day-to-day life in BiH. In that context, therefore, the SDP presidency asked the president, the vice president, to meet their colleagues about being very energetic in the story. And therefore, during the two-month period, Mr Tihić had the opportunity to speak with his associates, of course, with Mr Lagumdžija and his associates very clearly to receive instructions on what would happen or what would happen if the budget was not passed. The matter is obviously not understood the way we said it, and here we have come to the opportunity to create a new size called the new budget, i.e. the new government of the BiH state. So, not taking too much time, calling for correctness, as our colleagues say, I'm just reminding, and the truth works, of course, that the SDP didn't actually begin the reconstruction of power. It is widely known that the SDA has conducted very intense negotiations with political entities aimed at changing the SDP. We didn't do it. We first told the SDA – we will be against you unless you adopt the budget without creating any unprincipled coalitions. 34 And finally, all we're doing is repeating it in Ton d.o.o. It's poop. The goal is actually the SDA, having a new majority, formed a government, and what's the problem? Not at all. Guys, we gotta move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11028	Thank you. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11029	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, here's what Mr. Mešić said, what's the problem? The problem is in an unstable political situation, the problem is that the BiH state has come into a very bad position, not only within BiH but also in the region. Mrs. Marković said: either you're with Dodik or you're against him. That's how I understood what Mrs. Marković was talking about. If you listen to Dodik, then your door is open, you have co-operation, you can talk, you can negotiate; if you don't listen to him, you're not part of the process in which he participates. Now, the SDA is not an obedient, the SDP is an obedient, and that's why we have a political story like this. We have a unique position of political parties in the RS area and we have these who want the Federation to listen to Dodik or they won't. Why am I saying this? For the simple reason that Mr Dodik has repeatedly denied the BiH state in his public appearances. Then what are we talking about here? About BiH's better negotiator, Dodik, who has repeatedly denied BiH as a state of equal peoples, citizens and all those living in BiH. For these reasons, we did not agree to these blackmails. And that's why Mr. Bosić came out, and he also talked in this way: are you there or aren't you on that team. We do not want to play on a team playing at the expense of the BiH state. And that's why we're looking for certain reasons here, which is why our people are being eliminated. What is it about those who, through reform processes, want to implement the policy of the SDA? We're all talking about the budget, the SDA didn't support the budget, but we're not going to figure out what the essence of that budget is. She's not gonna have a baby toy, so she won't, but she's not a barbed toy, she's not nice, she's not smooth, she's not colorful, she's not gonna have a baby. We need to talk a little bit about what that budget is. Is this SDA holding down reform processes because it says we won't hold a budget that has a small fiscal framework, which has frozen funding for the next three years at 950 million? Or is it the braking of the reform process because you have such a small budget? Or is it the braking of the reform process because you don't have enough resources for state institutions to do a job in charge of the Roadmap when it comes to our path to the EU and NATO, so you don't have enough resources, you don't have institutions that can function, or are you going to slow down this reform process or that reform process, here, you won't be? Here, I'm turning the thesis because you turned it around. If you are in BiH's budget, here I will now remind us here and what I was talking about earlier: we were against the Global fiscal framework because with such a decision, BiH's budget with... how much, a billion and 28 million KM, as it was in 2011, was reduced to 950 million, and then frozen over the next three years. Instead of increasing BiH's budget due to additional commitments and new state institutions, it has been reduced and frozen. So, we said exactly then why we don't want 35 of these budgets, but we didn't say we didn't want to discuss that budget being created in a different way, while allowing and planning the growth of entity budgets from which it is financed, and we said that, buying planes, entity representations around the world, engagements of lobbying houses with suspicious jobs to work against the interest of the BiH state, funds are being financed by the foundations that lobby around the world for the annulment of court decisions on Bosniak Bošnjak in Srebrenica, etc. That's why the SDA didn't vote for a budget like that. And you can't say in any case that we who have been holding back the reform processes because we wanted the BiH state budget to look one different way, that it has enough resources, that the existing new state institutions can serve, that we hire new people at the Anti-Corruption Agency, that we don't just talk about demagogical corruption, but to hire people in that agency, go into a serious business of detecting those who are in the process of corruption, crime and that then the judiciary and the judiciary can do their job, work on. When such things are set by the SDA, when the interest of BiH is above and our interest, political parties and the interest of all other political parties, then the SDA is not a talker, then the SDA needs to be blackmailed and then the SDA should be eliminated from the further process. However, BiH citizens follow, here is this session, monitoring all developments in the last few months, have enough facts and I am convinced that they will know already in the next elections, and certainly in the next general elections, those who BiH in a different way feel and want it to go a faster reform path and want it to be a state of economic prosperity as soon as possible. We're dealing with ourselves today. Why? That's why while the current Council of Ministers has no model how to get out of this economic crisis. And when you don't have a model of how to get out of the economic crisis, then you deal with yourself. Five months and a little more since this Council of Ministers was formed – I have been sitting in these parliamentary benches for a long time, and I have had agendas of 30, session of Parliament with 30 points of the agenda – this Council of Ministers has brought us down to 7.8 points of the agenda. I think we should talk today about whether the Council of Ministers is doing its job. Why are we telling this story today, and we're not talking about some very important legal solutions that are the future, not us here, our children who will strengthen the BiH state? Well, when we don't have that sense, when the Council of Ministers don't think that way, then we, right here, deal with ourselves. We've been waiting five months for the Council of Ministers' work plan. I don't even know what they're doing there. So as an MP in the state parliament, I was supposed to get a plan of the Council of Ministers' work for this year, to discuss it a little bit, to see what the Council of Ministers had planned there, to build up and then follow the Council of Ministers' work. We don't have that story. And that's the story of prosperity, economics and other matters that matter to this country. And since we're not doing it then we have a story, let's deal with ourselves, let's not just the state, let's get the Federation entity and the cantons into this situation. Gentlemen of the RS, you are fine, you have no problems in the RS, your government is working, and the SDP has created a severe political crisis in the Federation of BiH, in cantons, it will probably move to municipalities and I think it is in a global political story the beginning of the final destabilisation of the BiH state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11030	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11031	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the president of my party has been mentioned and since we are counted as BiH destroyers, I feel obliged to say that today I am entrenched by the amount of untruths I have heard here, which are repeatedly repeated, especially when it comes to the budget. ... My President Bosić said that it all started with this story of the budget leader's agreement, I would say it started a little early. It began with the SDA's motion to postpone the local elections, because you gentlemen were afraid of them. So then you played a little bit, and you thought you'd pick up some points on the budget story, and it's not true. What was the alternative to not adopting the budget? That we don't have a budget, that we have a break in both entities financially, that we have Tripoli on the streets of BiH today. That was an alternative. And it is not true that BiH's budget has not grown, it has increased by 6%. Tell me a country in the region whose budget grew 6%. It's not true that it was given to more entities. RS 72 million of VAT is less in this budget for public spending than it had. Unfortunately, to get out of a situation where your MPs from the U.S.A. to the National Assembly know this very well because in this case they voted as SDS MPs, they were adopted last April's contribution laws and income laws where taxes were raised and there's an inflow from there. Depository records shall be issued. She is in charge, the RS has doubled its duties over the last two years. Hence, unfortunately, an increase in the RS budget, rather than VAT revenues. So, you've been fooling the public. And what did you want? You wanted us to have a bigger budget here going to the administration, going to public spending, going to the employment of relatives, godfathers, uncles, etc., and that's what you've been doing for the past 20 years in these institutions. And do you know who you were taking from? You took from the pensioners, you took from the fighters, from the military disabled, you took from the unemployed. Half a million unemployed in this country – gentlemen, you who have ruled this country for 20 years – are the result of your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11032	We'll probably go back to the subject matter of this decision, that's the agenda point. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11033	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps if Mr Sokolović had replaced the last sentence with the first sentence, I would not have answered the line. A little of his discussion was confusing in terms of the beginning that Milorad Dodik was guilty of everything in this country, to finally make it clear that we were doing well and that the SDP was responsible for everything in this country. But I was enlisted, so then I didn't, I don't think that's the way, we'll end up, I'll state the SNSD's position as far as this whole situation is concerned. We thought we weren't getting involved in this situation today because it's crystal clear. We have repeatedly called for tolerance, for peace, for love among partners, among brothers, so we find this situation difficult to bear. I have a feeling at one point and I wonder who's going to cry for these chairs because it's pretty close. There's still no need for the atmosphere to be this complete and I think this crisis and this heat and this whole scenario is not good. I think we're clear here. The only thing I'm afraid of is sending a very ugly message that brings us back to the Middle Ages that the government here is hereditary, that the government is not elected by democratic rules, but we're going back that someone has to be in power and that 37 can do whatever they want. That's not good, that's not good. I expected, to be honest, this is my personal assessment, that the SDA will withdraw from power, as all political parties do when they disagree. No, I don't want to follow the rules of the democratic majority, I want to do what I want to do there, and I'm not going to get out of power and I'm even going to take some methods that will prevent me from getting out of power. That's not good. We see it on TV where it works and it condemned the whole world and I don't think it's going in the direction, with respect for all the reasons that stand. The parliamentary majority is built on the standards Europe has reached. These are not European standards today. This is a requirement that at all costs it must be in power and that it cannot be discussed leaving the government. That's not good. I think the democratic majority can form, the one who comes out of power tomorrow will form the other majority and show those who were wrong in this way, not this way. And as for the obedience of you from the U.S. to obedience to us, no one will arrive in the next 20 years and don't let me go back to it. We ask Mr Lagumdžija for a meeting, he will not move from Sarajevo, at the first call Mr Tihić comes to Banja Luka urgently, immediately. I mean, I'm grateful to you for that correctness. I remember when Mr. Tihić asked Mr. Dodik to kick down Minister Sadović here. Dodik begged them, we had very good relations with Mr Sadović. He was very cooperative in Banja Luka, a good man. You spent the whole night convincing him that we were in on it. It was very ugly, but it was, it was, it had to, we understood you, remember those times as it went with Sadovic here, this parliament took part in it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11034	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11035	So, I end up, I respect all the arguments, all the reasons, the fight of political parties, but here it's all clear, let's finish what's in complete compliance with the procedure. I think Mr. Bevanda was very clear, and everyone else has a right, of course, from the position, from the opposition and I don't know from what else, to present their reasons and everything else. That's what I'm talking about, I'm saying, we're trying to stay out of this, and we're gonna end up saying our political, if there's any need at all, I think it's clear from this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11036	Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go. Let him prepare... for the second vice president.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11037	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, the guests, we've heard all sorts of things here today, we've heard everything and indeed, here I didn't want to replicate, I thought this item of the agenda would pass without debate. And anything that's said might be better if it wasn't said, I mean, it doesn't make any sense. We like to be brief in memory and short in mind. And then when we don't have the arguments, then our soul is to label someone, so neither do I, the obedient, the dishonest, the mixed, the immature and probably poorly cut, the poorly dressed. Shall we move on? Gentlemen, I will remind you that I did not vote for Mr. Bevanda. So I'll remind you of the debate I had when the Council of Ministers was confirmed. That's when you 38 assured me that it was your chairman of the Council of Ministers. I will not say today that he is my chairman of the Council of Ministers, he is the chairman of the Council of Ministers of the State, because in a regular procedure, by a convincing majority of votes, he has also received a mandate from you to lead the Council of Ministers of this country. The moment the vote was concluded, I accepted that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Bevanda, was that the deputies of Mr. Lagumdžija, Mr. Špirić, and that I do not order all the ministers and they are ministers, presidents, vice-presidents of the country's institution. Now we're talking about how each of us has its own ministers, probably our own presidents. Well, we have our own directors of public companies, so we have our own funds. What are we talking about here? You're looking for a work programme now? Well, the work programme is always required when the Council of Ministers is confirmed. You're a little late, gentlemen. I mean, don't be mad. You're a little late for that kind of search. You're referring to procedures. If the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, or the party from which the Deputy Chairman of the Council of Ministers, which you have supported, asks the Council of Ministers to change some of the structure of the Council of Ministers because it is considered responsible for the functioning of that Council of Ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers respects its deputy and the position of its party, it is a problem for you. So what's it supposed to be? If the chairman of the Council of Ministers won't cooperate with his two deputies, should everyone resign? I like any of them or I don't like them. And I agree that we in this country don't have the space to deal with ourselves, and I think that's why this should end as soon as possible. I am not going to talk about the personalities or the people who have been removed, because it is clear that they have not been removed because they are mixed up, are not removed because they are ugly, have not been replaced because, I do not know, that they have given epithets to the Council of Ministers, but because this is the result of a political assessment, and that is clearly said. And now we're surprised when someone calls for politics. So what's politics? Politics is... Parliament. Well, it's clear that politics manifest itself through the Council of Ministers. He doesn't need anything else. So all we have to do is make sure we always represent the same standards. I spoke to some of you before making any decisions, so I pointed out that it wasn't good that something was being done,...so you told me then, you know we didn't like it the same way, but we were asked by the SDP. And the ones I talked to well know what we were talking about. Therefore, if it was legitimate then, I appreciated it. I have respected the fact that it prevents you from having good co-operation with the SDP rather than with HDZ, regardless of all the good experience in the functioning of some levels of government. And that's fine. What's the problem now? And now that you're putting us in a position to deal with problems inside, and I'm going to say, the Bosniak part of the Council of Ministers, because that's how it's conjectured. We can say that we have established it by, I don't know, some extraterrestrial conditions, but it is clear that there is a meaning of the prescribed ethnic structure of the Council of Ministers and that therefore the chairman of the Council of Ministers has two deputies from two other peoples and therefore I can imagine that they can represent them, having the legitimacy to represent these peoples and proposing that the Council of Ministers work better. ... I am disappointed but unfortunately nothing new has been said, because today's questions I have raised here in this House have been asked to the ministers from your party, ministers who probably think they are just representatives of one party. Because how else do you understand that in two years they don't even apply for a conversion mark to return to the space from which I come despite the strong demands, suggestions, applications, etc., and to invest more in projects to return to RS territory as if there was no such ministry. And on the other hand, we have no stamps in Varesh, neither in Kaknja, nor in Zenica, nor in Bugojn, where they might either return or return those who are not members of your party. 39 So I'm just reminding you of the principles. I want to believe that we will pass a time in which each of us will have his private minister, his private chairman, his private director, that those who receive the regular democratic majority, support, that they will be ours and will be responsible to us all regardless of which parties. And as much as some have cared about this state, if half of what I've been doing these days and I and the entire Bosnian Herzegovic public have heard through the media, though still, from our auditors, I'm afraid it's not the way the state is protected and defended and... that the indicator, even though I've advocated that the budget of the institution should be bigger, but when I see that budget at the time of the temporary financing being inaccessible, I'm afraid that maybe the one we have now is too big. And regardless of my position in confirming this Council of Ministers, wanting the Council of Ministers to really work and not to itself, and me and the HDZ Club of BiH will support this decision, with the expectation that the Council of Ministers will start dealing with their jobs as soon as possible, rather than with themselves. And I remind my colleagues of just one more fact, you are still part of this parliamentary majority, and when you talk about the poor work of the Council of Ministers and you are part of this unhappiness. And unfortunately, and these missing ministers, I don't see any of their laws in the process for the last 100 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11038	Thank you. The second vice-president, distinguished counterpart Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11039	The Honorable chairman, ladies and gentlemen, respected members of the BiH Council of Ministers, and the formation of parliamentary majority and the transmutations of parliamentary majority are the usual occurrences in parliamentary democracies, and obviously BiH is no exception in this regard, at least when it comes to it. Today there's been a lot of talk about everything, and what's on the agenda and what's not on the agenda, but I think that, in addition to all these discussions, we need to remind ourselves of a few naked facts that can't be interpreted in any way other than what they really are. First, for the sake of all of us and those who are monitoring the work of this session, it should be very clear to underline what the BiH presidency's competences are. So to avoid any confusion, that's not the problem. 'The Presidency has the power to: to lead foreign policy, to appoint ambassadors, to represent BiH in international and European organisations, to negotiate, to give up, to agree to the Parliamentary Assembly, to ratify the treaty, so BiH, to implement the decisions of the Parliamentary Assembly, to propose the annual budget, to report according to the request, at least once a year, to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on the costs of BiH, to coordinate according to the needs of international and non-governmental organisations and to carry out the other powers necessary for its functions that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH may assign to it or how entities are agreed.' That's how it stands in the Constitution. This was, therefore, a quote from the Constitution. This is what our Constitution speaks of the responsibility of the BiH Presidency. When it comes to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, there is a decadent constitution. The chairman nominates the presidency, and then the chairman of the Council of Ministers proposes to the Parliamentary Assembly of Ministers in the Council of Ministers. The Constitution also says: "The Council of Ministers will resign if the Parliamentary Assembly votes to him in confidence." That's what the Constitution says. The constitution does not talk about how a minister can be replaced, but that is why we have the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH. Article 15. The law on the BiH Council of Ministers is clear. In order to avoid any confusion again, I will quote: 'The chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers may initiate a procedure for the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers. If the Parliamentary Assembly decides to confirm the replacement of ministers and deputies, the chairman of the Council of Ministers is obliged to appoint a new minister in accordance with the envisaged procedure in Article 10." So that's what the Law on the Council of Ministers of BiH says, and so these are some facts that we need to remind today. We don't have to pretend today like this is some surprising agenda act and it's like today is some big surprise for us. Also, there is one elemental fact: both the SDP authorities and the SDA authorities have decided that there are no more coalitions between these two parties. That is what the SDA authorities have concluded and publicly said they are no longer in the coalition. I think that we finally need to accept this fact and, in the shortest time in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the prescribed procedures, resolve this emerging situation. Any delay in resolving this emerging situation, any escape from that fact goes to harm both BiH and its citizens. This does not contribute to building a positive political climate, it does not contribute to foreign investors coming here, it will not attract foreign direct investment, it will not generally improve BiH's image. It is therefore necessary to understand the fact that a new parliamentary majority has been formed and the ball has to be put down on the ground. That is why I do not think there is any need for us here or in Parliament or outside Parliament to further dramaticise this situation, to further radicalise this situation and the situation. In particular, there is no need for heavy words and for increased tones. All political actors in this country should put the BiH state, its interests and the interests of all its peoples in line with the country's Constitution. Party, individual or any other interests I think we should put in second, third, or somewhere else. I also think that no political party in this country should give those qualities that she does not have. All political actors should show, in my opinion, a higher degree of political maturity, a greater degree of political responsibility and try to resolve this situation as soon as possible, in accordance with the Constitution and the law. The new parliamentary majority expresses the huge political will of BiH citizens and is expressed in the latest general elections. We should respect the will of the citizens of BiH. All together, regardless of who's in position, who in opposition, I expect us to put ourselves in a position to accelerate our Euro-Atlantic path. Anything else, not accepting this will and this fact that a new parliamentary majority has been formed, means not accepting essentially election results, not accepting the electoral will of the country's citizens and democratic principles and standards that apply in all parliamentary democracies. In the end, I want to say that SDP is not the first coalition partner from Dejton to today, the first coalition partner of the SDA. Before us, the coalition partner of the SDA was GDS, today there are no more GDS in this House. Before us, the coalition partner of the SDA were liberals, today there are no liberals in this parliament. Before us, the coalition partner of the SDA was the Party for BiH, today it has been reduced to two MPs. I do not know, nor will I speculate whether we are meant to play the role that in 2014, we may not have any MPs or to be brought down to two MPs, but it is clear that the way we have worked so far is simply more inconclusive. Making an invoice for everything that is wrong with your coalition partner and being in power and acting as a classical opposition is something simple that is unsustainable in the coming time. Thank you. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11040	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11041	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, therefore, after all this lamentation we have heard, and we have long spoken of all sorts of topics, but this kind of commentation in the Parliamentary Assembly has not been seen long ago. I remembered an old saying that says – when a warrior on a painful field falls in a heroic struggle, he remains a winner despite being defeated. So it's not about defeat, it's about how we act after that. This is amazing what's been going on these last few days, not only at today's session, but also in the last few days of what's been going on. We saw that the representatives of the SDA called... to help them stay in power, called on the EU special representative to help them. So what has happened is exactly what many have predicted, that those coalitions or alliances, political alliances made up of someone else that they don't have a future, can't last long. Here, now we're witnessing it. So, first round on the budget issue. Six leaders made a deal, one failed the deal. I wish they were in the current response to this agenda point, and so all the members of the SDA Club said, if one had commented on what would have happened if the budget hadn't been adopted. So, when BiH functioned without a budget in 2011, and if another year had happened, do they think it would have been a minor accident than the adopted budget, which, according to them, does not meet the country's needs financially? There's no worse solution than no budget. And if it were fair, someone would say that. This was a rescue, making a budget was a rescue. How many SDAs have learned the lesson that political alliances are an necessity that requires respect for the minimum political agreement has been seen by the fact that the first more serious act to come has not been fulfilled. So if the opposition, and that's its property, never votes for the budget, then it's clear that the SDA knew at that moment that there would be opposition or they had the wrong assessment, so they thought they'd be able to choose from the package, which is happening here, that one moment they could choose what they like, which they don't like, especially by using the benefits of what they don't like and voting against it now before the local elections. It's politics. If the SDA were good intentions I would, I was thinking this morning before the session, what we heard about the need and care for BiH would really be good if it were true. I'll just remind you of some details of this SDA policy that has been so tenderly concerned all these past years. Let me remind you that no initiative concerning the rationalisation of institutions, the number of employees, the SDA has accepted. For them, the BiH institution is sacred, someone said "holy cow", and there is no controversy about it, whether it works or not. We had recently appointed their director at the head of an institution called the High Education and Quality Development Agency that landed and took off. He's recently set up, a man doesn't stay in the country. He realized that his political engagement was just a journey. That's an indicator. The SDA is the creator of that shameful law that made BiH send thirty-five-year-olds into retirement, which everyone feared. The SDA is the culprit that most of the law... that waited to be completed to make a decision on visa liberalisation, for a year and a half refused to make such decisions, and then at... conferences they accepted more than what was required at the time when the laws were proposed. It's the SDA's fault that for 42 years we've been waiting for the Census Act, at no cost would they accept the expropriation of Article 48 so that they would suddenly accept it. There's a lot of those things that the SDA is guilty of. And I really think, dear colleagues, a man has to live in a private life and especially within some other arrangements to decide where he is, where he belongs. You made that decision yourself. So by voting against the budget, you've become an opposition and don't laminate on it. It doesn't matter who the ministers were, it doesn't matter how they worked, even though they could talk about it. That story is over. I invite you to support the Council of Ministers' decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11042	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11043	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I will begin my discussion, which is a good part of the reference in some of the discussions so far, in the spirit of what my colleague Šepić has invited us to do, which is to talk democratically, openly and in a transparent way, and here I will add politically naked. My discussion will be more in the direction that we all learn from this situation, and this Parliament and, individually, all political options, as well as all of us individuals sitting in this House. And here, let me mention or begin with perhaps a reference to the discussion of counterpart Mehmedović, who addressed more in the context of personal relations, personal merits, personal responsibilities possible, etc., mentioning among other things the merits of the current defence minister when it comes to the Bosnianhercegovic path to NATO, the final solution or hint of a military property solution, or the minister of security on the visa-free regime, the Anti-Corruption Agency, etc. Well, let me remind you, all of us here in this House took part in this, including the SDA and the SDP and other political options. And the merits of individuals, i.e. to address the merits of any individual, even though he was called so and so a member of a political option, is truly illusory. I'm surprised that counterpart Mehmedović was talking about the natural and unnatural coalition, because we sometimes wondered who these were natural and what unnatural coalitions, we were particularly wondering when it was the SDA. This is particularly in the context of announcing that the new Council of Ministers' new assembly will eventually be disabled in the appointment, and in the beginning that possibly some new coalition in the Federation will fall apart, etc. Because of the unnaturality of the coalition. Well, I don't really know if it's a natural coalition, for example. SDA-SDP, etc. Or what's special, for example. that the front row will be in the next period of the SDA, etc., alluding here perhaps to some sitting in the first, second, third and fourth rows. Well, I want you as someone who sits in line four to point out that it doesn't matter where you sit, it's important that you sit with honor. As of today, counterpart Šefik Džaferović sees the crisis in the BiH state. Imagine, until today, there was no political crisis, as long as the SDA sat peacefully in the Council of Ministers and other entity governments, etc. There was no crisis at all. Now it's a political crisis and a terrible disappointment in the SDP. But this is where the political crisis begins now when the SDA should leave the political scene, in terms of the ruling political option, I cannot help but wonder how the colleague Šefik and his colleagues from the SDA, who have indeed long and parliamentary experience and good political filling, etc., have not seen the 2010 crisis, 43 since the election when we were without executive authority for a year and a half. How he doesn't see how many people have since then, and especially in the last six months, five, six months, how many people lost their jobs, how much GDP we've dropped, how much the fiscal deficit has increased. That was not seen at all, nor would we hear it here from the mouth of the SDA, nor would we open a debate on such a subject. Why there is no law from the Council of Ministers was a question... asked by counterpart Šefik Džaferović with the right and other colleagues from the SDA, etc. My colleagues, ask yourselves, we are asking ourselves this question and we have been speaking loudly since the 2010 elections, since the announcement of this new spirit, since you have been fully identified, so with Caspere partners. And would you, say you stayed in power, ask a public question why there is no law? And would you ask for a debate in this House on the state of this country? So far, it's never been heard from the circles of the SDA. Now, when he goes away eventually, or needs to leave, we have a political crisis, all of a sudden, our problems are apostrophe, and then of course we're wondering what's going on with the sight that's so intrinsic and so time-dosing. Did Mr Bevanda change the parliamentary majority himself without the presidency? The issue was asked by counterpart Džaferović, president of the Constitutional Commission, who knows very well what counterpart Bećirović just read that the presidency has jurisdiction until as long as we have a mandate. The moment the term of office in this House is elected to be the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the Bureau shall cease to be responsible for the appointment and resolution of members of the Council of Ministers, including the chairman. So, she completely forgets that the previous parliamentary majority, in which the SDA colleagues were also called together, are constantly talking about two places, please don't forget Fuad Kasumović, he may be what, 0.5 but he is unforgettable, so forgets that the previous parlamentary majority has been granted precisely in this hall, not in the Presidency, not elsewhere. We've been talking about 100 days, the last 100 days of the Council of Ministers, and we're not talking about life issues. A hundred days ago, to be clear, two months ago. For the last two months, please correct me, has a parliamentary question been asked here about the first 100 days of the Council of Ministers? Let's be open, naked completely, just as counterpart Šepić called. Have we talked about life issues? counterpart Šepić says he waits three months as long as we are on the European path. You see, seven months ago, we asked a question that is burning, not only for BiH, but for all European countries, regarding the economic situation and the deterioration from day to day, from hour to hour. We have not yet experienced this initiative on the agenda, and you are wondering what your initiative on the European path, set up or launched three months ago, has not come. Well, why didn't you ask the President of the Commission for European Integration? You know what political option he comes from? From yours. I do not give for law, such as my colleague Belkić, neither side, everyone here is responsible and no one can amnesty. counterpart Saša Magazinović says the SDA has chosen not to vote for the budget. The one who doesn't support the budget, the most important act, goes to the opposition. That's right. And when it was the story of the budget, I said that one of the first things I teach students, when it comes to the budget, is that the budget is a mirror of politics, so if it is a mirror, here we see right now, if the budget is what it is. However, counterpart Saša Magazinović, you did not mention whether it was SDA against any budget or budget that someone somehow set on the plate. Speak and announce counter-constitutional action in the House of the People and without excitement and without reference to the Constitution. So, unconstitutional and against the law, together with the SDA here, you adopted the 2012 budget for 2011, so together with the SDA. A kolega, Fazlić, is talking about the need for a report on the work of the Council of Ministers in the first 100 days. Here, what I just said, 100 days went by in May. If this hadn't happened, the motion for a decision by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, you probably wouldn't have asked such a question by chance. 44 A Kolega, Mešić, mentions the SDP dedicated to European roads, integration and reforms. It is quite logical and similar to the SDP, however, who has prevented the Council of Ministers from sending at least one European law from calling the Council of Ministers into parliamentary procedure over the past five months, at least one. What were the hints, so I expected this Parliamentary Assembly to have a permanent session. It is true, counterpart Salko Sokoloviću, that it is a unstable political situation, etc., that BiH is in a bad position in the region still, but it is not from today, it is not from entering into the decision procedure and a proposal for a decision by the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda. The political situation is unstable, and at a time when you were part of the parliamentary majority. If counterpart Dodik or RS president denied the BiH state to honor the parliamentary majority, here I am asking you what you would have wanted with him to enter the parliamentary majority five, six months ago. Maybe I don't know that you didn't make a coalition arrangement with your colleague Dodik. The Council of Ministers' work plan was discussed on several occasions by counterpart Belkić, from the election of the Council of Ministers and beyond. Now, where does that come from, he's asking the question of the Council of Ministers' work plan?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11044	Comrades, time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11045	Here, I'm bringing the end. Chairman, allow me just for a little while longer. A colleague, Bećirović, mentioned that the SDA should not delay because it does not contribute to the European path, foreign investment, etc., and I would also ask, in the end, the SDA to give an opportunity for others to speed it up, both the European path and foreign investment, not to delay, because the new parliamentary majority will give arguments as to why we are late on the European road and why there is no investment. Please do not prevent a new parliamentary majority, i.e. do not give them arguments that there are no investments because of you and that we are late on the European path. Thank you. (?) No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11046	You will have the opportunity to respond to the replica, as they now have two replicas on your discussion, you will have the opportunity to respond. Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11047	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I do not know what I would call this now, is a replica, but I must confirm one fact, which the distinguished colleague Azra Hadžiahemtović stated, that no matter where it sits, it is important to perform honorably the position of MPs. He's right about that. But if I didn't know the relations in this House, I'd think the previous speaker was a spokeswoman for the SDP Club, so you know, I'm gonna touch Mr. Denis a little bit, you know, and a little Saša, but you're not good with the SDA. Well, probably that Alliance love for change remained in 2001, 2002, so now that's 45. And I respect that, of course. But if you're ready to criticise the work of the SDA, that's who we don't give a chance to others, we're not arguing anything, but we're contesting the way and the essence of the proposed decision, I was talking about it. No argument to replace ministers from the SDA, two-and-a-half ministers if we're already going with the numbers as the esteemed Azra said, we haven't heard any arguments here. Well, of course it's the right of a new parliamentary majority and nothing is disputed. We don't dispute it, but we dispute that the public needs to know, well, so here we are in this House, and as an opposition party, we need to know on which political platform, what is the essence. Because Mr. Bevanda has been given the presidency's mandate on a particular political platform and the public is well known. Let's see what's controversial. So, both colleagues Lozančić and I don't know yet some speakers have mentioned, here by the way, my discussion, contesting some facts. We're not arguing anything, we just want the public to know why, how, in what way, we can't, don't make us vote for the shift of our ministers. We won't do it because we haven't heard a single argument, and we could bring hundreds of other arguments to the dissatisfaction of some other ministers, especially those who are sitting here today and who have proposed such an initiative. Therefore, this is an opportunity to respond to Mr. Bevanda, who says 'this is a product of politics'. Okay, we agree, the product of politics, but which, tell us which. Is that just a request from the SDP? If that's it, and if what you wrote in your explanation 'on SDP's request is true, then it's something else entirely. Therefore, colleague Lozančić, nothing is disputed about the SDA Club. Make most of it, you've made most of it, show the public on which political platform, go ahead and do it, and of course we don't have the mechanisms to stop it. But it is obvious from Mr. Bosić's discussion that you will not appoint members of the Council of Ministers, or ministers of the new one until it is appointed director of the Communications Regulatory Agency. Therefore, it is obvious that there will be more blockades but it will not make the SDA again, we will only use the mechanisms that the Rules of Procedure has, which the Rules of Procedure has given us... And if you consider these obstacles to the Rules of Procedure to be a distraction, here you go, change them, you have a majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11048	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11049	Here's very short, there's no way people can get rid of the propensity of some structures, plots, etc. So, we are no one's speakers, we are the speakers of our party and we have spoken very clearly today and we clearly determine ourselves. And our commitment is to get this over with as soon as possible, this divorce lawsuit you're doing, not on your own account, but on this country's expense. I speak in plural. And we're absolutely clear. Of course we've been commenting on some things, we still have a lot to comment on. When we mentioned the work programme here, when the Council of Ministers was confirmed, there is no such thing as attacks on us from all sides were – what kind of program, what are you talking about, you are from the Berlin Wall of Government, etc. And we're very patiently listening, here's two years, we've been sitting here, we're the opposition, and we're going to be the opposition. Here, I said a moment ago that we might also be leaders of the opposition. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11050	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11051	I'm thinking about what to comment on now. The Council of Ministers' presidents is being asked persistently to give an explanation. A man wrote an explanation, who can read it can read it, went out for a pay phone, repeated it the same, read it the same, then again no, it's not that. What you wrote and what you told us I don't want to hear, I want something else. Write, so man wrote openly, transparently, clearly what it is. I might like it, too, and I don't like someone else, but it does. Whether there's politics or not, I've already said that. I mean, to say that there is no policy in law enforcement and in institutions that are the product of political action, I don't know what it has. Will it be worse if the Council of Ministers changes? Well, I'm pretty sure it can't get any worse. 100,000 unemployed, or 100,000 people in BiH, in last 2011 were out of work. In the Federation 50 and a few thousand. The Minister of Industry, Energy and Mining rather than cutting off the tapes of earlier projects should open some new projects. That's your minister, as you say, from your party, I mean, I wanted to believe he's ours, but apparently not, since it's only those who are yours and aren't ours, obviously. So you should open up some other projects, I think. And if salvation is such a concept for the Federation, for the state, we better... let's change so it might be worse. But it seems hard to be worse than it is. That's why I'm against us stalling this. So this is what it's supposed to be. If in 15 days half of the Council of Ministers needs to be changed, if that's why we're working, change all governments in this country, because citizens want results and concerns, what we're saying, whether it's my fault or your minister. So, the ones who are out of work, we're all guilty of them, and the ones in the opposition and the ones in the position. Let's all do something together, but let's not defend chairs at all in the Council of Ministers and Governments.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11052	I see that there is often a change in this part of where replicas apply. Are you tired, are you going to take a break or should we continue in this rhythm? [[Common discussion]] Let's keep going. Then, Šemsudin Mehmedović, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11054	I have to react to this Beriz finding that we are in power from the Berlin Wall.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11055	No microphone 47 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11056	I'm sorry, then I got it all wrong. Then I'll replicate Mr. Lozančić. You know, Lozančić is a very principled representative and I respect it, but here to bring up, here, the problem of going back, the problem of opening these drives, which is not the authority of this Parliament or this Council of Ministers, and he knows it well and knows it, at the very least, is not meaningful, you know. Your arguments are thin. But if Muhamed Ibrahimović has not done enough to address the issue of military property, he has not done enough for the accelerated pace of BiH towards NATO, say clearly, give there any argument, and I am in favour of replacing him, let's change him, or I don't know, any other minister. Therefore, that argument does not stand, I ask you to take care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11057	Dear colleague Senad Šepić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11058	So, briefly to all those who have been saying that the SDA is holding back the establishment of a new government. So, for the first time in Parliament today, we are talking about changing power and appointing new ministers. Why didn't you, there's a month and a half since this initiative was launched, come a memo to President Bevanda, why didn't you call a session of Parliament 40 days ago and finally solve this? You have a majority, you have a new parliamentary will, you put it on the agenda and you end it, but you challenge us to tell what we think here, so I think that everyone should understand that we have a full political relationship, we have our own political position and only where we want to make the most of this position is this Parliament, and we in this Parliament are going to say clearly and loudly in fact what are all these reasons, what we think is currently on stage, on the political scene in BiH. So if it wanted to be legitimate and wanted to break out any kind of argument to someone to hold something back, you could have done this 40 days ago. How much I've been informed 30. The 5th has arrived a request from the Central SDP to make this happen, the session could be scheduled for the day, for... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11059	Right, the session was scheduled as soon as we got the decision. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11060	Here, I'll answer it briefly and I won't answer again. You see, it's clear to me what is whose jurisdiction, but I'm talking about principles here, principles I'm talking about. We can't have one principle in the morning and the other in the afternoon. So we have to have all the time, if we're referring to principles, we have to have all the time, and that's why I'm citing some examples, because we can't get one principle here, and the other when we get to the federal government, and the third when we get to the cantonal government, then the fourth when we get to the community. I'm sorry, we're political entities that work in the whole territory, so let's not think that people are ignorant, that they don't understand what we're talking about. You won't drag me into the story – I can even say very positive words, but I don't think that's the subject – about all the people who have been replaced. So, I'm not discussing people at all today, I'm talking about the legitimate and legal law of the Council of Ministers' Presidents. At a legitimate request, a man has the law, which we are calling upon, by procedure to make a decision and he has made the decision in accordance with that law and 48 procedures. Those who call for procedures should respect them, nothing more. And the man said he expressed respect, gratitude to the people he replaced, because it's politics. The Council of Ministers' composition defines politics, which collects enough hands here in this House has a Council of Ministers. I mean, math, we all know. Therefore, whoever is no longer a part of it is no longer and that is the reason, so let's not make it, neither do I, playful about what kind of person Mr Ahmetović is, like Mr Kasumović, like this Ibrahimović, etc. They are honored personally, but are obviously no longer part of that majority package and that is only a reason, and this is said by the chairman of the Council of Ministers very specifically and very correctly. So I think we're just wasting our time because I assume the president knows he has enough to implement this decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11061	Thank you. Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11062	Well, you see, here it's said that I'm criticising the SDA, etc., so I really need to say, firstly, to remind you that I started my discussion and referred to the discussion of my colleague, Šepić, who called for us to speak democratically, openly, in a transparent way. I have done just that, thank you, I do not regret that I have done so, I have not referred at all to any move by the SDA, not to any individual of the SDA, but to what has been heard here today from six SDA MPs through discussion and arguments presented today in this context. The fact that you six debated, and two MPs from the SDP, it's a game of numbers, I've referred to everyone's discussion, both sides, and what someone sees in all of what they want to see, or what they're afraid to see, or, I don't know, what qualify in some third way, that's his problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11063	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11064	So all the discussions that came outside the SDA clearly indicate the desire for the SDA to leave power. Someone's doing it for these, someone for those reasons. And given our political position, our platforms and attitudes, I must tell you that it is a compliment to me, and may those who want to build new positions on the trail, among other things, and what we have heard here today in Parliament. For the SDA, it's a compliment and that you know that the SDA is not going anywhere, we can be in position or in opposition, but we will always be here in Parliament, and we will always represent what we represent. That's one thing, then. The other thing, so I'm amazed by that amount of desire for the SDA to be eliminated. Well, you guys can analyze why that is. There's a lot of answers, we'll talk about them in the future. And we'll be reminded of these moments. And the other thing about the Presidency and the Council of Ministers. So, the thing is quite clear. The presidency also consults when it sees the parliamentary majority asking for a mandate and then a parliamentary majority mandate is given. This is where the parliamentary majority changes beyond the Presidency. The chairman, both by law and by the Constitution, as I interpret 49, can be replaced by the minister, but he can't, at least it's unclear, or at least it's rude without the Presidency to do so, changing the parliamentary majority. He may change the minister from the same party, to give the party a second minister, but there is a change in the parliamentary majority. Read the Constitution, read the Council of Ministers Act, and you will draw conclusions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11065	Thank you. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11066	Thank you. I have to say, for this point, I didn't want to discuss it at all, and I'd like to replicate my colleague Azra. She is, however, a professor at the Faculty of Economics and Mathematical, i.e., arithmetic or numerical abilities of hers should be a little clearer, because at least until the count of 10 she needs to know that five MPs were discussing, not six. And if we're up to 10, then it's for sure that... everything is multiplying. I'd ask if... I didn't comment. The other thing is, I have to tell you something, no matter what I didn't want to comment on, because this is a 20-year-old thing. You were the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. When everyone is, and I've followed Slovenian politics often, information, when everyone says milk is corrupt in both Slovenia and ours, and you say it's not. And please, I wouldn't want us to act like samurai, but definitely take responsibility for the period in which you are the key. Look at your mandate, I must say that there are very few laws adopted, which we are talking about today. We're talking about milk, about fruit, about vegetables, about seasons like last session of colleagues one said, but I think that we are in that period, it would be far different. As for Mrs. Majkić, while I am already in a position to replicate, I have time, I am absolutely not surprised by her statement when it comes to the SDA's views, I know that you, for BiH, can say, are struggling. But no problem, that's what you as a messenger can do, no problem. As for others, let me say first of all to the SDP, I am concerned by one thing, although I must honestly say, I expected that the SDA and the SDP, regardless of how we speak in principle, unprincipledly, whether it is normal, abnormal, I still expected that we would try to reconcile some attitudes in the most part, regardless of what we are different, and that's good that we are different. However, I will be happy if we see from the Minister of Transport and Communications in the coming period as air traffic, road, maritime, river, postal, if we see progress and investment. And exactly the problem of everything is investment, employment, economy, etc., that's the key thing I think. However, as this will come to an end, I suppose there is no problem, but I will stick to definitely the views of my party and I will do everything to try in some way constructively to participate in the next period, no matter how it may be, but I think I can also conclude this, reminds me of this situation of the bride who after four, five months divorces the groom and asks for another partner. Whether it will work with another, I think time will show its own. 50 thanks.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11067	Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11068	Thank you. My replica refers to this finding by Mr. Džaferović that someone here is in a hurry to drive them out of power and that is a compliment. As far as the SDS is concerned, we don't care who represents the Bosniak people in the Council of Ministers and we will never choose that. As President Bosić explained, you disqualified yourself and that is the SDP decision that we do not have the right to dispute, as we would not allow anyone to interfere in our mutual relations and agreements with the SNSD and with who it represents and how RS. But what is our obligation is to protect the interests of the RS and therefore we will insist on a consistent implementation of that original agreement. But before you go into opposition to give you any more fears, since there have been some statements here about some entities, fourth, fifth, sixth, I don't know how much, here I am informing you that according to the SDS and SNSD's joint appearance agreement, the only change in the Constitution that comes into consideration is the implementation of the Sejdić-Finc verdict. So, as far as the Prudic Agreement is concerned, and this Prudic Agreement, gentlemen, I will remind you, SDA leader Sulejman Tihić signed and said he advocates a territorial reorganisation of BiH organised by four and more territorial units. I'm glad you gave up on that, too, and I welcome that attitude of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11069	Okay, now let's talk about us, dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11070	The Honorable Chairman, so here we are, not to get the wrong picture in the public how we of the SNSD are keeping our mouths shut, and we decided not to interfere because this is not the SNSD thing and this crisis so-called. in the Council of Ministers and the functioning of the BiH government, we absolutely did not cause it, and if and for what we should be grateful for then we should have received it today. But here, today, colleagues are being called to the Constitution, and I have warned them countless times here. First, it is unconstitutional to call the Council of Ministers a government because it is not the BiH government, and then it is unconstitutional to call BiH a state, because nowhere in the Constitution does it say that BiH is a state, it is a state union of two entities, but it would be difficult to pronounce it, you know, the state union of the RS entity and the entity of the Federation of BiH makes the state, in the end I will not be angry, BiH. So these are all unconstitutional categories. Gentlemen, we in the RS have no interest here in any coalition with neither the SDA nor the SDP, because we're not in the coalition with anyone. These are emergency partner relations, which is how BiH was made, and we don't care, we have problems, and we also had SDA when we protect the interests of the RS, and we will always protect them here because we are. We'll have, I know in advance, and problems with these new partners, not coalition partners, but partners and emergency relations with the SDP because they'll ask a lot more, I guess, but it's a new transfusion and give it to your entity here, the Federation, and just tell us what you've agreed, and I know what you've agreed, and we from the RS are clean cheeks, without any disturbance, without 51 problems to vote out a new Council of Ministers, a new parliamentary majority, and I already see you announcing that you from the U.S.A. are going to stop something up there. Stop what you want, we don't participate. And in the end, I've said it 50 times here, I'm not a spokesman or RS President Milorad Dodik, but it's an honor to have you mention him here. I really enjoy, where I'm lucky that you have such a president and entity and party and that you can aphimically mention him as I do. And I have no reason but to say -- thank you, President, for running the RS entity, that's important to me. And whatever you two agree to, I'm definitely on temporary duty here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11071	Thank you. First deputy chairman, distinguished colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11072	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, first to respond to my colleague, Jovičić. So we have an entity president we mention more than Dodik. Therefore, regardless of what we are talking about today on a very sensitive issue, I am very encouraged by the level of democratic culture in this Parliament and the way we are discussing it. And I'd say in this debate, I recognize, therefore, a full-scale kaleidoscope of democracy here. We had the debates by ruling the opposition's versus, the opposition's opposition's opposition, the competition that, who's the future leader of the opposition, we've even had some debates ruling -- the Versus ruling. But now let's get back to the point of things. We have a chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers who, in accordance with the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure, has proposed a reconstruction of the Council of Ministers. We have a parliamentary majority behind this proposal that follows the principles, that is, the principles that we have been pushing for from the beginning, that this parliamentary majority has a total civilian majority in it, so the total legitimacy of the citizens of BiH and the majority legitimacy of each of the three constituent peoples, and therefore, from a principled point of view, I see nothing disputed here. No Niko here, I think, and I can especially say in my personal name, did not want to eliminate the SDA from power, given that the SDA has been the greatest legitimacy of the majority people in BiH since the beginning of democratic changes, so here it is today, individually. But no one can deny that the future parliamentary majority also lacks the majority legitimacy of the Bosniak people. And the situation is certainly diametrically different from what we had some years ago and a few months ago here in BiH. Next, what platform is this new parliamentary majority? In short, for me, this platform of conclusions from Brussels, with high-level dialogue, and the Roadmap that we have adopted and behind which we care, so to speak, and more than the existing parliamentary majority and this future one that will be established here in Parliament. For a brief look at what was the cause of all this, for I was a participant in these six-six conversations. And the meeting when it definitely became clear that one of the parliamentary majority parties would not support the budget, back to the essence of the talks as they ended. There was an attempt to compromise, to increase the budget and there was a willingness, I would say, all there to increase it by the level of material resources and material costs for police agencies and the Border Police, so for agencies that care about security, constitutional, legal order and borders and refugees. There was no willingness to increase the salary amount, because before that 52 in Banja Luka agreed that the salaries of the administration would be reduced by 4.5% and, ultimately, by someone here said, my colleague Bosić seemed to me that at that meeting, it was clear to all what position the party was putting in that position that would not support the budget. How's that? I think that no matter what the outcome will be, and the outcome, at least as far as today's Parliament is concerned, seems clear to me from these discussions, I believe that this parliament and this set, which was elected here in BiH after the general elections and appointed at different levels of government, will show how much BiH is by its commitment to the realisation of the Roadmap and the conclusions behind Brussels. The first test before us is already, I'd say, in ten days. As far as I know, a meeting of six or seven is planned. As far as I'm concerned, I don't mind being a seven-year-old girl in Banja Luka, when we should discuss exactly the realization of that map of the road. And the first point in this Map times and the first term is August 31st when it is due to propose to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Amendment to the Constitution based on Sejdic-Finc's appeal. We, therefore, through this process, which is before us, all of us, and the government and the opposition, and through our ability to answer two test chapters, to the questions that have been asked in Brussels and which were handed to us by November of the month, will actually show how much we care about BiH, to all, to be in power, to be in opposition. If we pass that test by the end of the year or by the end of November of this year, we can hope to... In 2025, be a member of the EU. If we don't pass it, we won't be there by then. Here,... this is my deep belief based on what I have during my stay in Brussels, conversations that formal, which informal, have heard from people in the EU, as they impose more and more stringent conditions on the countries that come to order for the EU. Croatia has had the strictest conditions so far, Montenegro has even stricter terms than Croatia and I fear that if we do not do what is up to us this year, and all of us are here, regardless of who will be in power or opposition, it is responsible for the future of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11073	Thank you. Comrade Emir Kabil, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11074	Dear President, dear colleagues, I am pleased that she is a new bride, because we represent the new bride, and I am sorry that Jagodić is not here, in our people the new bride usually means younger, better-looking, more innovative and better. And I'm glad I'm part of that team. I'm not talking about broken milk, I'm going to talk about a serious problem, so if you want, and from a medical point of view of our honourable MPs from the U.S.A. It's not easy for them, it's not a pathetic story, it's not easy for them. They made a catastrophic bad assessment, three thousand people on the ground were left without something, three thousand people were fed with something someone was building, and we all know it well, we know perfectly well, businesses, boards, families, etc., etc. Dear MPs from the SDA, that's your problem, that's the problem on the ground, here this is not a big problem in Parliament, because you have a safer position now more or less. There's a whole other story in the field, and it absolutely doesn't match what you're talking about here. I'm talking about practical things going on in the field, so if you want, both state, federal and cantonal authorities. 53 I will refer here to two speeches, first Mr. Bevanda, who spoke of the legitimate will of the majority. Honorable MPs from the SDA, you are 20 years of the legitimate will of the majority and thanks to that coat you did everything you could do, either good or bad, and that's legitimate, absolutely legitimate. And the other thing I'm going to refer to is Mr. Bosić, who said you broke your partner's agreement, I'm not talking about coalitions, partners of the majority. It means that even when something doesn't like it, you have to accept it because you're going to get a concession where you didn't get it and where you can't get it. So I believe that there's a fundamental problem for all of these discussions that you're having here today that you've made a catastrophic political assessment that these five will give up because the ratio of 5-1 nowhere in the world, not in any mathematics, is defined but in this way that if you're one against five, you're losing. Or maybe you had some political assessment that one would collect from the other the new bride and endanger these five that are capitalists. Unfortunately, but unfortunately for you, but capitalists, and these are the facts of your political, I would say, indiscretion. Refer in this discussion to the current situation which is difficult is ridiculous, and to the best ministers. Please, someone here said, what are the parameters of who is the best minister? Well, I'm on one financial committee, so you've all been participating in power, so we've discovered that in many of the ministries where you ran the government were the worst reports, audit reports and every other one, and that's the fact, that's the fact. You say there's been a new division of talowe. I'm afraid you're desperate for something else. You said this wasn't a natural alliance now. What you were was a natural alliance, I still don't get it. As a new bride, we believe that we are not a natural alliance, and as a young woman, we think that we are the top partners who will stop all the processes that you've been holding back. For example, in Tuzla canton for a year and a half, all the school boards have been blocked, because one of the SDA's powers won't or won't get or take that school that's in the division, we've cut it off in two minutes. Which means the school board, which means only because some man wants to manipulate other people. New division of BiH? What division of BiH? You think that with the SDA going to the opposition there will be division of BiH. Politically, I think you're doing terrible damage to everyone, especially to your sympathies. BiH is older than Emir Kabil and all these MPs here, and Bog help me from the SDA. That BiH will not become a NATO member and that your minister is leading all the roads, the respected ministers, whom I know very well, according to NATO, a ridiculous story. It is one process, a clear process defined by international contracts, an international community and the will of international powers. Unfortunately, we are not the ones who will influence that will, we are the ones who will carry out that will. You're saying there's a terrible political crisis, or there's going to be a terrible political crisis. I argue responsibly that the political crisis will quiet down and calm down, because all those animosities of old ladies, the old girls, will shut down. You say we're running from reality. Unfortunately, when you have been in power for 20 years you become irrational, you consider or lose all your control mechanisms or similar mechanisms that keep you active or proactive. You can't and can't have the right to neither the SDP nor the SNSD or anyone else to respect the fact that they're creating this policy, because you've been in power longer than they are, and they've been the opposition. Why did they team up? Political thresholds. So this argument that you've made is absolutely excessive. You're talking about irrational moves. Irrational moves are not new coalitions or new partners. Your move out of power or these six parties is an absolutely irrational move and I can't possibly explain it, not from the point of view of political logic, not from the point of view of moral-ethic and other codes that you should respect and that you have when it comes to your people on the ground. 54 You say that processes towards the EU must not be stopped. What processes towards the EU? Processes towards the EU are homework. I've traveled a lot, and I've studied outside, so I know how the Western world works. We can postpone to one point or one line, but I argue responsibly that when Europe and the EU assess that they have quality partners, and I think they will now have better partners, that these processes will be where and where they will be faster and better and more efficient. Next, you say why our people should be eliminated. Who's talking about the elimination of your people? Who here eliminates your people at all levels, from canton to this instance here. It's not a problem here, the problem is down at the base, in the municipalities, in the cantons. You eliminated them, you shut them out of power, and you, to be honest, to be completely honest, denied their normal lives. That's why you're responsible and you're responsible for political responsibility. Secondly, if five parties don't support you, like I said, there's nothing to talk about. You have to make a political assessment or the five parties are okay or not. Five games are a stronger and finished story. It's called political thresholds. I try it with 2% votes to change either 3% or 10 is an absolutely irrational move. And I think it's the same consequence of the infection and the high temperature that lasts 20 years in your mental setting. You're saying clearly that everything will fail after you. Before I tell you to go into opposition in a dignified and gentlemanly way, it's not a shame to leave after 20 years in opposition and ask all these questions that you need to ask and challenge if you want in the most qualitative way position. Just once again to tell you one thing. Every day in the world, between 10,000 and 20,000 companies fail. Every day in the world, between 5,000 and 6,000 global large corporations fail. Every day in the world, work loses close to two to three million people. Every day in the world from position to opposition party, at least 100 to 200 parties cross. No matter what, every day in the world and every day mankind goes forward. So, you understand, you are nothing imaginary, you are part of a normal process and you need to understand that BiH and the world will move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11075	Thank you. A colleague, Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11076	Dear chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, after three hours of discussion, we are already quite tired. I will focus in my presentation on one element of the debate which may not have received my final answer, although he was present... in a crowd of debaters. First of all, I would like to point out that this whole debate and discussion is indeed exudeing a high democratic tone and it clearly shows how important the political consensus is for the benefit and progress in BiH. Political consensus is what can ensure progress in BiH and that political cultures of political parties come to a high level and the need for consensus to be found almost bordering with a system of values that individual parties promote. And all parties have to change and I don't think there's any party, not even in this six, that hasn't been experiencing any changes to this coalition partnership that's been working for the past few months. And in that sense, I think that the SDA has just shown this 55 inability to produce, participates in the production of the compromises needed for the country's progress. It was not resistance to the SDA budget to the figures and the budget, it was a resistance to the reform course that was started in the concept, in the area of the concept of the 2012 budget. And that's the platform that SDA colleagues keep talking about. Well, the platform is created by walking, the platform is created from one problem area to another, and so we can ensure progress. So it was resistance to one reform course, one reform platform in the domain of the budget, and that's why we have such large and difficult implications for the absence of such a platform. I would like to say that we in the SDP consider it an important political goal to strengthen BiH institutions. The BiH state is a condition for the economic and social well-being of BiH citizens. It is probably a good framework and a basis for progress in European and Euro-Atlantic integration. In the end, it provides legal certainty, the social situation of people and we in no way allow any monopoly on BiH institutions and the monopoly on BiH. We, however, differ from the SDA, which we believe BiH institutions should develop, given the economic opportunities and economic constraints of BiH to participate in funding, i.e. to ensure the financing of these institutions. This means institutions must be subject to rationalization, subject to optimization. They must provide value for many, so value for the money that is given for their functioning. They must be as subject to the criteria of efficiency and functionality as possible. That's how a functional state can be created. And the request for a higher budget does not at the same time mean a request for more functional institutions, more efficient institutions, etc. And I am not going to burden you now by repeating what all this budget has been adopted in such a democratic competition idea, what it has brought, but it has certainly taken one big step in the reform course in BiH and I believe that Prime Minister Bevanda can expect a better rating, credit rating at least from this base, of course some other elements have to be acquired in order to actually realize it. And I would like to make it clear that in fact, the SDA has led to self-exclusiveness from this political partnership and all the consequences resulting from it are practically consequences... which should be seen as errors, but mistakes with sanctions. And these sanctions are the subject of today's debate. In the end, I do not want to say that honey and milk will flow in a new partnership or new, in the reconstruction of the political partnership. It takes a lot of work, takes a lot of effort, takes a lot of political wisdom to accomplish the big tasks ahead of us. But that must also be done in this sense and this decision, which has been proposed today by the Council of Ministers, is inevitable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11077	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow Members, given the length of the debate and given the state, please sign up for the discussion and close the discussion list. The ministers asked for a word. Under the agreement in the College and the Rules of Procedure. 68th and 167th, I'll have the ministers turn around, and then the MPs who want to replicate on these... and I'll give it to you because I always have MPs in the first place. But I'm asking you so we can plan a break. The list of discussions, if no one is applying anymore, I will conclude with Mr. Mat Franjičević. Mr. Mato Franjičević. Here you go. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11078	Mr. President, I'll be really brief. I will not waste much words to commend colleagues who, by discussing this sensitive subject, have shown an envious degree of democratic hearing. I want to say that as far as HDZ is concerned, our position is clear, and it has been brought out by a colleague, Lozančić, and it is based on the following two important things. We want to respect, when it comes to the construction of the institutions of the rule of law, the constitution and the laws of the prescribed procedure, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, some fundamental principles to be respected. Despite the attempts by Mr Džaferović to argue that in this case respect for the Constitution of the envisaged procedures is questionable, I think that the Constitution is fully respected, all the standards prescribed by the Constitution have been incorporated and respected by this decision proposed by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. Also when it comes to some basic principles, I think they too are respected and something was said about this by counterpart Božo Ljubić. It is also clear in this pre-composition in the creation of this new parliamentary majority and in the newly assumed appearance of the Council of Ministers that all three constituent nations will have their legitimate representatives, i.e. to be most legitimate. And that's what, once again, I have to point out, is very important to us from HDZ. I would like to invite everyone, especially my colleagues from the SDA, that when we call on the principles that we try to be truly principled to the end, because when it comes to principles, it can be either principled unconditionally, and not be principled at a certain point when it suits my or some other political option, and not respect the same principle when it doesn't fit. I would like to warn of the fact that the time has matured for this same principle to be respected at the level of the Federation of BiH, that we also get a government that will be duly legitimateized by representatives of all three constituent peoples so that in all of BiH, at all levels, we can really go far more secure and much faster along the path towards what we are rhetorically all swearing, according to European and Atlantic integrations. I don't know, I'm afraid I don't take too much time, but I have to say, given that some of the sentences issued by the Council of Ministers' chairman in explaining his decision, one of them is that the reform process must not be stopped, it would really not be good to stop these reform processes, and unfortunately we are aware of the announcements that these reform processes could also be stopped by blocking the work of some important BiH institutions, such as the Parliamentary Assembly, through a possible, hope that it will not come, the blockade of the work of the People's House. Here, once again I thank you and, of course, as far as we're concerned by HDZ, we will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11079	Here's a replica of two. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11080	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, just a question to Mr Franjičević and Mr Ljubić, since they are calling for legitimacy and not only here but they have pointed out protection before when it comes to the Croatian people. Here's to explain it to me because I obviously don't understand it well – where is the legitimacy of the Bosniak 57 people, through which political option in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly? Is it the House of Representatives or the House of Peoples? I'm entitled to another replica, so I'll answer later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11081	Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11082	Thank you, Chairman. I didn't answer for the discussion, but here I have needs through the replica, since you concluded with your colleague Franjičević earlier. Here today has been heard from a large number of debaters respecting standards, respecting procedures, respecting legality and respecting constitutionality, then ultimately and legitimacy. It is true that this should be respected, but the BiH scene, especially in the Federation, is about political, legal, legal and constitutional violence. For this, we have several meanings of examples, very eclectic examples where one of the Federation's ministers resigned and the resignation was signed by the Federation president by law and by the Federation Constitution. But there are some interpretations of legality and constitutionality, and they say -- no, he's still a minister because he signed the Federation president that it's not worth it. So if it is, here, today this Parliament, this level of government, the Council of Ministers, here we should respect the will of the majority, and parliamentary, and legality, and constitutionality. So it is true that we should respect constitutionality and legality. You've had examples, is it, where there's a new parliamentary majority calling itself in a certain time of 26. 6. Although it was scheduled to be a session... all to settle for 2. 7, it also appoints a temporary board of directors who do not recognize the law. So the law doesn't recognize it, I'd like him to recognize it. So there's a muscle breach there too, is there? So I'm glad to be here today that I've heard that lawfulness and constitutionality are respected. But there we have to be principled and then respect it at all levels and not just at the level, possibly, where it suits someone. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11083	Here, now my colleague Mato Franjičević will answer that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11084	I guess I won't cause any new replicas because we're really in a hurry, it's time to go. As regards this issue, colleagues of Sokolović, of course at the level of the House of Representatives and at the level of the House of People, can be seen in total, and in accordance with the procedures prescribed by the Election Law, whether there is legitimacy or not. I can, of course, agree that these procedures are not precise enough or they are not entirely accurate, but here we are, perhaps, in these efforts to reach agreements on the implementation of the Sejdić-Sejdić-Finac judgment, to improve these procedures, to make them both more precise and more transparent and more adequate in real state and real definition of BiH as it really is. As for counterpart Jurišić, don't mention any errors in the procedure when it comes to the president of the Federation, the Federation government, when the very foundation on which these institutions rest in a procedural sense is unquestioned, but unconstitutionally unconstitutional and unquestionably 58 illegal. And we all know very well that the Central Election Commission as the BiH state institution, which is the only one in charge of caring for the law-based implementation of the elections, said its when it comes to the election of the Federation president, and, of course, of what followed from the Federation government and beyond. So don't repeat any old stories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11085	Thank you. Here's a little more explanation from fellow Božo Ljubić, and then Zvonko Jurišić will, just a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11086	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am directly called to answer the question. It is clear that the Council of Ministers confirms itself at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. And when we talk about civil and people's legitimacy, then he's here, in this house. However, I hope that after this, colleagues from the SDA will now support our long-standing efforts, HDZ '90, to change the constitution in a way that in the decision-making process in the House of Peoples a clause is necessary for a decision-making half-dozen who includes most of the clubs of the constituent peoples. And now to explain to those who haven't been clear for six years why we were against the April package. This is exactly what we asked to introduce into the House of Nations a clause that, besides most people in the House of Nations, there must be a majority in each club of constituent peoples. Here, we remain in those positions, and I hope that now after this you will also support the introduction, and that the Council of Ministers is confirmed in the House of Nations in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11087	I hope it's easier now, the cameras are gone. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11088	Here, I'll brief my colleague Mata Franjičević where he himself claimed, probably as his party thinks, that the election of the Federation president was unconstitutional. The gentlemen had the opportunity to make an appeal at the time, they had the possibility to refer to the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court, because it is the only relevant institution that will say whether something is constitutional or not. It's not me, it's not any of my fellow MPs. But if he was already referring to the choice itself, so today we said, we heard discussions here that someone had turned himself off, whether, at that time, the party to which counterpart Franjičević belonged, meant that he had not acted anti-Daytonically, or obstructed the election of envoys to the Federation of BiH's House of People, then he would probably not have been the current Federation president elected president. But, I'm saying, the anti-Dayton action has led to the fact that Parliament has been formed without a whole, here's what we're not going to explain now, the Envoys' Club of the Croatian People's Order, and five out of 12 has always been more than one-third, if we're going to mathematically. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11089	Thank you. I received a request from Minister Sadik Ahmetović to address it. After that, respected Minister Zlatko Lagumdžija and then chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda, if necessary. Come on, please in that order.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11090	microforone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11091	Business or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11092	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11093	Come on, come on. I thought it was wrong.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11094	No, I won't, I'll do it for a while, I'll say hi, so the way I saw all this. First, overmixed the HDZ, and then it transmuted the U.S.A., until noon like this, from noon like that. I hope that we will no longer combine after this and that no one will cross over and that we will all be in a position to better live in BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11095	Thank you. Minister Ahmetović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11096	Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, it would be my turn to say a few sentences here today, given this debate that lasted almost half a day and a proposal by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers to resolve ministers from the SDA. So, I responsibly argue that the chairman could not write anything else or anything else, only he could in his explanation identify the real culprit for the emerging situation in BiH, which is becoming quite a mess, and it is written there that it is probably SDP, therefore under the instructions of SDP President Lagumdžija. But here, in a certain way in BiH, it is a democratic right that at a time when we combine for a year and a half to make the Council of Ministers, immediately after a few months we change and slow down all the directions that BiH has in terms of its internal and foreign policy objectives. It is likely that the time ahead will show what are the damages to such a decision that is currently on the political scene in BiH, given that the adoption of the BiH budget as an indicator of this crisis is indicated. And one of the MPs here said they tried to compromise, that it was increased by law enforcement agencies. Why wasn't it brought in that way, because we're not asking for a raise for law enforcement agencies, for the sake of the SDA, but 60 for the state. And when you talked about it, why didn't you finish it and why you didn't increase by a number of millions of law enforcement agencies, unless it's of interest to have a weaker answer for law enforcement agencies in the next two years, because it's clearly someone's need. ... So, if we're talking about the European pathway, then I had a little map of the road ahead of me in relation to what BiH is waiting for when it comes to European integration, which is a map for the visa-free regime for BiH. If we are talking about a European path, then surely the chapter is the security and justice that requires the most answers and the most work for our country. If you have reduced budgets in these agencies, you must have slowed BiH's European path. So that's it. So there are those who understand this, there are probably those who don't understand it. Today all the time, so I am sorry that the chairman said this because of the reforms, because of BiH's European path. The first thing, therefore, is the first mistake you make in order to fit this new coalition here, at the beginning you're destroying already existing European law, it's the Law of Conflict of Interest and you're bringing BiH back. Is that your first response to BiH's European path? So you should tell that to the citizens of our country because they know how to read and I believe that they will know and recognize it in the next period. But I also know it's a law for one man, not for the one on the poster two years ago, but a law for another man who was also on other posters. BiH's heritage, I'd say, is only democracy for the last 10 years. '91. For years, we had our first elections, and we couldn't end it in peace, so there was one hard war in BiH. After that, foreigners came to us and ran all the processes in BiH by 2002. And just when we started, here we have, again, a return to and collapse, both the Federation Constitution and the law that should be respected if we are calling for a European path, because this is the basis of every EU member today. And so don't talk about it, because you deny it every day through procedures, both in the Federation and at other levels in BiH. I know that there are different interests here and I respect them, so as a politician who deals, here's a certain period of politics in our country. Different political parties have different interests. But I will say as Minister of Security, because it is my responsibility, after whether I leave or when I leave this place, then I have an obligation only to my family, but now I have an obligation to say a few sentences as Minister of Security and what it is today and what security is in BiH and why certain political interests are also linked to this transmutation of government in our country. In this country, fortunately, there are more in police structures, prosecutorial structures, and judicial structures, and intelligence structures – more honest people. There are fewer of them than dishonest. Most of them are connected to organized crime groups. Most of them are connected to organized crime groups, most of them. I'm talking about most of them, most of them. And that, my only mistake, so I'm talking about the political needs of certain political structures one or more, why, why, why you replaced these thesis, the first state and the Federation, it was probably the pressure of those who today want to get into power in BiH, to stay part of the story so that they could end all this, my mistake is that we brought together a few police officers and some prosecutors who were determined to get to the very top of the people who deal with and run organized crime in our country. And maybe it's my fault because I went a few steps ahead. You know what attacks Dragan Lukač had because he talked about certain things. Time will show why the BiH prosecutor was removed. Are those the reasons we could watch on television or are there other reasons? Time will show why, and at this point is the first interest, and until a few days ago it was an interest to make a reconstruction of the federal government, to make a reconstruction of the state government and to stop at it. We can't go any further, because the 61 constitutional structure of the Federation is quite complicated and you can't go any further. But you'll end up, so Mr. Lagumdžija and the SDP, a job for those who force you to do it, which is why you either have to or have some obligation to do it. But what I certainly know, so the area where organised crime is introduced into the structures of this country, organised crime will have its own country, because these are not steps that will lead us to the EU. These are steps that will certainly bring us back a lot of steps. I know this will again cause reactions and different comments in our country, questions why there was no more work. I've already answered this question, because because you have in the structures of all those who prevent it, but I'm also sure that the time ahead is safe time that will either have falsified trials, and organized crime will do its job, to show the public that we are dealing with and fighting organised crime. And that's why these pressures on the media in the federal parliament are to secure this media space, to show it or it's something else entirely. The SDA doesn't protect the chairs. We're trying to stay longer to have less to fix when we get here in two years. Anything we stay longer, we'll have less to fix what can spoil the SDP. This was seen when they ruled the Alliance from 2002, 2000 to 2001. And then the happiness was that we had strong international institutions, the question is to maintain peace in BiH. You're witnesses to that. So then we had an international community that supported the process and we had strong institutions, from military, police and other institutions, so they stopped any conflict in our country. I wish you all good luck. We will fight to stay as long as possible, so that you can spoil this as little as possible, but also to all those who don't think about the future of this country, think about their own personal, self-interests, I want every good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11097	I thank the ministers. Dear Minister Zlatko Lagumdžija... Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11098	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, of course I really listened to all the debaters, those I agree with and who I don't. I've been trying to help myself through all of this together and me and you all go out together and go as far as possible learning how people behave in a home as this one. So that everything we do is democratic, first of all, to show a democratic culture that is not our better side. But if we can't get to some heights that maybe the world expects, sometimes we can get to each other, then at least let's make this all together as dignified as possible. And just keeping your dignity, both you and your colleague and colleagues I've been sitting here with for a long time as an MP, an MP, I won't say much. What's more, most of what you're supposed to say, I'm not going to say. I have to admit, I'm very sorry this happened. I am very sorry that when we tried to put the parliamentary majority together at different levels about a year and a half ago, I was really convinced that colleagues and colleagues from the SDA were the ones who really wanted to reform 62 countries and reform themselves. I thought we should give them and all of us a chance. I believed that was the case. Unfortunately, unfortunately, time will show, neither of us failed, and we had to go through this, unfortunately. As far as we're concerned, he's the best man to say what you heard before me. I'm just saying this a little bit about dignity and everything to come to me from what I've heard here. And I saw you react. Here, if this wasn't the point of the agenda, here's that the Minister of Security on the dot of any agenda came out and said what he said, that's quite enough reason for us to turn on all the red lights, and that same security minister after that simply tells you I thank you, I'm the Minister of Security in which, if I'm not precise in the quote, paraphrase, most of the people in the police, prosecutors and justice, most of them are connected to organised crime. And then to be more precise, if we had heard it well, then it is said, but thank Bog thanks to a small number of people in those structures, who is, something is fighting. Let me, as they say, that I don't know who you are, when you're sitting in that function and when you come to that knowledge, then it's the elemental thing to say – there's something that needs to be changed here, and first I need to get out of the way. I'm deeply convinced it's the other way around. Surely in every structure, in every political party, in the party from which I come, there are structures related to bad criminal and all kinds of actions. And that's not emancipated to any stranger, to any nation, to any profession. And if we have a problem with such structures, it's not a dispute. But the problem is when these structures go from one small percentage, when such structures go into politics to a two-digit score, then it's called fascism is at the door. But to claim that in one society there is one structure organized, which should be the basis and the protection of the rule of law, that it is largely composed of it, it all ceases. I have to admit, almost two months ago, we talked about this. We have two, two things ahead of us. One issue is the huge and economic, social tensions that exist in society and our common goal of moving faster towards European and Euro-Atlantic integration. To move faster towards NATO, to fill faster what we agreed in Brussels the other day and get. So that's one thing, how to turn to it. And to turn that around, we have to have institutions that deal with it, and they don't deal with themselves. Now, everything needs to be done in accordance with the Constitution and the law and no other way, but where we need a little more democratic culture. I'm asking and I've asked the gentlemen of the U.S.A. for the past few months, please do this without us. Do it without the SDP. Please do this. If you can, take it now, we're leaving now. Do you have a democratic majority and a passing of legislation in both homes, with anyone? Yes, you do. We're getting out of here right now. No, you don't. It's the principle of a democratic world. The constitution exists to protect such a spirit. Oh, no. You've decided to use all constitutional and legal procedures possible, to actually behave in such a way that we can't deal with what we're chosen for. So, you've become masters of the procedure to stay where you are. And you'll fight to the end so that once you win, you'll have less to fix. You will have the most to fix and most will have to fix whoever comes in 2014 if this condition, now as it is, lasts longer. And for the record, whoever comes in here will have more to fix because you leave this like this. And use every principle possible. You mentioned 2001. You had another president back then. Then she won, the Alliance for Change assembled, then 22 MPs gathered in that hall downstairs, 22 signatures gathered. That's when your president said -- okay, that's democratic will. At that time, Halid Genjac, as a member of the presidency, opposed even a large number of requests from his own party, supported the prime minister because he had 22 signatures behind him. And he knew that behind those 22 63 signatures he would be removed from parliament as a member of the presidency. That's what man did because he had a democratic habitat of culture in him and he had a president who, by his nature, was a Democrats, no matter what history of all this would say. You don't have it now. But okay, and that's democratic. Since you're worried about the Bošnjak, don't worry, don't worry. This country is tired, wounded and unhappy with all possible exclusivity, so tired, wounded and unhappy because of your exclusiveity to defend your people, not from those you must defend it, defend it from yourself at last. It's not the number of people in the House of Peoples, that's what you were talking to me about when I talked to HDZ, you convinced me that this was a reflection, and representing the people is not the number of people in the House of Peoples. Great. You know how well you have the voices of the Bošnjak behind you. The parties... in this parliament that are sitting, voted by the Bošnjak or for some only Bošnjak, not to say those who have not passed the threshold, have over 800 votes, over 900,000 votes. Here are these four or five parties here, over 900,000 votes. What's yours? 200-220, me, and what do we do now? So I think what it came from, what you thought of it. I, too, surprise me, am obliged in this House to say a few things, because this will all remain. That when your president comes out on his favorite TV where I see him more often than an egg in the fridge, I see a man out there explaining that I'm doing all this because Dodik ordered me to do it, and then after that in... sentences he said that Dodik was complaining about how I asked him to do it for you. You don't know where you are anymore. And I would ask you that those who mentioned village cheaters here are really not okay with your president and people who aren't here to call them that. It's not right. It's not right to call people who aren't here so they can't think of anyone other than themselves in this room being able to see them like that. What's it important to say here? There's something about the budget I want to say about things that are our priority, about the budget. What's our platform? What we agreed in Brussels the other day, the seven of us, is our platform, our obligations to the EU and NATO. And our platform is to realize and implement it, among other things, thanks to a mechanism called the budget. Our platform is also in the budget, which, as it is in these circumstances, was, in this reflection of political movements and forces and forces, the largest possible. Let me remind you, for those who bombed the people with incorrect information, in 2008, the Direct Taxation Administration had income of 4 billion and 900 net KM last year, and this year it is also not expected... but we will throw it from the net income point of view of the Directorate for indirect taxation. 4.9 billion. Why? Because of the economy. Yesterday we had on the Council of Ministers the information you'll get on the service of external debt. In 2008, our external debt amounted to 4 billion and 240 million, with 31.12 this year at 6 billion and 660 million. Just so you know, in these four years, it's not only that our debt has increased by $2.4 billion, and this has not been done by the Council of Ministers under its patronage, but it's that the debt has gone from $550 million to 660 for business activities, and for the public sector from 700 to 700 billion and 700. And that's why those holes that were talked about in the RS and Federation budgets in their budgets. Next, you need to know why we're in a hurry? Because in 2008, there were 250 million in the budget for foreign debt payments, this year 450. From 250 to 450. And next year, for your information, it's time to count the 750 that have been charged by the last governments at all levels. In 2014, happy new 2014, 100 years since the beginning of wars in these areas, 770 million. And last year there was supposed to be, or in 2008, 250. And now that you look at it, it's going to turn out, you know who's having problems, and that's what counterpart Pandurević was saying, you know what the problem, what we've agreed with such a fiscal framework, is that first, in 2013, first, foreign debt is being serviced, and then the state is being serviced, all of 64 incomes 4.9 billion that won't be spectacularly larger if we don't change our overall behaviour. So who's talking about betraying the state here? So, to short this story, I am truly deeply convinced that we must turn to what is the solution to these very problems, and you may know that, as far as I'm concerned, I repeat once again: what I told President Tihić before I sent a letter to Mr Bevanda, whom you refer to so much, I prayed to President Tihić together with, here sits Mr Ljubić, with Mr Bosić, Dodik and Čović, asking him to accept this budgetary framework to put in the money for refugees and these police agencies. We asked him to then conclude that in the first rebalancing, which would be necessary, he would take care of all other requirements. And we begged him nicely to do it. If not, I asked him to take responsibility for the temporary funding that we go to a press conference to say – SDP comes out of this, because we won't take responsibility any further. So, the thing is very clear. Everything you do according to the law and procedure, stick to it like a cat for a chair, it's all at the expense of all of us, and so are you who do it. And we'll be sorry to have to do it that way. I'm terribly sorry we're doing this. And you must understand that if you are able, you gentlemen from the SDA and anyone else, collect any majority that is qualified in this home to move forward, you have the resignation of all people from the SDP, from me and beyond, immediately. And that's a democratic principle. That's what I'm gonna teach you. Perhaps not you, but in another term of office when you're in a position, is it, when other people come in, when you have another president who's a Democrats in his habitat? And finally, I want to make it clear here, all those who ask me about the division of the tables, about the SDP leaders' invoices, about the third entity, and about what I agreed to, I want very clearly to say -- the agreement that we made, as regards the Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci ruling as a starting agreement for further debate, is a part of us entirely based on all the principles that we agreed on in Brcko, at a meeting in Brcko where there were six leaders, on which the principle that a model will be found to reconcile both civil and national, which will allow us to have representatives of citizens and that people who, where the people represent themselves, have a certain degree, how possible it is to do so, the legitimacy of their people, without creating national electoral lists, because there were also such ideas without new entities, without new entities, without third, fourth and Bog asking which. So, it's all arranged. And anyone who talks about it and calls on me first of all if I agreed to something like that, you can be sure that never a man who runs the SDP will agree to anything, so I don't see what I would do. I'm thanking you... Bevandi, which is in a certain way, has he, and protected me like this, because his resolution of ministers is the result, exactly, of my formal request given to Prime Minister Bevanda. Just so you know, I first had a conversation with President Tihić here and I begged him, first I begged him to vote, at the last vote in the House of Peoples, for the budget, and then when he didn't do it, he begged him: let's speed this up, you can't have most of it, if you can get it right away, if you can't back down. Leave your resignations in accordance with the Constitution and leave in accordance with the Constitution in opposition. And be assured, I am fully convinced that the more you defend BiH from the opposition, the stronger it will be. So if you want to defend her so much, give her some help, be people and with culture democratic and do it out of opposition. In us you'll always have a partner, you see that since there's a bit of a crowd now who's going to be the leader of the opposition, you see when someone imposes themselves as the true leader of the opposition, you see how quickly they become power. So this is for teaching everyone that it can do fine, that it goes well. And thank Bog for this country you don't need to worry, but to know every day that you stay in places where you don't have a parliamentary majority is a direct shooting in BiH and these economic issues, the social and this other about the 65 I've told you about. And I'm sure your statement, Mr Ahmetović, will be subject to a much more serious debate. And don't worry, I, Zlatko Lagumdžija, the leader of the SDP and the citizen of this country, don't owe anyone anything but the people who gave me the vote, and I'm afraid of your last steps that you owe both to Bog and the people.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11099	The chairman of the Council of Ministers asked for a word. Mr. Vjeko Bevanda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11100	Since the debate was concluded, in agreement with the kolegij, I decided to give a final statement on this. With regard to the procedure, there were a lot of objections. For the procedure, the basis for this decision is the law and I have nothing to add and take away and it says it in this decision, and in the explanation, and in the introduction, as I said. There was an observation that I had to consult the presidency. That's not true. None of these acts are prescribed. It is true that it was a written initiative of the SDP, but it is also likely that some of you put the plugs in your ears when I gave an explanation, because the written act was the SDP's that I held a conversation and consultation for both this decision and this move was given the consent of all political party leaders who make up the new parliamentary majority. That's what I said. A reduced budget, and it was a discussion, compared to last year, Mr Sokolović said. That's not true. It has been increased by 45 million, and the Single Account separation has increased by 70 million. The fact that the manipulative things were about how far the execution was, I took charge, concluded the main book, and we saw how far the execution was. And what was to be done even from the 80 million that... I just didn't have time to investigate or follow because there was so much that it was because of the deep political crisis that we had to do business. The fact that Bevanda's desk contains the Law on Military and State Property is incorrect. He was on the Council of Ministers, a debate was held, co-ordinated with entity prime ministers, as it must be a single signed text that will be valid where the Council of Ministers and two entities will be. It's just to kill what's incorrectly said. A European path, full of mouth to all European times. The zeroth priority, in all conversations and stories, was also the condition of a basic zero-priority budget. Second priority, also zero, the Global fiscal framework. Maybe it bothers someone that he's been brought in single, unanimous for the first time in five years, but he's been brought in, so for the next three years. And I wouldn't repeat what it means to secure safe money for the state with an increase in external debt that is also being serviced, first it is being serviced and the rest. Credit rating, so we came up to the last step, the reason - not to adopt the budget; under one, non-serving of external debt and the situation that was produced last year when the budget was liquid, and the external debt was not dependent and there was absolutely no reason to do so. We passed on to the Council of Ministers a bill that was sent to parliamentary procedure, which will, for all time, remove what happened last year and that brought down our credit rating, because we were the only country in the world that had money and didn't service the external debt. There's a map of the road in Brussels. She's not served to us. It was a joint office of leaders, prime ministers and entity prime ministers. And that's our act. And it was perfectly normal to publish and tell what it was. Unique support has been given for deadlines and for actions that we need to achieve and it has been estimated to be realistic. The verdict of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci remained. It is only natural that it is the agreement of political leaders that 66 will find a solution and that is a zero priority for the entry into force of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement. After that, if we stick to these deadlines, if we do business, rather than substituting each other, I'm sure by the end of the year we'll have submitted a credible application. What was for me, in fact, I had only one dilemma to say, whether or not, but here, after Mr Ahmetović and Mr Lagumdžija's presentation, I have to say it for the public, because they were all at that meeting where the leader of the SDA said that reconstruction is equal to anarchy. I'm now convinced that the strike of fired soldiers and the administrative strike was a test for this anarchy. I ask the question of what happens if pensioners, entrepreneurs, graduates of state colleges who work as waiters come out on the street. I wanted to keep, in the end, the dignity of the Council of Ministers, in particular the ministers to whom this decision applies, the dignity of this honorable home, and so I dosed my opening and brief intervention and did not respond to pure untruth and manipulation. If it's for someone who's confused, insecure, or if I don't raise my voice to get out of Parliament, I won't change there, and I would recommend that you change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11101	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank all MPs, members of the Council of Ministers and the chairman of this discussion, I would say to the democratic one. I will not prejudge the way this decision is voted, so I will not thank the ministers for their work so far, we will do so when the vote is done. Now I'm taking a break by 4:00 to calm down and get back to work. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats, please let's get started. Please, can we start working on it? We're on the fourth item of the agenda: ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH Authorities, Proposers: MPs Milorad Živković, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović and Niko Lozančić (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11104	Mr. Chairman, therefore, after everything that was happening yesterday, your letter to schedule a session of the Commission, my letter that it did not meet the business deadline, letters from the Extended College to do so, was held today by the Commission. You've received a report from the Commission. Most of the votes were supported by the Commission's constitutional basis and the principles of this law. And that is, therefore, the Commission's report. I am now speaking as a representative, so as a man who had the opposite opinion of the Commission's opinion, I think that the proposings have exaggerated by liberalising the issue of conflict of interest in BiH. This law went too far in a few things. So, that's where the kinsman's category was abolished, and all the rest of them were just close relatives. Close relatives are mates, children, parents. In the past, relatives were also in the law, so they were all relatives in the right line, relatives in the lateral line to the third degree and relatives in the period to the second degree. It's all off. The conflict of interest in the case of close relatives has been lifted, which is one newspaper and I mean excessive liberalisation of the system. The issue has been lifted, the law provides for the abolition of conflicts of interest in the case of interested persons, so close relatives plus persons who are in an economic, political or other relationship with the elected official and the law in a completely different way to resolve the issue of sanctions. I don't think this law is in line with the recommendations BiH has from a group of GRECO countries, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to fight corruption. I will vote against this law today. But if you decide not to vote, and I think it would be best if the law were sent to the Venice Commission to give an opinion on this matter. So these are the reasons why I will vote against this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11105	Thank you. berize, is there any need to first explain as no Niko as a proposing a little law, since apparently I see that people are not referred to matter. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11106	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, well, this bill is the result of the work of the Interresor Working Group and the conclusion of this House that the scope of the amendments cannot go into the amendments and amendments of the law but rather to propose a new law. In this law that is before you today, members of the SDA, HDZ, SNSD's Interresor Working Group, and as representatives of both the BiH Parliamentary House and ministers in the Council of Ministers, participated in its work. And this is something that has been achieved by consensus within the Interresor Working Group, which means there have been different proposals, but there has been no consensus within the Interresor Working Group. We have defined ourselves, so here's the conclusion of this home, that by respecting what the Interresor Working Group has done, we offer a proposal for a new law that has a lot of solutions from the current law. I personally don't think this law is perfect, but especially I don't think the legal solutions in the existing law are perfect. I don't think so. The existing law, which should be put out of force if this law is adopted, did not respond to its purpose, although many knowers of these occasions agree that it is certainly one of the most rigid laws of this kind, if not in the region, and perhaps in Europe. 68 If you remember the Central Election Commission Report, which has also provided specific reports on the implementation of this law, you have seen the aspects of the Central Election Commission's activity, and here, not to be too sharp, it seems to me that the implementation of this law has served more as a means of some political calculation than what its primary goal is, and the basic objective of this law and of this law, which is in force and this here, should be to prevent the abuse of public function for private purposes. This law that is before you today no less, to say the least, prevents it and nothing else, to be understood, does not prevent that possibility. I don't think any such law is enough to prevent in itself the abuse of public functions for private purposes, but we also have a whole series of other laws, starting with criminal laws and at entity level and at BiH level, which may not be implemented in a satisfactory way, and for not implementing these laws are often used as an alibi by the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. Personally, I said the way we came to this result, I will support the normal proposal of this law, because I participated as a member of the Interresor Working Group in the proposal and as one of the MPs took over the role of the promoter. And here, I ask my fellow MPs to also support this law in the first reading, and as you could well notice, although there were conspiracies and different ones, this law is not referred by hasty procedure without the possibility of distinguished fellow MPs to intervene on it, to correct it, meaning. And I invite you all to support him in your first reading, to support the principles, and that all of you who think that might be further improved use this right in the course of the second phase of the amendment action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11107	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11108	Here, in the largest part of this argument, that is, the opening explanation, Mr. Lozančić agrees, with me, as if we were talking about the agenda and this session today, I have a bit of a problem that these two laws are just in today's session and in this way come here on the agenda this morning, etc., and that today's atmosphere after this point of the agenda is not the happiest moment in which we could discuss this law in a quality way. I fully agree with those who think that we have a really very, very rigid law and that it in some way eliminates, not in some way but in a very concrete way eliminates certain groups of people, i.e. certain interests, or certain structures, etc., which is not okay. However, on the other hand, when a man observes the situation and habits of our people and the manner of behavior, the environment in which we live, etc., I think we are not yet matured by a completely liberal law, that we must, although I do not belong to those who think that all sanctions can be arranged, but some kind of culture of politics and rules of some kind should be developed. We, for these reasons I've been saying, these speeds and today's ambience, will not support this law either, but I appreciate the work of the Interresor Group. And another reason why we cannot support it: we have in no way taken part in the creation, nor in the creation of this document, nor through the Commission, nor through the Interresor Group, and in some way we amendments cannot now correct what we might want to do, etc. So, in any case, to be clear, we will not support this law or this other one on the financing of political parties. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11109	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11110	Thank you, Chairman. A lot of what my predecessors said would fully support, and what Mr. Džaferović and Mr. Belkić said. If BiH were a legal state and the ministers were here when they misused and damaged the budget for 100, 200 marks to resign, as is done in European countries, I would stand by this law. However, I fear that these solutions would only lead to the tycunisation of politics, in order to legalise nepotism. And one more thing that, but I think that this is gonna fix the amendments and the SDS will be investing in the second round their amendments that will also depend on our support for this law. What is particularly controversial is a member of the 19th law which is pointless, unconstitutional and which in one unconstitutional way imposes a certain obligation on the National Assembly of the RS, which this Parliament cannot do. So the constitutionality of this law and the eradication of this member of the law, this Article 19, will also depend on our support for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11111	Thank you. Dear colleague Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11112	Thank you very much. Here, I will, unlike colleagues who have previously spoken, give a positive assessment of this law, simply support it, not because my colleague Lozančić was in this working group but simply because I think this is progress, and we in BiH normally like to deal with ourselves. And for one more reason, I'm going to tell a little truth that happened to me as a minister and it happened to one of our colleagues, and since he wasn't here then at the Council of Ministers, his cousin, I think, was on some board of directors of a local company. That day I signed a 72m-euro contract for elektroprivreda, when I came home to turn on the television, that was the first news, and this was if I had signed a 72m contract, it was in 27 minutes of the diary. And I think that this law is progress, and I think it needs to be reduced to one reality, and I don't think it's nepotism, on the contrary, that what you put through the parameters into one normal relationship and one normal function of family, or as you say professionally, relationships can come down safely to some relatives. I mean, it's so far away for me that I don't have to deal with it. Thank you very much. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11113	The word has the chairman of Milorad Živković's House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11114	Thank you. For the third time, I work in the Interresor Working Group and in amendments to three of these laws, and everyone who worked in the Interresor Working Group or who knew how to work in that group knows how to reach the legal project. There is a more difficult decision than here in Parliament to change anything at all. So far, when we talked about the Law of Conflict of Interest, the international community has mostly affected the vote of certain MPs and clubs. Luckily, that wasn't the case now. MPs were free to propose amendments, but were responsible enough to listen to the advice of the Venice Group which gave its recommendations, but also to legal projects already adopted at the level of the entities that were adopted. In our Interresor Working Group, we have assigned individual members to certain laws. Mr. Halid Genjac was in charge of the Law of Conflict of Interest. And most of the changes that are here in this law are his proposals. And he didn't agree on a few things. He did not agree that advisers should exclude themselves from this and remain a provision for the removal of the mandate. My compromise proposal to take office was to get someone, if they found out they were in conflict of interest, to come out of conflict of interest for 30 days. And if he is so irresponsible that he remains in conflict of interest after 30 days to take away his mandate, which my colleague has accepted, but has not voted in favour of the law, because they have not yet broken off from the laps of the international community, second and foreign opinion, and cannot think with their heads about people who praise BiH's European path, defending BiH. It's sad. Once you do something, then step on it, don't sign it, and you don't want to accept the hand of compromise. It's sad. And this law, to remind my colleagues, has been so changed that we even had to make the name of this law, or, to change that they did not change and supplement but only the law. This law has kicked out close relatives of the very same party from the SDA whose father-in-law didn't want to leave the board of directors, so we discussed his shift here and they suggested that it be thrown out so that the same man wouldn't come into conflict of interest again. We talked about advisers where there was an unfair situation where these people, after the term of office had ceased, were members of the College or of the Council of Ministers who had advisers and were paid according to decisions and under the law for another six months or a year, those advisers were left without pay on the day when their term of office had ceased and had no right to apply for this law for a year to apply anywhere to apply for a job in the state service. Was it the Law of Conflict of Interest? What it was, it was a violation of the human rights of the people who were employed, and after their term of office has gone a year, they must not apply for a competition anywhere. That's embarrassing. Taking a term of office was something that hung over my head only these MPs here. No one else could be deprived of the mandate when there was a conflict of interest including the Council of Ministers, including the Council of Ministers, but only the CEC had the right to confiscate MPs here, although some people did not even know they were in conflict of interest. Some people didn't know they were in a conflict of interest because someone out there put them on some board that they didn't even know it. This law gives the possibility that if anyone finds that there is a conflict of interest, except that they will receive financial sanctions, they will be given a reasonable time to come out of conflicts of interest. Well, aren't those European laws? 71 And unfortunately, counterpart Pandurević has come out, needs to look at Article 19 again, it is the same member literally copied from the old law, it is a member that I have been trying to change in the Interresor Working Group, but there is not enough votes to change that member and where I said the Federation has been parasiticly acting towards the BiH budget, because it does not want to pass, according to this law, its law in the Federation, but uses the money from the BiH budget for the procedures that take place in determining conflicts of interest. Isn't that the parasitic approach of the Federation regarding the Law of Conflict of Interest? And I wanted to change that, but there wasn't much. And what does that have to do with the violation of the Constitution, where entities are given the opportunity to pass their laws, and not to order them to comply... with their laws regarding this law that doesn't say anything. Therefore, do not twist the facts, read well what is written and we are open to debate all of the Interresor Working Group for any proposal that has come here. And don't say that this is the proposal that came for the SBB. So there was neither SBB nor this story until May when the Interresor group discussed this law, there was no story of the congregation's majority, nor of the overseas. This is best known by the proposer of this law on the Interresor Working Group, Mr. Halid Genjac. Thank you. Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11115	I guess I'll have to, considering my colleague Živković mentioned that the SDA didn't support it. The SDA has not yet defined its position against this law, and the fact that Dr. Genjac is a member of the Interresor Working Group does not mean that Mr. Genjac's position is the attitude and the SDA. Therefore, he is completely free to work in the Interresor Working Group, and we will say our position today, so when we vote. Therefore, all this would have been fine if you hadn't forced these two laws into the agenda today and had not been given up on a similar legislative solution in the parliamentary procedure. Thus, it leaves enough doubt that there is something that could potentially spoil the general environment even when it comes to this legal solution. And we're in the U.S.A. for reforming this law in the sense that we have a looser approach when it comes to conflict of interest, and that's why we're going to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11116	Thank you. Dr. Milorad Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11117	If Mr. Halid Genjac is not a representative of SDA politics, I apologize. And when I say that he personally expressed his views and worked in the Interresor Working Group as an individual and not as a representative of the SDA, but give it to the U.S.A. for once and say that you have people who represent your policy or have free shooters who do what they want. _________(?) 72 [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I have to try and get you to tell me what reality is to know that I'm treating it. And secondly, it seems to me that here was your side and your party's attempt to block the arrival of this bill into these benches. Not twice at the invitation of this House the Interresor Working Group and your SDA member Mr Halid Genjac wanted to call the Interresor Working Group. You wanted to ask this law with procedural questions by New Year's Eve. This wasn't even violence, since May this law has been in the process and you don't want to put it here to discuss it. So, gentlemen of the SDA, stop dealing with procedures, stop dealing with obstructions, start working as a parliamentary party in opposition, but constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11119	Thank you. Dear Representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović, a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11120	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, I am one of the legislators of this law, not because it is my law or two other fellow MPs, but because the Interresor Group has finished its mandate, which this Parliamentary Assembly has assigned. In fact, very few legal projects are coming to this parliament. This project was launched by concluding, after the report, which was unanimously adopted by this Parliament, the Central Election Commission, which monitors the implementation, i.e. the implementation of three laws in the set of electoral legislation, and decided to form an Interresor Working Group to complete this work of amendment and addition. The formal nature was when we in the parliamentary procedure referred the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on conflict of interest and was formally referred to in the procedure of the Law on the financing of political parties. Then we are told – yes, but this is not in line with the rules on document making because the changes exceed 50%. None of these changes and additions have changed, only they've been introduced into the new law. And we, for two months now, have practically the same material that comes in and out of Parliament, facing the procedures to which the commissions are being called here. I ask you, given... that the funds and great work of the 12th member, or 11th-member Interresor working group whose work, especially for this law, was followed by representatives of the Venice Commission who were, three members were present by the international community, and we did nothing contrary to the provisions and advice of the international community. And we shouldn't get into something like this, which is of general interest to all of us here, about these things we differ. There is no need to make politics about these provisions, this is about very concrete things that can be and can be applied to each and every one of us. Before this law entered into the procedure of amendments and additions, please make recommendations that the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's government institutions has been assessed as the most rigid law on the premises of this part of Europe, but that it has not contributed anything special to BiH as such. Thank you. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11121	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11122	I'm sorry to call again, but look, you're here informing us that Dr. Genjac has blocked the work of the Interresor Working Group. Then you need to inform that body that formed that task force so that Mr. Genjac can change. So I don't know what's going on in the task force, and I can't know until I hear about these things here. But we, since you are very often teaching democracy from various political parties, here we appreciate that we are a young political party, have we only been working for 22 years and are we still learning, but yet our representatives, our delegates have a much greater degree of freedom than all of you in other political parties that teach us democracy and we are for parliamentary democracy, not leadership. Therefore, we act fairly uniformly and take our stand, and you will see our position today when we vote on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11123	Replica, dear colleague Denis Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11124	So as not to remain in the record, as counterpart Mehmedović said, truth be told, in that first discussion, that something here was violent in the agenda, so nothing was violent. Point 4 is in accordance with the procedure, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure today, even more precisely if you are looking for, colleague Mehmedović, so in accordance with Article 34(2). And that nothing witnessed violence and the fact that even the Expansive College was unanimous without a single vote "against" accepted that this would be on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11125	Niko, is this a replica or a new discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11126	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11127	Oh, good, good. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I conclude by your statements that you are truly conducting. You see with us that we're being totally, we have every opinion and I definitely want to make something out of this point, that is, by this Law of Conflict of Interest, because I certainly think that it is necessary to make his change as soon as possible, I agree, but is that right now, it's not possible? However, I'm surprised that colleague Niko Lozančić is defending this law. I like that, just like a man who knows a very good securities market, I can't understand 1% of the stakes in a private company. Do you know 74 what that means, 1%? Nothing. What kind of capital is that? 20 marks. 2,000 marks are needed to register the company. 1% is 20 marks... I can be a shareholder, please. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No problem, however, in private capital, i.e. public capital up to 4 million, depends on whether it is d.o.o. or d.d., it's something else. But in private capital, look, I can't even be a shareholder in a company where my child is the founder, not to say if he works directly, indirectly through some companies. I agree if it's a conflict of interest, but that you can't have a firm, that you can't have a d.o.o. 2,000 marks, I disagree. Again, if the problem is to solve a conflict of interest for those who have fairies, buildings, towers, clinics, I don't know what, let's see what kind of interest that is and if that's really the key to the problem. But let's see these relations of who he's working with, but don't even let us in the political part of being just people with a hole in our pocket, let the businessmen go to Parliament. We'll know how to raise these problems we have. However, Mr. Niko, I would recommend that as far as this point 6 is concerned, we agree on it, find objectively, but also conflict of interest to try and solve this at other points and try this as soon as possible, and not at any cost within 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11130	I think this will be a quick explanation of what this is all about. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, please. And we like your opinion, and we expect amendments in that direction.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11131	I'm using this right now as a representative, what I used to defend is the Interresor Working Group's position and as a proposer on behalf of the Interresor Working Group of this solution. Now I'm going to tell you, dear fellow, within the Interresor Working Group, I've advocated, what you're saying, that it's not limited at all, means that ownership of anything is not declared a conflict of interest. However, we have so far had the fact that anyone who is a member of any public assembly, even if he was with 001 promil, was in conflict of interest, right. So, this is, I'll support the meaning of the amendment, you invest to delete this, I'll be the first to support it. That's what it's all about. I'll say it again, this bill is the fruit of compromise. And here, now on one example that you pulled, here, I told you that I agree with that, but others don't and it doesn't matter who did anymore. So here would be the most Augustant thing to say about what they stood for, I don't know either, those HDZ members, those SDPs, those SDAs, that's not it. So we have what we have. We've determined that we're going to a regular procedure, so right now, here you MPs would have the opportunity to say, to fix, to be, to have an even better law. 75 But here's what I should say in general about this law, about the principles of the law. Why do I think this law is better than the existing one? We do not have to accept this law, the existing law will remain in force. So we have the law, so you know, I mean, you're not going to do anything revolutionary if you take this down, we have the law. So we have a law in force so now we're going to talk a little bit about the existing law, not this proposal, to see what we lose and what we get. Your colleague, Šepić, found himself in a conflict of interest because his father-in-law is a member of the Management Board of the municipal utility company, that's funny, that's funny, but it's an existing law, the applicable law defines him as a conflict of interest. I just said that we had a report from the Central Election Commission, did you find one in that report and one in the case, and one in the case that the elected official was sanctioned, so all those who were elected officials, because he was setting up a job for one of the close relatives, one of the interested persons, one of the ropes and extended relatives. There are no examples of law enforcement. This law has served as an intrinsic reckoning, this current law serves. Because usually within the party people know, I didn't know that Šepić's father-in-law, I have no idea, the first time I've seen a man here when he became deputy minister. But it was someone from his party who knew and this law was used for anonymous applications to the Central Election Commission when someone wanted to enter the position of the registrator. Let's have it, it's facts. He did not prevent any of the only abuses, not a single regulated tender, not a single payment from any budget without any criteria, he did not prevent employment through connections and ties, he did not, nothing he did not prevent, this current law, not this present one. And those are the facts. And we say it's the most rigid law. Did you have an example somewhere, at least I didn't, I didn't follow. As far as I am concerned, two first articles are sufficient in this law – to prevent conflicts of interest, this law regulates the specific obligations of elected officials and public and executive officials in the institutions of government, the conduct of public office. There is a conflict of interest in situations where evasive officials and executive officials have a private interest that affects and may affect legality, openness, objectivity, etc. And this is the basis, this is the definition of society to say – we think it's illegal. And then there are other authorities, so there are laws on criminal proceedings, a criminal law that treats crimes of abuse of office, so whoever acts beyond these principles is, and he's a public official, he's in abuse for not being prosecuted. That's not it, that's not the Central Election Commission, and the Central Election Commission is implementing this law. And the Central Election Commission isn't FBI. How do you think the Central Election Commission will investigate all cases, possible cases of abuse of conflicts of interest? So it's not a substitute for all the other law enforcement organs. I don't want to comment on any of today's statements that everyone's broken. So, I think that over 90, the vast majority of people in this country, institutions are honest people, and there are those who are unfair in every system, because of them there are these institutions that need to do their part of the job. So I say again, this law is not perfect. There are solutions in it that, in my opinion, are unnecessary, but there are distinguished colleagues who have worked with me, who think at this point they still need these restrictions, which I think are still rigid, to stay. And here, to have such a step, I have supported these solutions, and I will support every amendment, as far as I'm concerned, which is in line with the principles that I advocate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11132	Thank you. 76 Dear Representative Milorad Živković, Chairman of the House, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11133	Dear colleague Zijad Jagodić, please read Article 6, and he is in accordance with Article 4. Shareholders are being talked about in the public and private companies' assemblies only for those who do business with bodies financed from the BiH budget. Please take a good look and you'll see that Article 6 is related to Article 4. On the other hand, please, this is already for the SDA, this proposal quoted and adopted unanimously on the Interresor Working Group is a proposal by Mr Halid Genjac. And this is a good suggestion, when you read it, you'll see it's a good suggestion. You can also be a 100% owner of a private company, but you can't make contracts with bodies financed from the BiH budget, it's a conflict of interest and it's a good proposal. Read it, you'll see he's right. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the fifth item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on the financing of political parties, legislators: MPs Niko Lozančić and Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović (first reading) Members of the bill delivered the proposal to parliamentary procedure 2. Seven. In 2012. The opinions of the Constitutional Legal Commission and the Commission in charge of finance and the budget have been given to you. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić as a proponent of this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11135	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, this is another law created the same way I did before, so I'm not going to repeat what I'm up there. All arguments apply and... to this law for the simple reason that the number of amendments is greater than is allowed for amendments to the law under the Unique Rules for the Making of Legal Rules. Here, in accordance with the conclusion of this House, we have accepted that we are the legislators of a new law in which the number of solutions under the current law is also significant, but also a significant number of amendments. This law, therefore, defines the forms and ways of eligible financing for political parties in BiH, defines how these funds are spent, defines how these funds are being controlled, which we have so far not, I must say, precisely in this law. And I think that, in any case, a better legal proposal is a better legal solution than the current Law on the financing of political parties. Just like this result of the compromise, it's possible that if each of us individually added some of our own solutions, that we might do it differently, but this is what was possible and what was agreed in the Interresor Working Group. 77 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11136	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11137	Thank you, Chairman. Well, in principle this law is acceptable to the SDS, but we have one member here who is very controversial to us, and since it was our party, and later others were, although it was illegal in law at the time, it is very often that certain activities outside of the party's collapse and those who disobeyed the political scene, which the RS, which BiH, were precisely using these education programmes, funding some parties etc. I don't think anyone should educate us on the side, we don't need them, we see how, what happened there in 2000 in Serbia and what was going on, here's what's going on in the east, these educations on the outside. I think we have enough through our budgets, alone enough resources to provide ourselves with, all parties, education. And in this way, right now, let's be clear, we know who's going to get these educational programs out here, they certainly won't get them either SDS or many other parties. You know who's supposed to get them, so we're gonna ask you to erase this attitude.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11138	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11139	I'm sorry to report, but I have participated in the work and preparation of this law and the reason why I didn't put my signature on this law because I felt that this is the jurisdiction they need to regulate entities, that this law should bear the name of the 'Proposed Law on the financing of political parties that have their mandate here in the BiH Parliament', because the Law on the financing of political parties has both the RS and the Federation of BiH and the Brcko District. And here, as in the previous law, where it spoke of the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH institutions, it would define that it was only the financing of political parties that are partying here in the BiH budget. On the other hand, I felt that the Office for Audit could control the business of political parties, that it should not be done by some audit office within the CEC and I proposed my law on the financing of political parties, in order to eventually come, as they said, to compromise solutions on certain items here. I want all those MPs who haven't read this bill, and they're saying that donations from abroad are possible, to read Article 8 on educational means. You know the NDI kicked the SNSD out of projects like that. We don't have a problem with that, we'll support the amendments that you give, but you realize that the Interresor Working Group can go through what has a compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11140	Thank you. 78 Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11141	I think, the chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, that the Interresor Working Group did not respond to the task she had ahead of her. There are several issues that have been trying to solve for several years, this law has not solved them. One of these questions is – to whom does money, club or political party belong? Is that a clear question here in this law? You didn't pay attention to that question. Mr. Živković, you know when we discussed this thing, that was trying to find a solution, so that's why the law didn't pass last time. So that's one thing. And the other thing, it's unacceptable to increase these funds, this is increased now: physical faces 10,000, legal faces 50,000. This was previously determined by the averages, whether or not 8 or 15 of those averages is a valid solution. It's too much of this, this can go where you don't need it, and we won't support this law for those reasons. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11142	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11143	We can talk about an increase in financial resources. So, I can't but I'll see how the vote was about it. I think everyone agreed to make it an increase. And as for your second remark, you're wrong. Article 7(6) says this will define a solution. That's our resources, the Administrative Commission that's in charge of resolving this issue, it's settled here in law that she solves. So that's a settled question. It's up to us if we're going to the Administrative Commission where they're sitting and yours that we want to solve this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11144	Whose is it?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11145	The Administrative Commission is our commission, this home committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11146	Thank you. Dear representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11147	Thank you very much. 79 Here, and I will engage for an explanation of why Article 5 has been amended, which has now become a member of the 6th, i.e. a limitation of the total amount of voluntary contributions. So far, we have had total contributions limited to 8 average salaries for natural persons and 15 average salaries for legal persons when it comes to donations. Looking at the situation in the environment, an Interresor Working Group member, Justice Minister Mr. Čolak showed us how it was resolved in neighbouring Croatia that respected norms and joined the EU. And there it is settled that... the limit for a voluntary contribution of a natural person in one calendar year is 90 thousand kuna, and for a legal person is a million kuna. By handling these figures, we have estimated that in our relations, and adopt it, there are 10,000 marks, or 50,000 marks for a legal person. So, we had some indicative orientations, we didn't commit to average wages like that, because the average salary changes from month to month, and that's not some fixed amount, and we decided on a solution like this. When it comes to demarcation, this is what Mr. Živković explained, it was such a proposal when it comes to disseminating the club's funds and the political party. However, this law bears the title of the Law on the financing of political parties, among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11148	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the sixth point, Ad. Six. Report on BiH's Attorney General's work for period 1. 1. 2011 - 31. 12. 2011 BiH Law Department material In accordance with Article 18. Law on BiH's Defence, BiH's Attorney General is 21. Six. 2012 submitted the Work Report. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion 4. Seven. In 2012. I'm opening a debate on this report. I welcome Mrs. Medina Vilić, who is here for this report. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11150	Chairman, I have a proposal on this point. First let me do a little background over the last report. In accordance with the provisions of Article 18. The Law on the Defence, the Advocate's Office submits reports every year, means a report on its work, the Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers. Last year, so for 2010, it happened that the predstavnički of Representatives had returned once and came the second time, then adopted the second time, and the Council of Ministers rejected the Law Department's report. 80 In order for that to not happen again, I propose that a conclusion be adopted which reads: 'A statement on the BiH Defence Report is postponed for a period of 1. 1. 2011 to 31. 12. In 2012 until the end of the plea by the Council of Ministers of BiH." So we'll be able to do so that we don't get a mistake and we don't do what we did for 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11151	Should we consider delaying the debate so that we can discuss it or just a statement?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11152	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11153	Okay. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11154	So we're not postponing the debate. Very briefly, of course, with the support and understanding of the importance of this institution, the BiH Party continues to insist, when it comes to state property, that it is not a political issue, that it is an essential legal issue and that a report by an institution such as the pravobranilaštvo cannot find a formulation to wait for a political agreement to register state property for the benefit of the state, etc. I welcome the pravobranilaštvo efforts that have worked with NATO, with the Ministry of Defence, prepared documentation, etc. in the meantime. I see the understanding that it's very important here to have one law, but the issue of state property has been resolved, it is known what it is and whose it is. We can only talk about a law that regulates the way it applies, etc. For reasons, therefore, by transferring one of the essential legal issues to a political level and awaiting a political agreement, we will not support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11155	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues, my colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think the pravobranilaštvo General has made the report the way it really is and what the situation is. The Constitutional Commission considered it and supported the report and proposed that it do so to the House. I, as an agent, also join the position of the Constitutional Legal Commission. We did it unanimously. All I ask is that you take care of the recommendations. We told the Advocate General at the Commission's meeting, especially when it comes to tabularly showing the inflow of cases, solved cases, the backlog of cases, because things are actually mixed in the completed cases in courts and in the actions taken by the pravobranilaštvo's office, so it can get the wrong impression until the text itself is read in detail. My Koleginica Vilić knows what we were talking about back then on the Constitutional Commission. And in particular, to take care of the recommendations that 81 are listed. I think there's something we can do if we read this report. For example, BiH should pay something to someone according to judicial rulings. Then institutions don't act in the so-called so-called. the time limit for the voluntary fulfilment of the obligation. It's called a Parisian deadline there. During that time, additional interest arises due to non-compliance or non-compliance within the prescribed deadline for the voluntary execution of the obligation, then the cost of the executive procedure, all of which later pays BiH. We can save ourselves these costs if we act on time by means of judicial and executive decisions of courts, bodies, administrations, etc. So, one, in my opinion, useful report and I think that today, of course, if we're willing, we can access the adoption of the Report. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11157	Thank you. The lawyer, the distinguished Mrs. Medina Vilić, came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11158	Dear Chairman, MPs, I would only briefly say about Mrs. Majkić's proposal. The proposal has no legal basis. There is no legal standoff to take down today's review, in general, regarding the report on the work of the First Defence. And that's what I'm saying for a reason that per article 18. The Law on the Defence, therefore our report, this report of the Advocate General shall also be delivered to the House of Representatives, or to the Parliamentary Assembly and to the Council of Ministers. So today's debate on this agenda has nothing to do with the debate at the Council of Ministers. It is not accurate information that last year the Council of Ministers rejected the report and did not adopt it. I, as a defense attorney, don't have that information. And again, I repeat that it doesn't matter at all, so as far as the Council of Ministers and their statements are concerned, I can say here that this should be directed to the Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers, and I can't influence when they and whether they will put the report on the agenda at all. That's it. And I think this proposal has other motives and other reasons.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11159	Wait a minute. If I knew what the lady was going to say, I'd ask her to come in writing first. You see, here in Parliament, we have the right to vote on the motions for the conclusion of the MPs. We did not once debate that a statement on something is being postponed and that more consultation is needed, that we need to see how the Council of Ministers will do so, so that it is in accordance with the law and in accordance with parliamentary practice. And we will come forward today when we vote on it, on the proposal for the conclusion of the distinguished colleague Dušanka Majkić. Now, here's a replica of your exposure. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11160	First, I fully support the conclusion of my distinguished colleague, Majkić. The other thing I'm curious about is this really the Attorney General's report or is it one of the attorneys' reports, or was the report adopted by the Attorney General's College? I'm interested in that information. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11161	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11162	I mean, it's really inadmissible for people from institutions to give us lectures on what we can, what we can't do, what kind of interests are behind. Madam Attorney, I really think that your behavior for the pay phone you went out for is unworthy. What's my motive? I said what my motive was. It is a very unpleasant situation when the Council of Ministers makes a negative decision on something previously confirmed by this home. And we don't need to play that kind of thing, no matter what the law says, it doesn't say that one or the other first, but we do know that most things should first be considered by the Council of Ministers, as executive authority, and only then come to the House of Representatives. I ask that in the future, if ever more happens to you, you treat us with more respect when you go out for this pay phone.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11163	Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11164	... Dušanki Majkić. So I realized, here you heard a little bit – we'll vote against this report for a reason, but I figured out the lawyer's release as an attempt to explain a certain thing. You, Mrs. Majkić, usually towards the people who come, and this is their Parliament, so this isn't purgatory, this isn't where people can't talk, come out for a pay phone, etc. This is the BiH citizens' Parliament, not just ours. So don't mind when one of the proposings has a need to explain something, so it doesn't agree with us, and it brings up some facts, etc. Give some freedom to the people who come to this Parliament to work with us.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11165	Thank you. Please let me try this agenda to bring it all to an end. I try to warn everyone the way he talks, but I don't know what people will say. It is not possible to tell MPs in Parliament what they are allowed, what they must not, and what is legal... Parliamentarians here, as they treat others with insight, I expect everyone else to address these MPs here, and I, as chairman, must provide it, address it with respect. Personal animosities, other interests, please outside this room to provide. Dear colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11166	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to, I think there's a legal question here, as the Attorney General said, that the report is being delivered to the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly. Does it say anything else? 83
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11167	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11168	Well, that's a different story, then. Okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Debate and adoption.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11169	Is there any need for you to come out yet? There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11170	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11171	You need to tell me if it's the Attorney General's report or the College. Here you go. Please go to the pay phone and I ask you to try to answer the questions addressed to the D.A. and to you who are currently in office of the BiH Ombudsman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11172	I apologize, first of all, if someone has interpreted that there is my own personal negative attitude towards a person, or an MP from this House of Representatives. With all due respect, I just want to point out that this is happening to me again. Last year it was... A report from the D.A. or members of the D.A.'s College? We could discuss this today just like we talked about today one three or four hours after the decision to replace ministers. I don't want to say anything else here, but just to say that it's not accurate information that the Council of Ministers has a negative view of last year's adoption. It's not accurate information. And what am I supposed to say now, what?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11173	You don't need to, we're going to check on the Council of Ministers whether it was your report, whether it was adopted or not, and by doing that, I think, we're democratically doing it... Right? Okay, thank you. We're finishing this... Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11174	Just a sentence. Before the session started, I checked with the Council of Ministers for 2010. The D.A.'s report hasn't been adopted, for... it hasn't even been considered yet, it's not even on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11175	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11176	Please don't throw it away. I've now given you a chance to tell your esteemed colleague to replicate. 84 I hereby conclude the debate. And I, as chairman, ask you to conduct a further discussion towards the conclusion of today's agenda. Point 7. Ad. Seven. A statement on MP Dušanka Majkić's initiative from the 29th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, held on 7. Six. 2012 Dušanka Majkić sent the initiative to the 29th session of the House, held on 7. Six. You have received the opinion of the Commission in charge of external affairs. I am opening a debate on the initiative and I am warning the MPs that we are now talking about whether or not we will accept the initiative. If we accept it, we're looking for certain materials and we're discussing the initiative. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11178	I thank you, Chairman, especially in this area where what is really the point is said. Today we are talking about whether the House of Representatives will accept that this initiative is one day in the House of Representatives. This means the day two documents are provided, which is an analysis of the situation and the proposal for measures to be implemented in the MIP and the State Analysis and the proposal for measures to be implemented in the diplomatic and consular network. I want to remind you, surely and what you yourself know, that a large number of examples of how chaotic the DKP network is, how damaged BiH's reputation is, how unsatisfactory the behaviour of diplomats is in one part of the embassy at the border of the incident. Also, I would like to remind you that BiH, as you know, has no foreign policy strategy or foreign affairs law, so each BiH's present appearance in the world has been at the edge of improvisation. There is a document called the General Directions and Foreign Policy Priorities, which was adopted in 2003, and it was logical that he has so far suffered the necessary changes, but here, as you know, this Parliamentary Assembly, therefore not in this assembly, but for the third time, means the third meeting in a row is trying to answer the question of what needs to be done in order to streamline the DKP network and what measures should be improved to put BiH diplomacy at a satisfactory level. We've never had an answer before. Here, I am in the third term, trying and searching for this answer, whether BiH, in terms of its size, population and gross social product, has an appropriate diplomatic and consular network, whether this diplomatic network is pre-named and what we do in the field of establishing economic diplomacy, and we see the state of the country, and in itself it says that BiH does nothing on that plan. What is the situation in the DKPs, including especially human fill-up and national structure? Do we know what our number of careers are, how many unspeakable diplomats, how they got into those positions? Is the diplomatic and consular network adapted to European integration processes, can it bear that weight and that capacity? And what are the priorities of BiH's foreign policy in the end? None of those questions, we don't have answers. 85 So both homes were sitting several times, in a few convocations, and they failed to get answers, mostly because we didn't have the right materials to follow this very demanding topic. I also spoke with a diplomat from Slovenia who told me that in the same space where Slovenia has three diplomatic and consular representations of BiH is 11. So, here in the Arab world and somewhat wider, Slovenia has three DKPs in Iran, Turkey and Israel, and BiH in Iran, Jordan, Qatar, Kuwait, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Turkey and Israel. So he would say one of the ambassadors who was in Pakistan, no birds come to Pakistan, let alone representatives of BiH, for which he would have something to do. In Central and South America, BiH does not have any embassies. And there's an interesting example that some family in Mexico asked for a visa for BiH and then they referred it to the first embassy next, which is in America. They say it's harder to get an embassy to one Mexican for America than any other end of the world. It's just an impossible mission. That speaks in favor of the state of the DKP network, I'm sure you all know a lot more. As for the state of affairs at the foreign ministry, the most recent audit report said. You heard he was negative. You've heard how many things are related to this ministry's work so far. I don't need to say anything, I won't say anything new, but I expect you to support this in order to get quality materials based on which the Parliamentary Assembly will be able to impose what it does in that area. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11179	Thank you. I don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] From the bench? ...come on, here you go. Saša Magazinović, this was a quick change. Short.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11181	I will. This SDP Club initiative is not controversial. We just insist on taking care of the competences and that this material, which is already, according to our information, in the Presidency, completes the procedure in this regard and that there is no problem afterwards that we are not talking about the same material here, with the participation of the Foreign Minister, members of the Bureau if they respond, etc. So, we're gonna back her up, it's no big deal.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11182	Thank you. And now I'm closing the debate. We're going to the eighth point: 86 Ad. 8. A statement on the initiative of MP Nermine Ćemalović from the 29th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH, held on 7. Six. 2012 The Parliament addressed the initiative at the 29th session of the House, held on 7. Six years old. The relevant Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion 4. Seven years old. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović, as a promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11184	I thank and welcome all those present, since I'm reporting for the first time. I think the time has come for the citizens of BiH to get the text of the national anthem. And I hope that there will be a mood among parliamentarians to finally deliver a complete anthem to our citizens, because BiH is one of the few countries, I think it is only Španija that has no words of the anthem. Let me go back a little bit. In 2001, this home, in fact, was passed by both homes by the Law on the BiH National Anthem, but only by music, without text. In 2007, the procedure entered, the Council of Ministers made a decision and both at home adopted to go to the State Anthem Act procedure, or text. In 2009, however, it did not pass in parliament. I hope that it is indeed time to finally get that text, that this text will be universally acceptable, generally acceptable content, which all the citizens of our country of BiH will feel as their own, which will be aesthetically processed and politically appropriate. Here, I ask my colleagues to accept this initiative and give our anthem a chance, or our text, because we still have a long period ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11185	And the Španac are the champions of Europe. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11186	Well, I have no intention of discouraging, nor in any way underestimating our colleague Nermina's efforts, but I would like to warn the following. So all of this is exactly what she was talking about, except she didn't say that we spent 50,000 marks when we came to a harmonised text at Commission level, at the Council of Ministers, etc. And that thing didn't go through in Parliament. So we have to resolve the previous issue – do the RS lawmakers even think that BiH should have an anthem with the text? Don't bother, don't spend money. If we're going to get back into the process and spend 50,000 marks, I think it's completely irrational. So all this has been done about what you are talking about and agreed on at the level of the Commission and the Council of Ministers, came to Parliament and fell, 50,000 marks. It is not just the members of the Commission. It was paid by people, authors, competitions, awarded to this Šestić, as I recall, etc. So, we need to clear up the previous issue – do the people of the RS, MPs, think BiH should have an anthem with 87 texts or not? BiH has an anthem, no one can take it away from her. If people let it have text, come on, if you don't give what I can, what can I do, not spend both money and time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11187	Now you'll hear about it. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11188	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleague Beriz Belkić took part in what I wanted to say. In fact, the most irrational question that precedes us to act as politically rational beings, not as irrational in terms of what we should be doing in the next period. I said that the day before yesterday on the Constitutional Commission that I believe there is no political environment to discuss the text of the anthem in BiH. That BiH is not the only country that doesn't have a texting part of the anthem, but that's not why we're fighting, we're fighting and we're spending 200 or 300,000 KM on commissions and external experts' work, and again, in the end, not adopting the text. So, our opinion, the SNSD Parliament Club will not support this initiative. We highly respect the position of distinguished colleague Nermina Ćemalović, but it is unnecessary to create commissions. I have an identical view of this as about the Commission for Donors and other issues. It is necessary to create a political environment in which we will approach rationally and to define that we can make a decision that will result in something, and not to deceive each other, we want a text like this, we will not, we will not, and ultimately bring down the bill on the text of the BiH anthem. Thank you very much. For the time being, we have this part that has previously been accepted and adopted in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, nothing bothers us, it is important that we respect it, we have one of the features, so it is a flag, a coat of arms and an anthem without text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11189	Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11190	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I've been waiting all day for this, and I'm not interested in cameras at all, I love what's not there, because then I'm not inspired when they're around, they ask me a lot of questions. Well, as one of the members of the selection committee of the hymn, I would like this convocation, the next one, the next one, in 2040 -- to sing that text here, when I'm not even alive. And I know now this only text, and when this instrument part is played, sometimes I push my colleague Kalabić to tell him to prepare himself now we'll sit down because this is the last ceiling. So, not to make cartoons out of all that and not play games without just telling you what kind of things we're into that are indecisive. Very short, for new colleagues. We call a contest, we get 336 texts. Of 336 texts 90% unusable, plagiarize. From Aleksa Šantić's song "Stay Here", by Kotromanić when they were born, from the murder of this Ferdinand and Gavril Princip, so I don't know what was there anymore. Well, then, since there were experts, ethnouziologists, songwriters, respected writers, poets, and we politicians were a little on the side because we're making a decision. So then we come up with some compromise text of two authors, so we do a text of an anthem, we can't make an amendment, not a single word, it has to be rhythmically consistent because a little bit better than 88 I know the music since I sang those songs, of course and now I'm singing, so you're going to get a free CD of mine and a sevedale girl coming out fast. So it's impossible to make a text and change the text by amendment, that's what I had to ask for. You have to know exactly how much in one word of slogans, how rhythmic, how much she can, as she says, bear, to sing either 'a' or 'aa', to musically do it to you. Laugh at you because you have nothing to do with it, you have nothing to do with it. But here, I know the happiness of music enough, but let me give you this, you know you're not getting into these options that you're not going to solve. Well, since I don't want to make a comedy here to entertain you, and you, you find this all funny, but here's an example of the latest, BiH has no anthem text, no Španija. And I'm looking at the finals, and the Talijan have knocked out how many of them they're wearing because they're singing anthem, they've got an anthem, the Španac have no lyrics, and they're just listening to the instrumentation, which my grandmother would say they're shaking their heads, but 4-0 won. When there's a will for something, we don't need a text. Let's all go together and solve our problems. But to put it short, I really don't want this to go to my music show anymore, so please, we've got a lot of other things to do and who's up to the song. I invite him to record with me this existing text that wasn't adopted and see what it would look like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11191	Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here, in the end, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11192	Mr. Chairman, I am truly surprised by the inconclusion of the discussion and this rhetoric of one thing that may be very important to citizens, if individuals are not. When we talk about some kind of political setting for how many years we're going to wait, if we're going to wait another 20 years, when it's going to be, what a political moment and an ambience is enough and good, I think we all deserve it, so let's ask the citizens if they're for it. Well, it's nice to play BiH somewhere, Mr. Jovičić, so our people sing a song. They'll sing it the way they suit us. Let's give her a chance. As you say, Mr. Jovičić, every law should be given a chance to live. Let's give it a chance, let's make a decision for the Council of Ministers to call this contest, or to choose a commission, to call a competition, and then we'll talk about the text of the anthem when we get there. This isn't a two-month process, it'll take a year, possible, but let's do it. I don't know which should be a better political environment. As far as I can see, we're all citizens of BiH and there's no reason to run from something like the text of a state anthem. I no matter what you think, I think that when we take a break and talk a little bit, we'll accept that it goes and take that first step, to make a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11193	Replica, dear colleague Boško Tomić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally think that the intentions of colleague Nermina are very good, etc. And I accept her intentions in that sense, but we should look at reality. We don't have a chance at this point to get a text that we can agree on. I can't go to the RS, I know 89 how long it took to create an anthem text, and at this point I don't think it's that important at all, I'm just afraid that through this debate that we're going to have, through the activities that we're going to have, we're going to have some disagreements again. So don't start that, and we already have that anthem, we have that coat of arms, we have the flag, we have the mark, let's just keep what we have in some way without going to some things that you know in the beginning it's hard to get along. So when you start making, if there's not all the ends of that text, that's a terrible problem. So where are the national minorities there? So it was when an anthem was made at RS level, so there were terrible problems, etc. For these reasons, I think we have a lot of things that are more pressing and I suggest that a colleague give up on this... not to open the process, not to cause any problems, maybe one day it will just come out of the people, so let it remain for some other generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11195	Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11196	Replica, so it's not a replica to a esteemed colleague named Nermina, but to be objective really. There is no possibility that someone could write a text that would match Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat and I gave that statement and national minorities so it was easier to remember national minorities,... through this verdict, Sjedić-Finci-Finci, it is the easiest thing to remember. So there's no possibility. And in this text, to get to know these new colleagues, put 'Bosna' in one strof, here 'Bosna' be first, in the second 'Herzegovina', I advocated, in the third 'Krajina', and in three days, I don't know whether, everyone, not everyone, journalists accuse me of creating three entities through Bosnia, Herzegovina and Krajina. How I bring down BiH immediately. Well, people, as you move on, it's impossible to write. And if anyone's interested, I have all 336 texts, and I'm going to bring you that and who can stand to read it first and come to me with one proposal, I'm going to be pushing for that proposal to be adopted. But people, that's impossible, believe me. It's impossible to write an anthem that would suit us all, that's impossible. There's no text. So, I'm told, frankly, they threatened to kill Sokoc because I didn't throw in a strof of "get off the Rašo," listen, "get off the Rašo." My people, it's not my song I sing, I wouldn't sing a song like that either.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11197	It's good.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11198	I'm just saying, Mr. Chairman, that this can't be solved, it's not possible to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11199	Everyone makes their own strofu, of three strofs, the Refrene District of Brcko. Therefore, it is easy to do so. Let's move on. So, no more reports. I'm closing the debate. 90 We move to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH, materials of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics The Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics is 18. 6. submit a proposal for a decision. 4. 7. you have received an amended Decision with an explanation for which it is originally delivered... amended... BiH Assembly in accordance with Article 3. Decisions establishing the Council of National Minorities of BiH are appointed by its decision by members of the Council, and on a proposal from the Joint Commission. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11201	I'm a little out of line today, but I'll take it very briefly. So, from this proposal, it is not clear whether this working group, which worked for the Commission, prepared this proposal for the Commission, I am talking about the first text of the Decision that we received, so the first text of the Decision, did it consult on candidates with associations of national minorities and NGOs, which is the obligation? That's one thing. Secondly, we will not support this decision. Secondly, as far as I can remember, we never had any information here about the work of that Council that we know what's going on, etc. We also didn't have any of their recommendations, opinions, etc., which is kind of their right to go here to Parliament. And the last thing I'm saying is, one number of people, why don't you say it, like it's been subscribed, like there's no other members of those national minorities. So we're not going to support a proposal like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11202	Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11203	Mr. Chairman, as a member of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, I discussed these proposals for national minorities, and I had an observation, or more suggestions, about the national minority of Roma, because I noticed here that we have a Rom in our biography, the first Master of Social Sciences in BiH, a professor of physical education who really has good references, and my proposal was to make him a proposal in front of the national minority of Roma. However, I have seen through there the proposals of the association, indeed this Mr. Jusić has more suggestions, but there are some too many of these Roma associations. And mostly, the Commission that has been elected in fact, this working group, they have opted for Jusić. After that, we received from Jusić, I think that other members of the Joint Commission on Human Rights have received full material... from Mr Mujić who has presented more new assets and references he is working and my proposal that when voting for this proposal on national minorities that we can vote on everyone, and especially for Rom, because the proposal remains, as 91 members of the Commission, that in front of the Roma population there should be a Mr. Master of Social Sciences Mehmed Mujić. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11204	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11205	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here are some questions already. And one part of this story to me, to be honest, is not clear, especially of course I have a problem coming from Prnjavor, known as a small Europe, where there are a huge number of national minorities and who are now expressing their dissatisfaction and I don't know how this came about. I have a significant number of remarks, there it is, you well know that there is a high concentration of national minorities and that I should give some answers, but I'm not at this point, in a way, I don't have complete information. It is not clear to me, we have often had here when we choose in Parliament a list and Parliament is committed. I have a feeling here that we need to support it this way as it's complete. So far, we've been able to choose from the list, we don't choose from the list here, we choose the list here, we have some commission that I don't know about, to be honest. Here are some questions that have already been asked how they came to the proposal, they have letters from the association that have come and that have slowed this procedure and slow down this list. Part of the memo came to me, part of it got to the chairman. And I think that, as I see it, a good part of the MPs is not addressed to this issue, or they have no information. I think I'm proposing that the conclusion be postponed and debated and pleaded until the next session, yes indeed, because I'm also interested in who these respectable associations are, how this one went, that at least, here, if anything, I can answer people's questions. So I'm not going to give the details here, because it's interesting how, when I know the number of representatives of national minorities in certain municipalities, how they got into a situation, I won't doubt the proposal at all, but I have to have an answer to the question. I don't see it from this. So, I don't see from this how transparent this process is and I totally agree with Mr. Belkić, let me see the names when I see 150 different proposals and the same name in all of them, and I think I'm going to make a proposal for a conclusion to postpone this, while I in a small Europe in Prnjavor do not consult with 27 national minorities, with 7 Roma associations and others. We'll find a way out of this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11206	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, President of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 92 I would like to say that the Commission for Human Rights unanimously, underlining unanimously, means, including a member of the SNSD Commission, adopted this proposal. It's true there's a lot of complaints, here they are. They came home to me at the door, you won't believe it, so the man I've never seen in my life, they say from Trebinj, that he came to my address, and all the reason for those 600 marks they receive from those members of the Commission who don't do anything, they meet twice a year. And for the sake of those 600 marks, I couldn't answer for one more time without talking about the ambassadors coming to me, I got the poor ones killed, I examined the ambassadors all about the infrastructure, the state of his country, he finally told me, you know, I came to pass that one and that one. Unfortunately, being a national minority has become, but that embassy, Mr. President, had only one proposal from that national minority, so we couldn't be corrupt, don't worry. So, Mr. Kalabić, I understand that, it's usually about those who have complained, about older people who may be without receiving, living off their pension, so it's nice to put another 600 marks in their pocket. You can return, you can postpone, I'm against it, you'll get the same proposal again.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11208	Replica, dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11209	Mrs. Pandurević would have replied if I didn't know what she felt unanimously, I was against it when we voted for this. (?) Because those who were in favour, they were unanimous. Mr. Lijanović, the two of us were 'against', because I went with a proposal to be Mr. Mujić in front of the Roma population, and this task force of the three, where Mrs. Pandurević, Mr. Genjac, and don't tell me, I don't know who the third, from HDZ the third, they put in the proposal Jusić. But what Mr. Kalabić says, there are millions of associations here. Whether that association counts five members, 50 or 500, we don't know that. But the references of individuals, I think if it's of interest, I'm talking about the Roma population now, that there goes a young man who's a master than someone with a high school. Probably all these references he's given us, see, through Parliament, what he's been doing. And then I would also like to see the reports of gentlemen who have already been representatives of both the Roma and Albanian and all the other populations, to see what they have done through this Council of National Minorities. This was the president, Mr. Jusić, respecting man, I don't know either of them, nor have I met them, but let's see what they did in the last term and what they deserved or just lobbyed for. And I have information that it's been a good lobbying. (?) Work report. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11212	Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11213	Well, here's what I'm saying in public, those who were for them were unanimous, and those who were against them were. The SNSD MP did not attend the session. But it doesn't matter. Please, I have a feeling, I'm really serious right now, that the people who took part, so here I am, after all, that they didn't get it, because this is a little complicated issue to be honest, because we're making a decision, with a lot of respect. If they were making it, the alliance and the others, I would just support it, Bianko, it's not a problem, no matter how they make the decision. But we're making a decision on the choice of these people. Now, I hear for the first time now, but when I tell Roma associations it's 600 marks, they'll all come before Parliament from Prnjavor here. This one will not be chosen. Well, be careful, that's a sensitive question. How, when there's always those 600 marks, Mr. Finci is found? It's always, I don't know. Let's put that down to zero and see what the choice is then. So let's see, in some ways this is a serious question because we have to decide, and at least what I expect, the least we expect, how we had in all the other situations, to get a list and to choose from the list. So, the least I expect. I understand all these people running for office and I understand what a colleague of Aleksandra said was very difficult because there was a procedure here whose transparency we now find difficult to judge at this point. Of course, it's right for those people to suggest something like that. But Parliament, it is the House of Representatives who chooses and has always had the opportunity to choose between several candidates, always, in all others. So we had problems with the Commission when it compares whether it is, but we have always reserved the right that the sovereign right of MPs is here to choose it. So I think we should postpone this, so I repeat, I don't have all the information. For the next session, the SNSD Club will prepare all the necessary information and find a way out of this solution until the remarks have started and they start coming home like this. I didn't understand the fact that it's a little more complicated, but come on, I'm not saying that we're finally gonna find an extra solution, but it's not a rush, I don't know, that tonight if we make a mistake and we make... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah. I'm staying here and I'm going to suggest this conclusion, and the only thing of course I can suggest to everyone is that we're all a little bit interested and let's see by next session what the best way out of this is to find a solution. So, we're not against the solution, we've voted this law in this assembly, these people need to be represented, but at the same time I feel like we've started some institutions in BiH that are supposed to give a positive signal that we've started to caricate a little bit, that we've started 94 a little bit of them to pretend, here's the ugly thing to hear. If the only interest of those 600 marks is not improving the interests of national minorities, then we have a problem, at least consider it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11215	Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11216	Pre-election campaign, which is done when someone's running for chief, then we're in trouble.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11217	Well, that's almost all of us, more or less.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11218	Well, we're not candidates for chief. It's not you, it's not me. So, on the basis of Decision, Article 3. Decisions establishing the Council of National Minorities, members of the Council, shall be referred to the proposal of the Joint Committee on Human Rights. It's called the Parliamentary Custodial, right? Furthermore, as far as this election is concerned, I, Mr. Kalabić, really don't see the point of getting anything back, because I don't see how, or what, how we can change. The consultations were carried out, it was done, here is Mrs Ćemalović, saying she disagreed with Rom choice. In addition, we adopted the conclusion at the last session, Mr Kalabić, in order to address this problem of coming to the door because of those 600 marks, the Commission proposed to the House of Representatives the conclusion to regulate those receipts. I don't know if it's the Administrative Commission that regulates the abolition and that members of the National Minority Council are just compensated for the costs of their arrival, the daily fees for the day they work, so as long as they work, they'll get as much. In addition, I would like to stress that the mandate of the National Minority Council is as long as Parliament's mandate. Two years ago, we were supposed to do this job. So we're two years late. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, we're being kicked out of the Council of Europe. I'm really asking this job to be done. So it's pointless, you'll get the same list again. I mean, we can go round and round, if that means an excuse for your fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11220	Eh, let's take it in a row. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić has another replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11221	No microphone 95 is enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11222	You're entitled to another replica. You had a discussion and two replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11223	Well, I'm obliged, although I've been listening to Mrs. Pandurević with these very, very, very smart statements and knowledge about everything and everything, so Mrs. Pandurević, these statements about everything and everything, that many people come to your house, I don't know what their motives are. I don't know. But it's one of your statements that it's a pre-election campaign. Mrs. Pandurević, you put on this list a woman from the SDS who is a candidate of the SDS in the next election. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, there you go, but keep the thief out of your mind, so you don't get it. So the SDS candidate in the national minority order is on the list. Mrs. Pandurević put her on asking me not to ask, to vote for it. And the Ukrainian Association, which 98% controls that population in Prnjavor, is against it. And that's not funny at all, Mrs. Pandurević. That's very sad. I'm talking about the very bad job you've done and what you've done and I've been trying to find out from that exit, not the way you're talking about. It is just a matter of work that the national minorities in BiH will decide on the next local elections, so important. Of course they matter, but not so much that now this is the job that we have to finish. And you can't wrongly do a job justifying it with an excuse. You've already started to justify a very ugly job by pre-election campaign, so now this sloppy job, which you've done in the Commission, has started to justify again, no matter what, with the election campaign, ma'am. It's all right, I'm trying to fix that situation and check it out, if those people support that woman, let it go. But if they write letters that they don't support it, then I have a problem. I don't care if I'm being honest. Here, I'll write a banner for support to get out of this. But if we're asked to choose, we should give an answer. I fortunately come from the middle where there are many national minorities, and unfortunately no one has asked me anything. I don't know if there's a Bratunac, does he have a Bratunac and a national minority? There's nobody here, you're all of them. So, I have a lot of people out there that I have very good relations with and I care... to achieve... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11226	Thank you. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11227	It's an incorrect quote. I am a member of this committee, but unfortunately because of the disease, I was not present. Therefore, it cannot be said that this list was adopted unanimously and with the support of SNSD MPs. I wasn't there. And there's no remote, no phone vote, so they couldn't consult me either. So I wasn't there. I apologize to my colleague and the head of klub Kalabić for just saying, SNSD MP. The SNSD MP, I, Slavko Jovičić, was not present at the session and could not even support this list. That is why the incorrect allegation of the distinguished colleague Pandurević – the SNSD MP gave support. I wasn't there, I didn't give it up. Dot.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11228	Thank you. Is there any need for the SDS to request a break to clear this up?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11229	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11230	Here, you have the right to another replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11231	The Secretary of the Commission has checked, Mr. Jovičić, at this point. You'll get a record, you've been to that session. That's number one. Number two, I'm glad, Mr. Kalabić, that we've come to this point, is not about any SDS woman, but it's about the man who was in the last meeting of the Council of National Minorities, who is an activist of your municipal board, who has not passed. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11232	Okay. Dear colleague Ismeta Dervoz, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11233	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, it is difficult for me to discuss in BiH the need for amendments to the Constitution in order to stop discrimination against national 97 minorities, in this way, or in this way I must discuss in this Parliamentary Assembly at this point in the agenda and say a few words which, unfortunately for me, are justified. To establish an association, any one in BiH, it is enough to agree with your aunt and first neighbour, you need three people. What is completely unclear here is how many people stand behind those associations that delegate members to the Council of National Minorities. Is there a criterion that can, under what conditions, delegate members of the National Minority Council? If this had become a business, it's perfectly clear. Last year, the Council of National Minorities held only four meetings. They received monthly fees of more than 600 KM. And if I can back that up for you, I'll back it up. One of the proposed members on this list for the National Minority Council is the president of the Association established in 2010 who signed his own candidacy for this National Minority Council, so I kindly ask that these voices heard about the need for analysis, delay and definitively more serious observation of this problem, as it is evident that the problems of national minorities and the protection of their rights can be serious in BiH and thus also in this Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11234	Thank you. Please give these suggestions in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11235	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11236	Business or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11237	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11238	You've completed your two discussions.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11239	I didn't, I didn't discuss it. You see, when you've been in this House for a long time then you learn that it's wise to guard unlike these, like this, some who think they've drunk all the minds of this world. You're a lady, Mrs. Pandurević, and I can't tell you... _________(?) 98 [[no microphone turned on]] Well, of course, at the beginning of my term, I was running like this. I'm kidding, I'm saying what I don't need and then I'm running away, what I'm going to do, I think that's how I did it back then, and now. So, sir, since it is obvious that Mrs Pandurević, I now see, has misused the work of the Commission, Mr Franjo Rover, which she is talking about, is a member of the SDS and PDP coalition in Prnjavor with a signed coalition agreement and a member of the assembly majority that replaced our president, which is quite legal. So, I'm talking about correcting a notorious lie and a lie and that's his right, that's his right. Next time I'll bring her that coalition agreement, but that has nothing to do with the problem of national minorities. The man votes as he votes, and he is when it comes to these things, even though it has nothing to do with him, we are talking about the Ukrajinac here, the man is Talijan. Franjo Rover agrees when it comes to the Italijan. Well, I, you know, she got involved in something I know, and I live with it. I know the Čeh Republic has more in Prnjavor than in all of BiH. So that's something where you have to understand all these people, we know and we have to listen... and that they're wrong and that they are. So, I'm not saying anything tonight, but I don't want it to be this way, what Mrs. Pandurević did, that puts this work out of practice. And now I see what it is, now it's completely clear to me, here's proof that she got into this party some kind of turmoil and missed everything because she didn't get there and it's not her job. It's her job to see what the Alliance of National Minorities is proposing, not who's in Prnjavor with who and who's against who. I mean, that's why they were all false and there's no need for that. I think we should take this conclusion and bring this job to an end, and everyone thinks how we're gonna get out of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-05-0.u11241	Thank you. Is there anyone else who needs to report to this agenda point? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Go ahead, we've still got time. I mean, this is an important question. Since no one's answering, I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly for the implementation of the appointment procedure of directors and deputy directors of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina
