ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1242	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, international institutions, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 15th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 15 envoys, meaning five from the Bosniak people, five from the Croatian people, five from the Serb people. For the 15th session, we propose the next amended 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 14th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Answers to envoys' questions and envoys' questions; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the BiH institutions under a hasty procedure; 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (second reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1012, of 16. 2. 2012; 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions (first reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1212, of 26. 3. 2012; 6. Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act (first reading), Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-12, of 11. 1. 2012; 7. Report from the Joint Commission on the adoption of the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of BiH institutions; 8. Annual report by the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, material of the Central Bank of BiH, number 01-50-19-47612, of 4. 4. 2012; 9. Financial Report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, material of the Central Bank of BiH, number 02-50-19-47512, of 4. 4. 2012; 10. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity in 2011, material of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity, No 01,02-50-19-49112, of 6. 4. 2012; 2 11. Annual Report on Discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 on Human Rights Institution material for BiH, issue 01,02-12-34512, of 12. 3. 2012; 12. Annual report on the results of the activities of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution of BiH, the material of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, No 02-12-512, of 13. 4. 2012; 13. Report on the functioning of the systematic collective exercise of copyright and related rights in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2005 - In 2010, the material of the BiH Council of Ministers, number 01,02-50-19-8912, since 19. 1. 2012; 14. Report on the work of the Management Board of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for 2011, material of the BiH Export and Credit Agency, No 01,02-50-19-46812, of 4. 4. In the year 2012; in the United States, the United States of America, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Report on the work of the Postage Agency for BiH and the Financial Report 2011, material of the Postage Transport Agency BiH, No 01,02-50-19-46712, of 4. 4. 2012; 16. Information on the establishment, function and structure of the decentralised management system (DIS) through the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA), material of the BiH Council of Ministers, No 01,02-50-19-23911, of 14. 12. 2011; 17. A report on the initiative of envoy Nermine Kapetanović from the 11th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, held on 1. 2. In 2012, which reads “Information on bh. Immigrantism – state and necessary measures to be prepared by the Council of Ministers of BiH”; 18. An extension of the mandate to the Commission for the verification of the legality of the process of destruction of ammunition and mine-explosive assets, weapons and military equipment; 19. Giving consent to ratification of Bosnia and Herzegovina's 2008 Completion of the Financial Agreement with the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border programme – Serbia under the IPA component of cross-border co-operation, BiH presidency material, No 01,02-05-2-43312, of 28. 3. 2012; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the financing agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the Bosnia and Herzegovina cross-border programme – Serbia under the IPA component of cross-border cooperation for 2010, the BiH presidency material, No 01.02-05-2-43412, of 28. 3. 2012; 21. Giving consent to the ratification of the IPA financing agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border programme – Montenegro under the 2010 IPA component of cross-border cooperation, BiH Presidency material, No 01.02-05-2-43512, of 28. 3. 2012; 22. Giving consent to ratification of the 2008 IPA Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border programme – Montenegro under the IPA component of cross-border co-operation, BiH Presidency material, No 01,02-05-2-4212, of 28. 3. 2012; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Supplement of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the cross-border programme Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA component of cross-border 3 cooperation for 2008, material of the BiH Presidency, No 01.02-05-2-43112, of 28. 3. 2012; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the cross-border programme Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA component of cross-border cooperation for 2010, material of the BiH Presidency, No 01.02-05-2-43012, of 28. 3. 2012 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the 2008 Completion of the Financial Agreement for the Horizontal Programme on Nuclear Safety and radiation protection under the 2008 Instrument, concluded between the Commission of the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina 28. Seven. 2009, BiH Presidency material, issue 01.02-05-2-45312, of 30. 3. 2012; 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Supplement of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the financing and participation programme of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the ERDF's transnational European territorial cooperation programmes "Southeast Europe" and "Meditirane" under the IPA component of cross-border cooperation for 2008, BiH Presidency material, No 01.02-05-2-4512, of 30. 3. 2012; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Treaty (A City Traffic Project between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, BiH Presidency material, No 01.02-50-2-50412, of 12. 4. 2012; 28. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Veterinary Cooperation, material of the BiH Presidency, No 01,02-50-2-51012, of 13. 4. 2012; 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Slovak Republic on the international and road transport of passengers and cargo, material of the BiH Presidency, No 01,02-50-2-51112, of 13. 4. 2012; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Financial Treaty for the pilot programme for the preservation and restoration of cultural heritage in the Western Balkans conflict areas for 2008 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission, the BiH Presidency's material, No 01,02-05-2-53512, of 19. 4. 2012; 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Amendment to the 15th Agreement 12. 2011 on the Loan and Project Agreement of 23 February 2010 for 71,000,000,00 euros between KfW, Frankfurt in Maine (KfW), and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH (loan) and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, and the Public Companies of the Croatian Community Elektroprivred Herceg-Bosnia, Mostar Share Company (EPHZHB) (project Implementation Agency) – Vjetropark Mesihovina, material of the BiH Presidency, No 01,02-05-2-57612, of 30. 4. 2012 Thirty-two. The readmission agreement between the BiH Council of Ministers and the Government of the Republic of Turkey, the Bureau's material. And that concludes the agenda with the 32nd point. This is a harmonised agenda for the House of Peoples Colleges. Is anyone picking up? Are there any changes or additions to the offered agenda? Mr. Hasan Bećirović. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Presidency, colleagues and fellow delegates, I propose to include, as part of the 3rd agenda, the Review and adoption of the Amendment to the Constitution of BiH, Member of the IX. point 2 in order to create constitutional assumptions for the examination of the proposed point 3. ...and meet the request of the Council of Ministers to consider this law. I would like to say briefly that this amendment has passed the procedure long ago in the House of Representatives, that in the first reading it has passed the procedure in the House of Peoples and that there is only one other reading left to create assumptions for the reduction of salaries of elected and appointed officials and constitutionally provided. In my opinion, it is necessary to adopt this amendment if we want to open a process of debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries. And I think it would be good if the debate and adoption of that amendment were just ahead of this agenda. In addition, I would just like to remind you that we have the Presidency's initiative to do this, as well as a call from the House of Representatives to plead in a second reading on this amendment. I'd like to ask that item of the agenda to be placed in today's agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1245	Thank you, colleague Bećirović. Well, if I may add, today at the College, among other things, we discussed this issue and agreed to settle this issue by the next session, so that it would be on the agenda of the session behind the adoption of the budget in BiH. However, if you insist on putting us to the vote, we can also approach it that way. But in order to avoid a problem, here might be better, or I suggest we accept the position of the College to leave it for the next session of the College, a debate on this subject. But if you stay in your position?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1246	I apologize, Mr. Chairman. Then, in that case, I would insist on the House's conclusion that it really be at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1247	Then we can do this. The simplest thing for me is to put your initiative on the stand, I'm just afraid because of the ambience here so we don't get the wrong message, and after that initiative we'll definitely sit next time and discuss it. So I hope what we're saying now officially in the microphone is enough, so we don't have to talk about the conclusion that the College has arranged it because here are all three members of the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1248	5 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1249	My suggestion, and of course we can do it differently. I'm afraid of the wrong conclusions after the vote, and I don't think there's room for the wrong conclusions and to avoid the wrong conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1250	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1251	Okay. Thank you very much. Mr. Halid Genjac came forward to discuss it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1252	Thank you, Chairman. I'm reporting for the supplemental proposal that's been put on the agenda and we're having a discussion about it, actually. Therefore, all assumptions for the reduction of salaries and MPs and appointed and elected officials exist without the adoption of this amendment. So there is a state of budget and a fiscal framework that is the way it is and there are assumptions. However, even though this amendment has passed all the necessary procedures in Parliament, even if we have a commission opinion in the House of Peoples, I think it would be good to put this proposal forward to supplement the agenda. And we from the U.S.A. will support this proposal to adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1253	Thank you, fellow Genjac. A fellow member of Simić answered for the debate. Here you go, colleague Simić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Get it technical.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I've been studying a member of the IX. 2. The BiH Constitution so I have obtained some comments, even highly recognised international experts on constitutional law, who believe this provision is not an obstacle to wage cuts when it comes to this situation. In fact, all of us who have been practicing law already in the first year have learned in the Introduction that there are various forms of interpretation of rights. One of them is the goal. The aim of this provision, which was adopted in Dayton, was to protect Parliament's independence in a certain way, not to be subjected to various pressures, including those of financial nature, the reduction of wages. However, given the fact that this is not about such a situation that it is about one measure that extends to all BiH institutions, that the whole society is faced with the issue of crisis and that one of the elements of the response to this cycle are austerity measures, I believe there is no obstacle to any change and reduction of wages and without putting this constitutional provision out of force. Of course I support the initiative to delete this provision of the Constitution, but I do not think it should be a prerequisite for dealing with issues raised through the draft and draft budget and that we should focus on how to implement those conclusions. It would particularly bother me if I were to return as a delegate to a law that lives, under the circumstances, for eight years, especially since after that proposal, which has passed the procedure of certain political groups, MPs, parties, has already put forward a proposal... to adopt an amendment that will delete this provision. Therefore, I believe that we can resolve the issue of salary with the existing provision, and that we should go into the procedure of amending the Constitution and that this procedure should be restarted because, indeed, let us not allow ourselves to enter the book of Ginnis that we have adopted an amendment in which it only says 'clears the provision', for eight years. Let's do it the way the Constitution requires it to change. That's why we have a chance, here, now I'm going to tell you right now this decision by Sejdić and Finc. Along with that decision, we can solve this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1256	Thank you, fellow Simić. Since there are no more applications for discussion, then we still have one more time to suggest on my part that we do not enter into a plea under this amendment and supplement the agenda, if that is okay with the Proposer. If not, then we'll go with procedure, of course business. It seems to me that we at the College, which we had just before, have taken a very clear view that we want to make it very clear, on behalf of this house, that here is not the goal of preventing wage cuts, but quite the opposite, and even these beliefs that we just heard from fellow Simić were one of the interpretations that there is no obstacle to the constitutional to reduce these salaries, and so far have been... reduced. And that is why we have concluded that we are going in the phase of changing the Constitution according to this proposal through here next session and the College we make quality... and let's go. However, if you insist, I have nothing left to do but put it on the agenda. But here, we have two more discussions, Mr. Košarac, and then Mr. Bećirović. Mr. Košarac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1257	The Honorable Chairman, working presidency, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I do not think we need to open this kind of debate at the House of Nations, given the fact that on the agenda of the College of the House of Nations this agenda was on the agenda and that the Kolegijum has reached a certain kind of conclusion, in order to find this item of the agenda before the delegates of the House of Nations. I don't think we're going to contribute in a positive way to address this issue in the best way possible, under the alleged signs of social sensitivity. I am taking the opportunity, as head of the Club of Serbian Delegates in the House of Peoples of BiH, to present to the public the view that we are for wage reduction and that we fully want to express social and social responsibility and sensitivity with most BiH citizens and that is not disputed. The question here is whether someone wants to do more or less to politicise this issue and whether someone has been trying to obtain a certain benefit from such politicisation relations in BiH citizens for a long time. I believe that the College of the House of Peoples will understand all the messages that come from the BiH presidency, that they will understand the messages and conclusions that come from the Parliamentary House of BiH, that they will also understand that this law has been in the BiH Parliament for eight years, that is to say, to amend and supplement the Constitution, and I think that in the end we should find the best possible way to define this issue as suggested in the next session. And what I would finally like to say is that I think it is not good for the BiH House to put the agenda on the agenda of the BiH Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1258	Thanks, Košarac. A colleague, Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, apparently, this little debate that's been politicizing a completely unnecessary thing. I, my colleague, am not overly socially sensitive. I'm socially sensitive and socially responsible. For this reason, as well as the political option that I belong to, it is quite, but I am also a legalist, it is only natural if we want to enter this process that we have to create legal assumptions about it. I fully respect fellow Simić's opinion, but allow me to attach myself to your sentence, the law is clearly as certain legal norms are interpreted differently. We need to get a metric interpretation of that. The budget debate I am not absolutely attached to this, but the Presidency's initiative exists. We didn't put her on the agenda. They accepted it or rejected it. This is our relationship with the BiH presidency. And I can appreciate, here's what I'm saying, what Mr. Chairman said we're actually doing at the next session. I'm not going to insist on voting, but it's very indicative of what has been discussed so briefly today. I would ask you to provide in our work constitutionality and legality for every move we make. And on the political dimension of the difference in the treatment of elected and appointed officials and employees, I, of course, have my own opinion and will never agree to any of the users of the same budget being discriminated against. That's the second question, that's something that, therefore, I, Mr. Chairman, given the fact that I pulled myself out of this, I accept that there is no vote on the initiative but I insist that it be at the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1260	Thank you, colleague Bećirović. I think we're going the right way. My kolegica Krišto, here you go. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1261	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Co-chairing, colleagues and fellow envoys, respected ministers of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests, I welcome you all. I think that right now, at this point, I have actually appeared at the moment until my colleague Bećirović had finished his debate in some way, but here, given the situation that we do not have at this moment a constitution that has democratic legitimacy, which means that it has not been adopted in the ordinary procedure, and given the definition of the Constitution that it is the highest political and legal act, I think it is really, without anyone being offended, unsertained this kind of question to initiate and put it as a statement on the agenda of the sitting itself, before we get the necessary consent, and we know how much it is necessary to amend the Constitution and by the rules of procedure that they provide. I will take another note here because my colleagues have said that it is in the procedure of the Amendment to the Constitution of BiH. It is in the technical sense of amandman I., forgetting that the Constitution of BiH has already been adopted by Amendment I, and it refers to the Brcko District. Therefore, let us not ignore business procedures or constitutional procedures. And here, thank you very much for understanding, if there's anything I can do for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1262	Thank you, colleague Krišto. I hope we've created a pretty good environment for this problem to be resolved very soon and that we all vote for it. And that is why I insisted on this proposal, but I must now and equally ask Mr Genjac, since he has given support to this initiative, so we can agree that we do not have a proposal to amend and supplement the agenda. Thank you very much. Since the agenda, if there are no amendments and amendments, does not vote, the agenda has been adopted, in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much again, colleagues. Moving to point one. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't see that we have any applicants or interested in the debate. We're closing the debate. We're voting on the 14th session. Please initiate the voting procedure. Thank you very much. 9 Attendance 15. "For" 15, "against" and "sustained" gone. From Federation 10, all 'for'; from RS five, all 'for'. There's a general majority and an entity majority. I agree that the minutes of the 14th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. We're going to item two of the agenda: ad. 2. Answers to Envoys' Questions and Envoys' Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1265	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the rotating, distinguished representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, my first question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers: 'From 1996, negotiations have been under way to regulate the property relations between BiH and Croatia. The agreement on the regulation of property relations between these two countries was on several occasions before the signing itself, so that it would literally be blocked at the last minute. Most often because of the disagreement between the Republika Srpska government because it did not include the views of the Serb side that Croatia does not agree with. The absence of this agreement points out as a reason why there is still no very significant return to Bosnia and Herzegovina's assets in Croatia and is not respected in this segment and does not apply Annex G) of the Agreement on Sucession issues signed in Vienna in 2001 and ratified in the Bosnian-Herzegovina Parliament the same year. This agreement obliges the States to protect private property and acquired rights of citizens and legal persons of the former SFRY without discrimination, or independent of nationality, citizenship or residence in their territories. The application of Annex G is, from a legal point of view, unconditional. July '91. In the year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopts a regulation prohibiting the availability, sale, replacement, transfer of rights and use of real estate in their territory, owned or controlled by the BiH institutions. Although the interstate agreement, which Croatia ratified, is legally stronger and older than the domestic legal act, Croatia has obstructed aneks g) of the agreement, calling for its own regulation. Objects that are subject to return, the value of the claim, and the character of the property are changed, the property becomes unusable, almost disappears and the rights from it become difficult and irreparable. The example, due to the unresolved property relations between BiH and Croatia, has lost more than 250 million marks in Trebišnica so far. Dispute of property rights to Šipad on undeniable property in Luci Sibenik, non-recognition of the right to hotel complexes in Podgorica, Slano, Zaostrog, Baška Voda, Dubrovnik, part of Luke Ploče, very expensive business premises of the Mining-metallic combination of Zenica, Mine Ljubi, Children's hospital in Cavtat and so on. Is it quite shocking that the list of properties owned by BiH in Croatia ends at number 7, although the actual number of these properties is expressed by thousands and the value is measured by tens of billions of marks. This information was contained in an official letter from the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury for the implementation of the ex-SFRJ succession and the management of BiH institutions' assets, sent 15. 8. 2011, then Minister Vrankić.' My second question: 'When will the Council of Ministers of BiH submit a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the implementation of the conclusions of the 62nd session of the Parliamentary House of BiH held on 14.10.192009 and on the implementation of measures and activities to address the problems of BiH citizens who have been employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia and in the period since '91. '95. the years were fired from work, which will include activities taken by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees?' In my explanation, I'd like to say that at the 7th session, it was held on 7th. 12. In 2011, the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, young people, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, as the committee responsible, discussed the parliamentary initiative of the chairman of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Mrs Pandurević, and this initiative reads: "The initiative for inclusion in the agenda... The Council of Ministers' report on the implementation of measures and activities to address the problems of BiH citizens who have been employed in Croatia since '91. '95. "In line with the debate at the session, the Joint Commission unanimously supported the Parliament's initiative by the distinguished colleagues to include the said item in the agenda of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly House. The Joint Commission held a roundtable yesterday on the topic How to reach a solution to the problem of BiH citizens who have been employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia since '91. '95. And they were fired from work. Given the importance of this topic, and the decade-long problems of BiH citizens who have lost their rights in the Republic of Croatia, who can only be resolved at the level of the states of the Republic of Croatia and BiH, and that we have not received the requested report since December 2011, please an urgent written response from the Council of Ministers to the questions asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1266	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. The next one was applied for by a colleague, Košarac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1267	I am taking the opportunity to ask the foreign ministry, or the foreign minister of BiH, and the question is: "What activities and actions have the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs taken to fully implement, or implement, the Act on the Protection of Secret Information of BiH?" I note that following the inspection of the competent authority at the BiH Ministry of Security and the Joint Commission's surveillance visit to the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, the security sector's competent authority has found that the Foreign Ministry does not fully implement the Act on the Protection of Secret Information of BiH. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1268	Thank you, fellow Košarac player. The next one checked in with a colleague, Bradarić. Here you go, colleague Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1269	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, good afternoon, everyone. I have two short questions. First question: 'I am asked to be provided with a list of all persons employed in BiH institutions who have obtained the right to compensation for a separate life, their place of residence, as well as the headquarters of the institution on behalf of which it has obtained the right to compensation for a separate life. There is a great abuse of this right on the scene so that after receiving this data there will certainly be certain comments." And another question: 'In terms of compliance of legislation with AKI/akquis communautaire/the remaining adoption of many EU laws. I am aware that steps have been taken to improve the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, however, no amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the House of People and the House of Representatives have been adopted, which would be intended to lead the mechanism for the adoption of EU legislation by an urgent procedure. Will that happen soon, I ask the Joint College of the two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH?" Of course, both answers in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1270	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. The next one was applied for by counterpart Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1271	I would ask the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of BiH: 'When will the conclusion of the House of Peoples be realized and when will information be provided to the House of Peoples about the effects of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges in these institutions?' I remind you, then, that's the conclusion. We got, I know there came a sheet and a half, a page and a half of paper, which isn't really work information, which shows the D.A. and the Court are afraid to write anything about foreign prosecutors and judges. And if they're afraid, maybe it's not bad for them to tell us so that 12 of us ask the OHR to run an analysis. But someone has to do an analysis to see if this whole project had any justification, what effects it had and what consequences it had for the development of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1272	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. We don't have any more interest in the envoy's questions. Thank you very much. That concludes the second item of the agenda. Moving to the 3rd point of the agenda: Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the BiH institutions following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples You have received a request from the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the BiH institutions following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The House of Representatives is held at the 27th session, held on 10th. On the 5th of this year, he rejected a request for a review of the draft law by a hasty procedure and accepted that the proposal for a law be considered by a shortened procedure. The House of Representatives also adopted four conclusions. I'm opening a debate. Is there any interest in this agenda point? As far as I can tell, there are no interested. First we vote, so the procedure is like this, first we vote on an emergency procedure, and then we move on. So, we are voting on the procedure of whether or not we are going to consider the draft law by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Let's start the voting process. Thank you. Attendance 15. "In" two, "against" 13, "restricted" no one. From the Federation of BiH one 'for', 'against' nine; from RS one 'for', four 'against'. We don't have the general majority. I agree that the request for an examination of the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Salary Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions has not been adopted in a hasty procedure. Given that the Council of Ministers' request for consideration of the Amendments and Supplements Act on Salaries and Receipts in BiH institutions has not been adopted after a hasty procedure, we should now first declare ourselves on the application for a review of the Law under the shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 121. Rules of Procedure to the House of Peoples. Please, we are voting on the proposal for a short procedure, in accordance with Article 121. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Let's start the voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 15. 'For 15, no one 'against', no one's'sustained'. From Federation 10, all 'for'; from RS five, all 'for'. There's a general and entity majority. 13 I konstatirati that this request for consideration of the amendment and supplementation of the Law on Salary Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions was adopted following a shortened procedure. Thank you very much. So we exhausted the third item of the agenda. Moving to point four, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1275	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1276	Thank you very much. I now give my word to the legislator of this law, the representative of the Council of Ministers, if necessary. There's no one here. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. I don't see he has any interest in the debate. No one checked in. We're closing the debate. We're voting on the bill. Please initiate procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 15. "For" 15, "against" and "sustained" means no. From Federation of BiH 10, all 'for', from RS five, all 'for'. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I find that the Act amending the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection has been passed. Moving to point 5. Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH As this is the first reading, the first debate is on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of the Peoples of the 14th Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives is held at the 26th session, held on 19th. This year, in the first and second readings, adopted the Law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions. I give my word to the proposer of this law. There's no one from the Council of Ministers of Need? Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on point 5. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, and I don't see any interest in the application. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Let's run the voting procedure. Thank you very much. At present 15, all 'for', 'against' is gone,'sustained' is gone. From Federation of BiH 10, all 'for'; from RS five, all 'for'. The general and entity majority exist. I agree that the draft law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions was adopted in the first reading. Since this is a proposal for a small degree of complexity law, I suggest that we hold a debate on the Bill's proposal and in the second reading, in accordance with Article 100(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? As far as I can tell, no. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the examination of the Bill's proposal and in the second reading, in accordance with Article 100(5) of the Treaty. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 15. "For" 14, "against" nobody, "sustained" one. From Federation of BiH 10, all 'for'; from RS four 'for', one'maintained'. We have the general majority, we have the entity majority. I konstatirati that this request for consideration is in accordance with Article 100(5) of the Law on Amendments to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions of second reading. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, adopted. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Is there any need for any? No one's reported. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on a proposal for a law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions in a second reading. Please initiate procedure. Thank you. Attendance 15, all for. From Federation of BiH 10, all 'for'; from RS five, all 'for'. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I find that the Law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions is in accordance with Article 10(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples, adopted. Moving to the 6th point of the agenda: 15 Ad. Six. Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1279	There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1280	There isn't. Thank you very much, colleague Bećirović. I give my word to the legislator of this law, the representative of the Council of Ministers, if necessary. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. There isn't. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. The interest, as far as I can tell, is gone. I... I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please initiate procedure. Thank you very much. Of the present 15, 'for' 14, 'against' no one,'sustained' one. From Federation of BiH 10, all 'for'; from RS four 'for', one'maintained'. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. The proposed customs tariff law was adopted in the first reading. We're moving to item 7 of today's agenda: Ad. Seven. Report by the Joint Commission on the adoption of the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1283	Just like in the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1284	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. There are no reports. There's no interest in the application. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the Report of the Joint Commission on the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH on reaching agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 15, all for. From Federation of BiH 10, all 'for'; from RS five, all 'for'. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I agree that the Joint Commission's report on both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes on reaching agreement on the same text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions has been adopted. We move on to item 8 of today's agenda: Ad. 8. Annual report by the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011 This is Central Bank material. You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. The commission accepted the report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The House of Representatives is held at the 27th session, held on 10th. Five this year, adopted the report. I give the word to the Reporter. Is there any need in front of the Central Bank? 17 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1287	I thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, here's a report when you look at it, and how it's structured and how it's done, you see that it's one responsible and serious institution, and I won't question it, but I'm going to give support to the report, but some of the elements and grades in the report certainly deserve, here's my judgment, one comment. And if we can come from these comments to some stage of recommendation, and the report may lack a certain kind of recommendation that the Central Bank, simply because of its size of business, would give to Parliament and the Council of Ministers, and I think it is one of the suggestions that can go towards the Central Bank. But you see, we had a debate yesterday between both the Homes and the Council of Ministers on the overall situation in the country, on financial developments, some of these indicators here, which both the MPs respected and the MPs yesterday, and I personally, now see in the Report being confirmed. Not to confirm, but some of them, of these tendencies are absolutely worsen, so I'm just going to name one. BiH's external trade deficit in 2011 is 7.3 billion KM, worth as much as 28% of GDP. Compared to the previous one, in 2010, the deficit increased close to billions of KM, i.e. 782 million or 12%. I believe this information is alarming. The second thing I want to say... and which is very important is Chapter 8. The financial sector, which speaks of the institutional framework of the banking sector, is said to have a dominant share of about 84% in the BiH financial sector, while all other segments of the financial market are only 16%. This applies to microcredit organisations, to company leases, to investment funds, to insurance companies. And if you take that within such a financial sector structure that the license had 29 commercial banks in BiH, of which only one is state-owned, we come up with data that the 10 largest banks in BiH represent over 70 and some percentages. The top five control 56% and domestic banks have only 10% of the financial markets in BiH. Why am I commenting on this? There is no rating here, and I think that it should be, how and functioning the Standing Committee on Financial Stability, whose leading coordination role should be played by the Central Bank, which, together with banking agencies, should make one real analysis of the consequences of this situation and, in my view, propose new institutions and financial instruments to stop these negative economic trends, and here I mean credit guarantee funds, savings, curbing the black economy and everything else. And here, I expect these reports, which are truly thorough, serious and alarming, to produce a certain kind of reaction to the Council of Ministers, and to entity governments, and to competent financial institutions, to stop these negative trends. And if we don't have institutions that can do quality work, then that as a responsible country we introduce and work on that plan. 18 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1288	Thank you, Comrade Raguž. The next one was registered by a colleague Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1289	Thank you, Chairman. And I'm going to share Mr. Raguž's thinking that the material is extremely informative and I really think it is, because one who is even interested in the economic situation of BiH here can practically find any possible information. However, I think the lack of attention has been given, in my opinion, to two things that are extremely negative. One of these is an increase in duty. If another 2006 pillar had been placed in the Central Bank Report, it would have been seen that on this side 44, where external debt is shown, that in the last six years a double would have doubled the practical amount of the foreign debt of the government. All that money went into consumption, nothing into investment. And given that over the next two years, and I know from one and another entity, it plans further, that at this moment a billion are waiting for ratification, right now, that means that we have actually entered into a spiral debt phase and that the double of external debt is going to happen in a shorter and shorter period. And very clearly that's what the authorities essentially said. Authorities say if we don't achieve a reprogramme with the IMF, we're gone. Basically, the authorities said they were incompetent. And I think that this can have long-term very, very, very negative consequences and that there's still time to react and start taking a more serious policy, not politics from today to tomorrow. And the second, although you can, I say, speak more, and I will not burden you nor time, look only at what Mr. Šarović warned yesterday in answers to questions – the direct foreign investment. A dramatic, dramatic decline and a very clear view, regardless of the economic crisis, that we are a country under some kind of economic isolation compared to all other countries in the region, left aside because the participation of foreign investments of 1.5%, 1.4%, is a statistical error. Had, didn't have, more or less the same, no consequences. There's so little foreign investment here. I really think that these are two things that the authorities should in any way shake well and see what to do with so much borrowing, less employees and less foreign investment. I really think that these are things that we should try to have a serious conversation about once and see what, because we just keep borrowing, borrowing, borrowing, we're really going to get into a situation that as Greece, we won't be able to pay those debts we're taking. Thank you. Otherwise I support the report, I think it's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1290	Thank you, colleague Ivanić. The next one checked in with his colleague Simić. Here you go, colleague Simić. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1291	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will not repeat what Mr Raguž and Mr Ivanic said. Indeed, this account, along with its comprehensiveness, still contains one flaw. We would also like to get a hint from the position of such a professional institution... of the proposals and measures that the authorities should implement in the coming period to reduce these negative effects, to warn them and to prevent future effects. So I and I have a proposal for a conclusion that I have not yet been able to formulate, but I will formulate it very quickly, and it would be: 'The Council of Ministers of BiH commits itself in the context of the Annual Report of the Central Bank to make a proposal, a move, a programme of measures, which will be alerted by the Central Bank in the Report.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1292	Thank you, fellow Simić. There are no more reports for the hearing. And as far as I can tell, there's no interest. kolega Simić, I will ask you to write that as soon as possible. I'm closing the debate. We're opening procedure. We're voting on the adoption of the report, so here, please initiate the voting procedure. Thank you. From present 15, 15 'for' (Federation BiH 10, all 'for'; RS five, all 'for'). The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I find that the Annual Report of the Central Bank of BiH for 2011 was adopted. And now I ask you to wait one second for us to technically prepare this, a proposal for the conclusion of fellow Simić. Here, I'll do it again. It means, 'The Council of Ministers of BiH commits itself in the context of the Central Bank's Annual Report to make a proposal for a programme of measures to warn the events of the Report.' I hope I read it correctly. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here's what we're going to do. We're going to adjust the reports. Since the proposal for a conclusion is relatively short and simple, I hope you all understood it as such. I now suggest we vote on this conclusion. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 15, all for. From Federation of BiH 10, all 'for'; from RS five, all 'for'. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I find that the proposal is a conclusion (not to read it again), as we have just read, fellow Simić has been adopted. 20 We move to the point of the 9th agenda: Ad. Nine. Financial Report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, Central Bank of BiH material
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1297	21 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1298	Thank you very much, colleague. I give my word to the Reporter if there's any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of the hearing. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the adoption of that report. Let's run the voting procedure, please. Thank you very much. Attendance 14. "In" 14. From Federation of BiH nine, all 'for'; from RS five, all 'for'. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity for the past year has been adopted. We move on to the 11th of today's agenda: Ad. 11. Annual Report on Discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 on Human Rights Institution material for BiH, of 12. 3. 2012
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My discussion will be on the trail of that discussion that was held on the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics, in which I am the first deputy chairman. I can say freely that for years I have been closely following the work of the Ombudsman institutions and I think that with the capacities and budgets they have been doing the right thing, with one truth that we are all aware, that they have not been particularly happy with the fact that, apparently, they have been brought into the marriage community by the entity representatives of the then entity offices of the Ombudsman. And if we look back a few years in advance at the reports, especially from the Federation, I dare say the most about the Federation, I must say that in partnership with what colleagues in the Ombudsman's Office for Human Rights of the Federation did, it was not good what they did. Their reports were insufficient and biased. They were not regularly received at the House of Representatives of the Federation Parliament and were badly done in partnership with this report, which... was offered by the representatives of the Ombudsman Office this time. So these aren't even comparable parameters and stuff. I think this report is very correct. Although in the Report your recommendations are included in the text content, I think it would be better and more understandable and acceptable and I think it was in fact a fundamental objection to those who did not vote on the Human Rights Committee for the Report. It would've been good if you'd done them eventually, for those who may be less careful readers, although I'm sure you've given your recommendations in the text section. What concerns me is the fact that you really don't respect your recommendations, primarily from the roof of the state and then to the entity ministries. I see the great culprit at the Ministry of Civil Affairs, because when we talked about the aspects of a bad report on the state of human rights of older people, the alarming fact was that another working body was formed, or another expert team for the making of social policy for the elderly. I also know very well with certainty that the UNFP, the United Nations Organization for Population and Development, singles out huge money for the problems of third-age persons and in BiH, and I am deeply saddened by the fact that, I dare say, the follow-up of a slow hodogram in the activities of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, so with their human resources and existing capacities, they have so far been unable to produce such a report, i.e. to respect your recommendations and to respect all the items and recommendations that the Ombudsman Office has been referring to the Ministry of Civil Affairs for years. And I don't think that's right and that a clear recommendation should go from this home to the Ministry of Civil Affairs. As far as the Labour Rights section is concerned, I know that your assets are very large in that area, you can see in your data that it is, and I think you were too modest when you wrote your report and that you didn't really write what you really did... work for the field of work, labour law. And perhaps, in some future text, that text, therefore related to labour-legislative legislation, should be improved. The alarming fact is that the media interest, the print media, is very, very low for what you're doing. In collaboration with electronic media, I think that electronic media is still better monitored. And as for print media, it is particularly concerned that they do not publish facts and developments related to child rights segments, given that children's rights are greatly violated in BiH and I think 23 should find ways to establish better communication with print media, again related to children's rights and then to labour law. I know very well that you have made the most efforts to improve the rights of persons with disabilities in BiH, given that BiH has signed a Convention that obliges BiH to equalise the rights of persons with disabilities on the basis of equal disability, while still military disabled people are those who receive much more compensation than the civilian people with disabilities, and that we have strong recommendations from the international community that their rights must be issued and, of course, give additional incomes that will be affirmed and reward their participation in the fight. So that fact scares me very much and I think that, as a doctor and as a humanist, I have the right to say that when a person is in a state of need for compensation, if he is 100% disabled, regardless of the origin of the disease that caused the disability, that he is equal in his needs. In the language of the people, who needs diapers is needed regardless of how disability is created, and who needs someone else's diaper is worth the same. So I think the Federal Ministry, I'm going to go back to it again because according to the information that I have in the RS, it's better regulated, the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, no matter what years it's been talking about making a bill, so who's going to treat this area, according to the information that I have, these laws are literally in the predicate phase, they're standing and not well done, at least in that conceptual sense that was visible to me a year ago. I think it's a terrible thing that an initiative by a group of MPs to return to the law of a child's age with a disability of less than 100%, and it's usually about children with 80% disability, children with mental retardation, that those children are derived from rights because they suffer, both children and their families who can't really carry out their work tasks for a simple reason, because our Bosnian Herzegovic society didn't allow adequate inclusion of children who have special needs, so especially mental disability, we didn't enable them to engage in the Bosnian Herzegovic society. Not to talk about schools, transportation, transportation. For years, it has been in the Ministry of Transport and Communication of the Federation, the conclusion of Parliament which I have submitted and which parliamentarians voted and who has obliged the government of the Federation of BiH to transport, in all the cities of the Federation, have to release a van of vehicles, give them permission to drive a van with... a ramp, which will allow people with disabilities to move around the city adequately, especially children of school and preschool age. But the Federation government has not done anything at all until today, regardless of what the commitment was to the Parliament's conclusion. So, physical barriers and access to schools and children are actually frightening, and I think the fact that these children and their families have no right to compensation, for adequate compensation, creates a new need for you to turn to them with a stronger, stronger tone, to express your very sharp attitude and I am very surprised that a group of parents, at least from the city of Sarajevo who is very aware of this, does not go to the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. I think the fact that you pointed out, related to gender equality and discrimination between women in the Bosnian Herzegovina society, is alarming because your claim that the management structures of the telecommunications company, therefore for the management of the hydroenergy potentials and natural and financial resources, that there are almost no women in the management structures, and how many colleagues in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives and the House of Peoples do not have to tell you, here you see, only the distinguished colleague Borjana Krišto and myself... and of course thanks to those who think about it, but I don't think that the Bosnian Herzegovic society is sufficiently aware and I think that the BiH Gender Equality Agency really needs to achieve its basic task, which is to promote the role of women in the Bosnian society and not allow them to discriminate. We have nothing of mere conventions, mere declarations, large expensive round 24 tables, which necessarily end with lunches, several days of travel, when the basic message before the election is not sent before the election, and that one vote for women. Women can do their job well and I think your recommendation is very good. And what is most important to me right now is the fact that the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Human Rights at the state level are doing a project on the development of transition justice and I am very concerned about the fact and information that I have learned that the representatives of these two respected ministries have not so far been involved in the Transition Justice Development project, and this project will be found very quickly before the delegates of this respected home and I think it would be good to go either with one conclusion or with a recommendation. Let this be a recommendation, to facilitate today's pilgrim activities, to include the Ombudsman Institution in the project Development of Transition Justice, mandatory Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Human Rights. I thank you for your work, congratulating on a good report that I will certainly support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1303	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. Here, if we from the College didn't answer for a word, your words were contained in our messages. The next one was registered for discussion by his colleague Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1304	Thank you very much, Chairman. This report on discrimination may be the most significant from the point of view of BiH's path to Europe, because discrimination is the most difficult form of human rights violations in general, based on something small, come on, let's call it a different one. That's why I'm surprised there's such a small number of objects. The objectively small, as I expected, 191 object is not such a large number, although you said there was an increase. It would have turned out for this if we didn't have so much discrimination as a whole, with me personally thinking that the situation here might be more difficult, only people aren't answering. And the other thing that comes slightly from this report of yours is that the fewer cases solved than the total number of cases... that people had to engage in other jobs, where the number of cases is clearly even bigger than this one. What I've come to most of all for is the question of meeting your recommendations, because I think that the recommendations, at least from these concrete examples you've set, have proved that whenever there is no respect for the recommendations, there has been a court, most often, and in a court of law punishment, payment. Although it is the institutions of government, I think they should do it in every way. And that's why my suggestion, not now, but for some next report, I don't think there's much room to make a list of proposals that can be done and how the Parliamentary Assembly can help to make your recommendations more binding than ever. They're recommendations, they're interpreters, they say, no matter what they tell us, they don't know shit about it. And I, believe me, I really think that this kind of thing, which is mildly observed with us, will essentially measure the seriousness of institutions and maturity to join European integration. Thank you very much. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1305	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. We don't have any more applications to argue on the agenda. We're closing the debate. We're voting for adoption of the report. Please initiate voting procedure. That's nice. Attendance 15. "For" 12, "against" one, "sustained" two. From Federation of BiH 10, all 'for'; from RS two 'for', one 'against', two'remained'. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find that the Annual Report on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH for 2011 has been adopted. Now we move to point 12. Ad. 12. Annual report on the results of the activities of the Ombudsman Institute for Human Rights of BiH, material of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution You have received the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, emigration, refugees, asylum and ethics that adopted the Report and proposed its adoption to the House. House of Representatives at the 27th session, held on 10th. 5th of this year, he adopted a report with conclusions. I give my word to the Reporter if there's any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1308	Thank you very much. Here, I haven't reported under the previous point that in some way and through this report contains the previous one. What I would say about the Report, which is here today, is really, as it says, based on the Law on Ombudsmans for Human Rights of BiH, where a legal obligation has been established for the Ombudsman institution to submit its report to the Parliamentary Assembly. And what I can say is in formal terms, so from the point of view of the law, it's actually factually and simply comprehensively, so in terms of this, by reading the report, I can't help but say hello. I am saddened by the fact that I had the opportunity to read some things, because the report really contains statistical and other indicators of activities, so we see that it is concrete in 2011. For 26 years, the Ombudsman institution has made 6.821 contacts, of which the Department for the Monitoring of Political and Civil Rights, which actually accepts the most of these cases, is 1.815, we see that the largest number of these complaints refer to courts because of their ineffectiveness, in fact because of violations, to say, the work of courts, the resolution of cases within a reasonable period, and this is a direct violation of both the European Convention and the fundamental constitutional and legal rights that are guaranteed. Other comments relate to management and property relations. What also saddens me, given the forwards I said, is the increase in shifts compared to the previous year, and is recorded in the Department of Elimination of all forms of discrimination and in the Department of Monitoring for the Rights of Prisoners, or Prisoners. In that sense, I would like to say that we all understand that in some ways many things are such that they affect the violation of rights, different discriminations, from the economic situation to the position of, or life, human standards. But indeed, since the case shows, or reports, that the institutions of the Ombudsman are at a stage of unfinished certain cases, here is specifically when talking about detainees at the Zenica Penalty-Making Institute. I would also stress this that we should support these proposals of conclusions, so in this sense I have actually come to the attention of the Parliamentary Assembly, or the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and all in order to strengthen the authority of the Ombudsman Institution, because we know that by the power of the ombudsman and our authority, we have already seen and we have been convinced, to resolve a number of cases, so that in this sense we want to give through these conclusions an even greater authority to the Ombudsman institution and thus create assumptions for good administration, with which these institutions have been set up, and so to say, we are prepared and prepared for the rule of law and for our European path of BiH in terms of respect and fundamental human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1309	Thank you, colleague Krišto. I'm a colleague of Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1310	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished delegates, honored guests, I would like to say just a few words briefly when it comes to this Annual Report on the results of the activities of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution, from the aspect of what seems to me to be sending messages that are very important to be heard here today during a public debate and not to remain a dead letter on paper because they point to certain phenomena in society that are very important. Of course, from the point of view of the report itself, which has analysed many institutes and many areas, we see that the report is very professionally made up and that there is a lot of information from it that says what time BiH is on human rights. But what I would like to touch today is a chapter on the analysis of complaints received when it comes to courts, administrations, property affairs, access to information, governmental and ministerial appointments, police, public documents, prosecutions, war damages, defences, media, freedom of information, from which information is clearly seen in which direction these appeals and these demands are being made. What is particularly important to me here is the assessment given by the Ombudsman as regards the judiciary. During this reporting period, violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms protected by Article 276. The European Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms in Court Procedures in most cases characterizes the length of court proceedings, ineffective enforcement of judicial decisions, legal uncertainty, inequality of judicial practice, non-compliance with court decisions and mistrust of citizens in courts. This is what sends very important messages, and if this is the case, and it seems to me that the Ombudsmans had enough elements to make these conclusions, then, when it comes to the rule of law, the basic democratic right to execute judicial decisions, and the non-execution of many judicial decisions that question property rights that depend on institutions, perhaps, which we also represent, are very difficult qualifications for me. This is what I wanted to make public and isolate this part of the report. Of course, this report, which is very comprehensive, I will accept and vote for it, but precisely because of these findings and what is currently being done and in this structural dialogue and the needs of reconstruction and justice, is another confirmation that we need to do this urgently in order for the rule of law to end in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1311	Thank you, fellow Rodić. We don't have any more logs. I don't see any interest in the application. We're closing the debate on this agenda item. We're voting for adoption of the report. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 15. "For" 14, one "sustained." From Federation of BiH 10, all 'for'; from RS four 'for', one'maintained'. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that the Annual Report on the results of the activities of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution has been adopted. Now I'm going to ask my colleague, Krišto, regarding the conclusions, have you been able to define the conclusions?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1312	... until 30. Nine. In 2012. [[no microphone turned on]] Another conclusion: 'To also support the efforts of the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution to resolve permanent accommodation, and to urge all levels of BiH authorities and potential donors to support these efforts'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1313	Thank you, colleague Krišto. I should point out that these are the same conclusions as we had in the House of Representatives, so that our text might be identical. I'm opening a voting procedure on these conclusions. Attendance 15. "For" 13, "against" no one, "sustained" two. From the Federation of BiH nine 'for', one 'abstained'; from RS four 'for', one'maintained'. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I find that two conclusions from my colleague, Kristo, have been adopted. 28 We move to the 13th point of today’s agenda: Ad.13. Report on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2005 2010 – Council of Ministers material You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission adopted the report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The Commission also adopted the conclusion and the Report, with the exception of the conclusion under number 2 along with another additional conclusion by the Commission, so that the conclusions read as follows: 1. A report on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in BiH for the period 2005-2010 is being adopted. A year. 2. Authors and holders of copyright and related rights shall be invited to step up their activities with a view to meeting the conditions for the authorisation of collective exercise of their rights. 3. It is necessary to hire relevant institutions in BiH to establish the true and complete financial operations of existing collective organisations. 4. The BiH Council of Ministers, the Institute of Intellectual Property, should submit a Report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly once a year on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in BiH until the full implementation of the Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights. The House of Representatives is held at the 26th session, held on 19th. 4th of this year, adopted a report with five conclusions. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Court of the House of Peoples, my colleague Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1315	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1316	Thank you very much, fellow Simić. I give my word to the rapporteur of the report, the representative of the Council of Ministers. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, thank you very much. We also thank our fellow Ombudsmans. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. A colleague of Raguž has an interest in the debate. Comrade Raguž, here you go. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1318	I thank you, Mr. President. I support the report, I support the conclusions, very briefly. The legal basis here for this report states that the conclusions of the 80th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives held on 30th. Six. In 2010, with the adoption of the law, it was then concluded that the Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives required a year, from the adoption of this law, to consider the impact of their amendments and to possibly propose new amendments and complements. Here, it's almost two years now. So this is the first time we've had a report. This, given the time it runs in BiH, is a year-longing, but still one dynamic that can be endured. And today we can see the effects of this law. The point here is that there was a legal gap in this period from 2005 to 2010 and that it was a space that was not defined by law and that is how we should treat it. And the organizations that were involved in copyright protection, in collective terms, worked as hard as they could and certainly there were certain anomalies, but the fact that during the... five-year period and the adoption of the Law created a legal framework to work within the rule of law and to protect the rights of authors. This report lacks an evaluation of the authors themselves that their rights are protected. I believe until they complain that they're satisfied with the shifts. But the essence of the story is here that the conclusions, which are here in the report of the Institute, say that the full effects of the implementation of the Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights will only be visible after the authorisation and the function of collective implementation organisations, in accordance with the system set out in this law. So we expect that we will regularly receive reports and that organisations dealing with the protection of these rights will take advantage of this opportunity and the space provided by this law but also that authors and other rightholders will be animated with the aim of further organising and quality protection of their own rights. And here, all Parliament needs to do in this regard is continue to monitor the realization of its own conclusions and to support the exercise of these legitimate rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1319	Thank you, Comrade Raguž. He's a colleague of Ivanic's.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1320	What surprises me in this report is the fact that practically here it is said that these four institutions that have been working, if I understand correctly, none in the opinion of the Institute should continue to work. And from what I've seen, in second place, no one else has asked for permission, which means that if anything like that happens to me, we should say that there aren't any institutions that deal with copyright protection, which would essentially mean stamping, doing, recording, playing, not just musicians, not just musicians, there are other people, professors of the university, you'll find a bunch of textbooks copied without any fees, by our copiers, people who tried to make something, do, not to say, all kinds of copyrights. If this is the situation, it means if this isn't good, then this must be a media-aggressive attack against the public to tell her -- we had some 30 institutions, those who think, the Institute obviously thinks that... they worked well, they didn't work well. People, come on, I invite you to start building institutions that will work in the right way and truly protect you. Because if this area stays the way it is, only then do not talk about the EU, because what is absolutely unimaginable to others is happening to us. So, I'd like to, if there's someone from the Institute to tell us, well I can understand their attitude, these aren't good, I can understand that, but if these aren't good and the others aren't, or at least, here I see that it says there's no registration request, then maybe I didn't get it right. Guys, I mean, for me, that's not the answer. For me, that's just not the answer. I won't, I believe the Institute is doing its job properly and I can see when I'm reading this now, I mean, we're not judges that we can get into this area. I, who are dissatisfied with the report, refer more to the court than to us as parliamentarians that we can now weigh in whether these are correct, whether they are correct, I simply don't know. For me, according to the definition of the state body, it is conditionally said, let me say it should do its job, but I expect the state authority to tell me what the way out of this area is now, because I don't really want to close those institutions that have worked. Here, very honest and very open. And if we can get an answer to that question to know how to define myself, what to do.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1321	Of course, colleague Ivanic. The director of the Institute, Mrs. Vignjević, is with us, but I will ask you, since we have one more in the debate, that you may fully respond. The next one checked in with his colleague Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1323	A colleague, Ivanić, will not hear the answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1324	I'm coming back, I'm coming back.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1325	First of all, I share the satisfaction of previous speakers that this report was on the agenda and that we are dealing with it. It is precisely because of the reason Mr Ivanić mentioned that our authors, today's public, are informed that we have adopted certain laws that need to bring order and establish order in a very serious social activity. I've experienced this law before when it was the law on small music copyrights, I don't know who they were before the war, like a law that has a central goal and a task to provide and protect the authors, that the authors are the ones who have to and should have adequate compensation for the use of their works of art, whether it be musicians, theatre dramatists, writers, university teachers who write textbooks, etc. I therefore believe that this report is initial and that we do not even need to look for hair in the egg, but that we should start from becoming a practice and that we all affirm together this practice that will lead, on the one hand, to the protection of authors, and, on the other hand, that agencies, or legal persons, 31 or legal entities, which deal with these issues, are also in the function of such action. To be in the position of such action, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to provide the principle of legality of work. On the Constitutional Commission... this report has caused great attention and long ago there has been no such debate that has been comprehensive and that has raised many and many questions and it is difficult to repeat them here. I see one of the agencies... with a question addressed to Parliament and I managed to read this no matter what I got this morning. I don't think they essentially affected our views on the Constitutional Commission. Why? Of course, and these agencies that deal with this job are in one new job, establishing a system of co-operation with other countries and protecting authors, and I don't see any reason why a report that needs to be encouraged to address the shortcomings, if there are, to be welcomed with even the court witches, as we do well. This commission is competent to appreciate, assess and monitor it. Of course, I expect that the Commission is not just some arbitration officer who assesses, assesses and plays Baba Rog, that there should be one co-operation in improving this work and that action, because our goal is the same. If there are any irregularities in registration, I see no reason, I do not share Mr Ivanić's opinion that this should be closed. I have not seen it anywhere in the Commission's Report, but if there are shortcomings, those agencies that want to deal with these issues should, if these shortcomings exist, remove them in the shortest time, take measures to bring the registration rule into line, if it takes permission from the Institute to obtain it, of course the Institute shall verify that all the conditions are met. Because I appreciate that here is the Institute, and so is this Parliamentary Assembly, which will lead to the control of this action, on the same task: the collection of copyright fees and delivery to their authors. I would have here compared to one agency even a shocking indicator, that the maltenes were all spent and shown as expenses. Then I'm asking myself a question, and I'm asking myself today, I think it's called Akvaris or something -- did that agency set up to take off the kamak author? This is a very serious job, a sophisticated job, and I stay with that proposal of conclusion that I also made on the Committee, along with Mrs. Krišto, to submit reports, not to control, but to improve this system, to create conditions for authors to get their money, and agencies dealing with these activities to fulfil their obligation on the principle of the rule of law. Because their obligation, I see that there is a mention of non-profitability here, is also socially useful and socially desirable. Therefore, I remain in the process of adopting this report along with these suggestions that cooperation must be achieved and the system must be created as soon as possible so that we have agencies that do their job in a legitimate manner, that there must be costs, of course, but that the primary goal is for the authors to receive the amounts. I'll tell you about an anecdote. I was a student, even a high school student, when Fadil Redžić and the late Davorin Popović sang at the sports game stadium, so they were those reports when Redžić said, "Fill this report of what we played, to get a few dollars." People who are authors live on it. Therefore, we must ensure both the Institute and the Parliament and the agencies involved in this work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1326	Thank you, colleague Simić. A colleague, Rodić, applied for the debate. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1327	Mr. Chairman, respected delegates, ladies and gentlemen, since we have heard today from previous speakers that this issue is very serious and the very fact that this report on the functioning of the collective exercise system of copyright and related rights from 2005 to 2010 says that it has been a long time, that certain things have happened. But here, I think, after the session of the Constitutional Commission, where there have been very high-quality discussions and I think that this part of the conclusion that is here today is the result of looking at the overall problems in this area. So I think after today's session and what we're about to hear here, we can give a boost to the further work of this institution. However, what I particularly want to stress today and what seems to me to be working interactively, if we want to have success in one area, and it seems to me that today we live in the time of many plagiarists and what, when it comes to intellectual property, is not protected even though we have legal norms and that it often happens that only law enforcement is not adequate as we wanted. We have a standard on one side and on the other side of reality, and that's what's causing us problems. What I'm about to point out only today is what I said and what I said on the Constitutional Commission is something that seemed to me to be the key thing of this report. It comes from everything else, and I quote: "Despite the established legal framework and a series of promotional activities until the conclusion of the Report, no association or existing organisation has submitted a request to the Institute for the granting of a collective exercise of copyright and related rights in accordance with the provisions of this law." And what we could hear and what results from the Report is that financial operations are still today, although we have received before this session a report from one of these agencies, but what he found out in the debate we had was the fact that financial business is most of these disastrous and that most of these revenues are left for the work of these organisations and very little is given to the authors. Even astoundingly, the authors did not practically follow the work of these agencies in an adequate way. Therefore, I believe that in the further implementation of this law, of course, with the help of people who deal with this area, we must find a mechanism that will allow this law to be implemented by the end, to introduce into it all those who deal with this area, especially after all these years, but here after today's debate on this report and these conclusions that go in the direction of giving greater power to you who are dealing with this to get to the end of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1328	Thank you, fellow Rodić. A colleague of Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1329	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues and fellow delegates, so first of all, I would like to say, speaking to the authors, that if anyone understands you in this room, you are understood by the SDS, HDZ and the SDA. We were not only plagiarized by the programmes, but some parties even plagiarized the name to participate in the authorial work of political nature. But this isn't about sympathy, this isn't about anything else, this is about a simple regulation of a market that you can be or you don't have to be satisfied with, but the bottom line is that there are rules of the game. The rules of play in 33 of this case are implemented by the Institute which has confidence in the mandate in which it is located and before us is the Report that is here on the table. The question here is how do those who want to participate in this competition and it is nothing more than a contest from the Institute to the listener, read, watch, etc. enjoy, how to sort things out by a) avoiding the monopoly position that some of the associations are looking for, I will not mention anyone in particular, and I have watched almost all the shows on OBN, and how to ultimately separate the authorial work from what is not an authorial work, which is obvious plagiarism. In this segment, the Institute does not have any chapters, no department in its Report, in order to draw attention to that part of the story, because the author's work by definition is therefore what the author created. Not what he prescribed, not what he recorded, not what he, what I say, copied. So a number of other questions besides this 'who's going to charge tantiums' must be considered when it comes to this or some similar report. What's the big deal here? Here, the main issue is that in a very unstable and very difficult area, they try to impose rules as they apply to the Union of Auditors and Accountants and many other things. Here these things simply cannot be copied because they go beyond the borders, how BiH, how the entity, how the hearing area, ratings, reading and certain media, is, on the contrary, even from the environment, not to say globally, the same question of copyright is happening here. This Institute is not in charge, but here should also talk about how to address tax and other matters, what the state has a concrete interest in, all advertising, propaganda videos and a lot of what's being broadcast through HRT, RTV Serbia and other cable or satellite TVs that we see. So, to talk this wide-ranging about copyright today, about the rights of a state of someone's copyright, about the rights of an author of some copyright and the rights of different professional intermediaries, I don't think we can, because this report doesn't give enough information about it. On the other hand, this House of Nations is not in a position, nor can you, after all, see or will, to solve the question of who is right from different, I will not mention anyone special, associations or companies that are trying to dominate in this area in order to obtain direct, normal, legitimate, legal property benefits. So, this story today is not even started, unfortunately, and it would be the turn to start because, as Mr Ivanic says, given these professional copyrights and publishing articles, this, this, etc., I don't say patents, but that's not the subject here right now, so it's a whole area where it does whatever it wants. And finally, if you allow a small replica, even if I make a joke, don't worry, Mr Ivanić, while this topic is here with us and as we enter the EU, it's likely that these pirate parties will win there, so we'll all have to work from the beginning, completely different from solving this area, when we're already unseriously treating it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1330	Thank you very much. Since the replica has been reported by colleague Raguž, please welcome colleague Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1331	I just want to say that the story didn't start today. Some of us have initiated the adoption of this law on which there are documents, so I'd like to talk about facts now. Any further commenting on evaluations in terms of exclusivity would take us 34 to another kind of debate that will not be avoided, she will one day, as things stand, look fast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1332	Thank you, Comrade Raguž. He's a colleague of Ivanic's.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1333	First of all, I have to say, even though I was saying I wasn't an SDS plagiarizer... don't give me Bog, it wouldn't even occur to me. So that's the first thing. And second of all, believe me, I'm not afraid for Europe, but I'm absolutely not afraid, they'll solve their problems with pirate stations and whether it can be taken off the Internet free or not. We, when we get to that level that getting off the Internet is our main problem, then we've arranged our copyright pretty well. We don't basically have, with us public services, sometimes we can ask whether they pay for copyright or not, they think it's a privilege, that they also do a commercial for those people who do it. So there's no need for any big debate of that kind. And we stayed concerned and the rest of us also understand the authors, not just these three big parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1334	Thank you, fellow Ivanic. A fellow Košarac player.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1335	Thank you, Chairman. I think that the BiH community tried to arrange this area in 2005 and that the Law was passed in 2005 and what is very important is the fact that this country's Parliament is discussing the system and that it wants to regulate this area in the interests of the author and in one way to prevent the plagiarism of what you are producing here in this country. And what is very important today is that we have information like this on the agenda, this report and what is very important is that you from this session can bring one message to the House of Peoples, or the Parliamentary Assembly and the institutions of this country that want to organize this area together, based on what may hurt you most. Because you're authentically producing a certain type of product and I think it's the obligation of this country to protect you. And that's how we're going to produce, I'd say, another kind of domestic product in this country and try to sell it. And based on that sale and those... you're the ones who carry that idea, you should be the most protected. He can't talk about political ideas because he was a radical then, and he's talking about the SDS idea programme, so sometimes it's better not to talk. Thank you. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1336	Thank you for your constitutional discussion and future replicas. While the replica is gone, colleague Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1337	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is very important that representatives of this respected home today discuss copyright protection. This should be our goal because everything that is our original Bosnian hergic we must protect at full capacity. And therefore, consider us on your side. The report says that some users have cited a number of complaints in the way Sina qua non operates and on their, they say, incorrect attitude towards users of services. It is said that the company Sine qua non had a very incorrect relationship with most electronic media, so it is primarily mentioned radio Kalman, Radio Uno, TV Tešanj,... that they were threatened (Is it time for someone to threaten someone in BiH?) that if they do not sign the contract, they will not receive long-term authorisation from the RAC, that they have not accepted any proposal from the Representative Association of Electronic Media, with a threat, or an explanation that they can implement their contracts by judicial means. It's not a good way to communicate business. It is claimed that Sine qua non never provided the list of authors it represents, how much money it has collected, according to which principle it distributes, to which the authors it has paid the tantium, in which amount. It would be very good for the distinguished delegates of this house to have such a list in front of them so that they can decide what is really right and what is not. Is something regular or isn't it? I think that the attitude of all users of the electronic media to pay for the use of copyright works but also to believe that tariffs must be established by negotiations between the collective organisation and the representative association of users and according to the regulations of the new law which regulates the area of copyright and related rights in BiH – is the office. According to the documentation provided, it is not clear from the documentation that the entity, i.e. the authority, has made decisions on collective exercise of copyright and related rights and... decisions on the adoption of the business plan from 2005 to 2010, which is a very long period of time, that it has made the Sine Qua non Assembly although, according to the Statute of the undertaking, it does not exist at all. Unbelievable. When adopting a general assessment of the business of Sina qua, it is not necessary to say that the current way of business of this agency is not possible because it does not meet the standards regarding the transparency and democracy of the work of the organisation, and that transparency and democracy must exist in the work of every organisation that works with BiH authors, especially with the aim of achieving their collective objectives, with the aim of a transparent way of sharing income and efficiency in achieving legally regulated objectives, and with the aim of protecting respected authors and their copyrights in BiH. And I think it is very important that this home today discuss this and that this is just the beginning in protecting the rights of the BiH author. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1338	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. 36 We No More Reports for Controversy. I will now ask Mrs. Vignjević as director of the Institute to give us her view of this issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1339	Thank you, Your Honor. Respected working presidency, respected representatives and guests, well, maybe I should give some basic remarks on why we started, before answering the questions and dilemmas that were given in the debate, why we went a little wider in considering the functioning of the copyright and related rights system in a collective manner in the period 2005. - 2010. In short, firstly, the legal framework of the 2002 Copyright and Related Rights Act did not answer these questions at all. So he did not regulate the exercise of copyright in a collective way, so that I do not now elaborate on how collective exercise and the licensing system itself were interpreted in practice. Secondly, according to the Law, there was a legal void and the Institute had absolutely no authority to grant permission to carry out any kind of surveillance, nor did it have a mechanism to supervise the work of existing organisations, so that the control of the work of organisations was never actually done. This is the first report made by the Institute in this segment. Second, users and many authors expressed doubts about the legitimate business, i.e. the legality of the distribution of the fees collected. And otherwise, given the specificity of the exercise of copyright and related rights in a collective way, a shorter period, as it is contained in the conclusion of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly, could not in a complete way give one, I say, a more complete assessment of the situation in this area. What's important is, let's say what was missing and what we specifically pointed out in the report, which is that there was no legally regulated question of the form and status of a collective organisation, so to speak, no conditions were regulated for collective achievement, standards for international organisations, tariffs and tariff agreements absolutely not in any document, until this Law on collectively exercised copyright and related rights were governed. The relationship between the collective organisation towards the bearers and the users of the right has also not been regulated. And, as I said, state control through the Institute of Intellectual Property, therefore the provisions on state control are lagging behind, which means that all specific issues were left to the organisations themselves. In short, what we wanted in the Report and in the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly, and by media comments and, so to speak, to the direct complaints of the authors themselves who came to the Institute – it is to look at the state of functioning of this system from the aspect of meeting international standards. International standards are known and not that, we only implemented them in the existing Law on collective enforcement of copyright and related rights from 2010, which is the first non-profit character of the organization. And, as you can see, the existing organizations are about the status itself different. Two companies, limited-responsibility companies, which, by their very nature, are not a good environment for the exercise of copyright and related rights, generally. It's the organization's specialty only for those jobs that are related to copyright and related rights. And that's what we've done, one improvement in the law, and we've arranged exactly what the organization can and must do. Secondly, the third standard is that monopoly position of the organization. It is, everywhere in the world, present in the legislation that one organisation, so to avoid competition among organisations and to create legal certainty among the users themselves, all countries have this so-called. 37 legal monopoly given to one organisation for one type of right to the same type of work. It was also done with our Law on collective achievement, and it gives, therefore, not only the safety of the authors but also the users, but the monopoly is under the control of the state. And there is a role in BiH, the role of the Institute itself, that it can adequately monitor the work of organisations. Among other things, one mechanism of monitoring the work of these organisations is envisaged, which is that organisations must call on the representatives of the Institute and the representatives of the users to attend all meetings of their governing bodies. What, I must say, from the entry into force of the 2010 Act to today has not happened. The Institute was not invited to any session of the Management Board or Assembly. Democracy of governance of organisations. That's one principle, so the organization has to be open to the authors, that they must... be represented in all the governing bodies of such an organization, which has shown, here, in all these organizations that it has not happened: transparency of work, ban on discrimination. Justice in the division, that is the essence of the complete system of why there are organisations, which is that in one transparent way we agree on tafiras, negotiates the distribution of fees to all authors, so that it is not a monopoly of one narrow circle of faces. Therefore, this also results in the efficiency of the business assessed in the Report as assessed. ... I don't want to talk about this anymore, because I'm afraid I'll go too far, just to give an answer to the distinguished representative Mladen Ivanić. Last year, when we were doing this report at the 10th month, then none of the organizations, of the existing organisations or of the new associations, submitted a request for permission. The situation now, at a time when this report is being discussed, is different. Last year we received two requests. We've processed them. Unfortunately, both requests have been rejected. It's one thing for cable re-emitting, because no formal conditions have been met. The second is for issuing a temporary license for reprographic rights, and conditions have not been met either. And before, I think 15 days, maybe more, that AMUS, the Association of Music Authors has filed an application to the Institute for the authorisation of copyright and we are in the formal examination phase of the request and I hope that we will process the complete request and complete the procedure before we are under our implementing regulations in the obligation, and the obligation is no later than six months. As far as the system itself is concerned, so the requirements situation, we have an announcement from Sina qua non, came five or six days ago, announcing that the Institute will be contacted with a request for copyright. But I mean, just a letter of intent doesn't have any legal power, so we're waiting for a request. Looking from a legal point of view, these organizations, therefore these four existing organisations, should now exercise the rights under the permission granted by the Institute in the previous period. That's what Article 44 obliges them to do. The collective exercise of copyright and related rights law, where the legislator gave them the right to continue to carry out that activity for a transitional period of up to two years and to adapt their organisational form, but also to the two-year period up to 11. 8th of this year, to request that they enter the process as well as some other associations that intend to deal with this business, which means, I mean, these are not acquired rights for any of these four organizations. We'll see what happens. Yes, I apologize, and Kvantum has filed a request and he is also in the formal investigation process. As for the comments of the distinguished representative, Kapetanović, that users have expressed a kind of negative attitude towards the Blue Quan, we have it in writing. And you can check it all out. So, what's important, here's just a little bit more, which is important for the organisation's business itself and for the financial effects, the Institute couldn't carry out actual control and the real state of business of all four organizations. We got all this data and we made this analysis based on the obtained 38 documents from organisations themselves and provided financial indicators and we made the conclusions as proposed in the material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1340	Thank you. Here, we heard a comprehensive report and a detailed debate on the 13th agenda. As far as I can tell, we're out of press releases. I'm concluding a debate on this point. We're voting for adoption of the report. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 14. "In" 14. From Federation of BiH nine, all 'for'; from RS five, all 'for'. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I agree that the report on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in BiH for the period 2005. - 2010 adopted. And now I'm going to ask you to vote on the conclusions of the commission I've read. We're initiating voting procedure. Thank you. Attendance 14. "In" 14. From Federation nine, all 'for'; from RS five, all 'for'. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I find that the conclusions of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. ... Thank you as guests at today's session, we move to the 14th item of the agenda: Ad. 14. Report on the work of the BiH Export and Credit Export Agency for 2011, Export and Credit Agency material You have received the opinion of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. The commission accepted the report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The House of Representatives is held at the 26th session, held on 19th. This year's 4th, adopted the report. I give my word to the chairman of the Committee, if necessary, fellow Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1342	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1343	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Reporter, the representative of the Management Board. Is there a need? _________(?) 39 [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much, no. Goodbye, cheers. We're opening a debate on this agenda point. There's no record of the hearing. I don't see any interest in the application. We're closing the debate on this agenda point. We're voting for adoption of the report. Run procedure, please. Thank you very much. Attendance 13. "For" 12, "against" no one, "sustained" one. From the Federation of BiH nine 'for', from the RS three 'for', one'maintained'. There's a general and entity majority. I find that the report on the work of the BiH Export-Credit Agency Management Board for the past year has been adopted. Moving to the point of today's 15th agenda: Ad. 15. Report on the work of the Postage Transport Agency BiH and the 2011 Financial Report, the Agency's postal transport material
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1346	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1347	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Reportant, to the Agency's representative, if necessary. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. ... A fellow Bradarić! Here you go, colleague Bradarić. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1349	Okay, thank you. Let me also tell Mr Tadić that the SDP programme is a plagiarism, but we have prescribed it from the Social Democratic Party of Europe and because of its universal political action, we are glad to see it so. But there it was, and the Mladen started to justify herself, so I said, come on, which I wouldn't. I understand the Agency's responsibilities and I have one question here, actually, maybe an intervention. The postal services market in BiH is liberalised, except, as you say here, in part of the reserved area of universal postal services. And here I am asking for whom these postal services are reserved. Are they reserved for banks, whose services are much more expensive and not for mail in BiH, all three of these operators, and JP BH Post and Post Offices of RS and Croatian Post Offices, etc., when we know that mail is still owned today by the state, entities? And I think there should be one social concern for them, at least, until the liberalisation has taken hold or caught a full wave. Especially since it seems to me that banks are charging their services and several times more. So, is it reserved for these banks whose services are several times larger and larger. And we know that, let's say, I know about the BH Post office that she's been... cumulatively paying for the roads since 2010, somewhere around 40 million marks. I'm sure that's what the other two mails did. I don't believe that's what banks do. I don't know if they have an obligation to pay for highways, etc. And here, I'm asking if you can intervene on that, since most of these services are given to banks. So let's say, wartime military people, I think they're raising their disability across the bank in all of BiH. It seems to me he's trying to post office take and pay off pensions, etc. So the question: Can you intervene here that under these same conditions primate is given to all three operators in BiH? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1350	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. Do we have any more applications for a hearing? There isn't. Here, I'll ask the Agency's representative to speak to us briefly. The chairman of the Agency, Mr. Šakota, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1351	Dear President, esteemed MPs, my name is Eduard Šakota, and I am currently the chairman of the Agency's Council. Before I answer this question, I would like to welcome you on behalf of my colleagues, the other two members of the agency, Mr. Delivoj Đerić and Šerif Isović. Well, speaking of questions, the reserved area according to the Law on Post Offices of BiH is a thousand grams. It is reserved for three public postal operators, and other postal service providers can carry shipments that are over a thousand grams and that are priced ten times more expensive. As for letter senders, it's up to a thousand grams, and the package shipments are up to two kilograms. And as for the road payment, I have to tell you that I don't know it. They're postal operators, if they were paying for something, but I don't get it. 41 A pension payment goes through mail, of course and the banks are here on the market of financial services and here we are talking about postal services and in that part of financial services we do not have jurisdiction under the Law on Postage of BiH. This is it, if there are any more questions, I can answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1352	There's no need for further clarifications. Thank you. There are no more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're voting for adoption of the report. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 13. "For" 13. From Federation of BiH nine, all 'for'; from RS four 'for'. There's a general and entity majority. I agree that the report on the work of the Post Office for Postal Transport BiH and the Financial Report for the past year has been adopted. Thank you for your presence. Moving to the 16th point of the agenda: Ad. 16. Information on the establishment of functions and structures of the decentralised management system (DIS) through the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA), material of the Council of Ministers of BiH You have received the opinion of the Joint Committee on European Integration, which has received knowledge of the Information and proposes to the House its adoption with the following conclusions: 1. Information on the establishment of functions and structures of a decentralised instrument management system is given to the knowledge of pre-accession assistance in which the present problems and delays in the process of setting up a DIS are indicated. 2. The constant delay and pro-longing of the deadlines has caused BiH to come from the top post to the start of the region's countries following progress in the establishment of the DIS. 3. All institutions involved in the setting-up process are required to continue to engage as quickly and efficiently as possible in the establishment of this system. The House of Representatives is held at the 27th session, held on 10th. 5th of this year, I received information with conclusions from the opinion of the Joint Commission, which I read. I give my word to my fellow Genjac if there's any need, on behalf of the Joint Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1354	42 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1355	Thank you very much, fellow Genjac. I'm giving the applicant a word of information. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. There are no reports. We're closing the debate. We're voting on Information. Run the voting system, please. Thank you. Attendance 13. "For" 13. From Federation of BiH nine, all 'for'; from RS four, all 'for'. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I find that the Information on the establishment of functions and structures of the decentralised management system of the Instrument pre-accession assistance has been accepted. And now we're voting on the Commission's conclusions. Please start. Thank you. Attendance 13. "For" 13. From Federation of BiH nine, all 'for'; from RS four, all 'for'. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I find that the conclusions of the Joint Committee on European Integration have been adopted. Moving to the 17th point of the agenda: Ad. 17. A statement on the initiative of envoy Nermine Kapetanović from the 11th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, held on 1. 2. In 2012, which reads: “Information on bh. Immigrantism – the state and the necessary measures, to be prepared by the Council of Ministers of BiH"
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1358	... the initiative since we changed the name and simplified it, so... [[no microphone turned on]] The Council of Ministers. I would like to say once again that, according to the information, BiH citizens have, our emigrants represent a great potential for BiH's development, both because of their numbers and because of the fact that they are made up of a large number of highly educated people, especially young people who receive daily education at the most prestigious universities around the world. Our citizens abroad are among the best integrated foreigners who have proven themselves by their knowledge, values and abilities and become useful and esteemed citizens of countries around the world. There is a fact that many of them have successfully affirmed themselves on the scientific, natural, cultural, sports, and political agenda. I appreciate that they can make a significant contribution to the affirmation of BiH's interest in the world, and in addition, emigration is very important also because of the large financial capital that comes to BiH through money transfers and thus places our country in the leading countries in Europe and the world in terms of monetary incomes. My intention is very sincere, and I really want this information, which I ask the Council of Ministers, that if the distinguished colleagues of the House agree with it, I want to point to the enormous intellectual and financial potential of bh. emigrants and possibly their willingness to help develop their home country of BiH in any way. I think the possibilities of using resources are bh. Immigrants are huge, and all for the purpose of BiH's development in various areas, primarily starting with the economy, and then from science and education and culture. Certain activities should also be taken to contribute to the affirmation and preservation of national and cultural identity bh. citizens in emigration, with particular emphasis on the need to improve the learning of the native language. Through the preservation of the native language, as the main elements of cultural and national identity, it would be good to create basic conditions for developing future ties between the country of the queen and the diaspora with the young generations that are standing. I note that the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees is in charge of creating BiH's policy towards emigration and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs to encourage and develop and co-ordinate co-operation with BiH emigration. So I ask my distinguished colleagues to support my initiative, to obtain from the Council of Ministers a thorough information on the situation in the area of emigration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1359	Thank you to my colleague, Kapetanović. We're opening a debate on this agenda point. We don't have a report. I'm closing the debate. We're launching a voting procedure on this initiative. Thank you very much. 44 Attendance 14. "To" 13, "sustained" one. Is it a mistake or, okay, one "sustained", I'm sorry... From Federation of BiH nine, all 'for'; from RS four 'for', one'remained'. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I would like to conclude that this initiative by Envoy Kapetanović for inclusion in the agenda of the House of Peoples session, under point, is called ‘Information on Bosnian Herzegovina – the state and the necessary measures to be prepared by the Council of Ministers’. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda: Ad. 18. The extension of the mandate to the Commission for the verification of the legality of the process of destruction of ammunition and mine-explosive assets, weapons and military equipment, materials under regular number..., of 26. 4th of this year The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at its 7th session, held 1. 12 last year, and the House of Representatives held at the 13th session, held on 10th. Last 11th, he adopted a conclusion that formed an investigative commission to investigate the overall process of destroying ammunition, mine-explosives, weapons, military equipment, check the legality of the entire process and report it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes. The deadline for completion of the activity is three months after the establishment of the Research Commission. Since the Commission has not been able to hold a number of meetings over the past period due to its members' obligations, it has submitted a request for the extension of the mandate to the Commission for the next three months, in order to effectively complete the activities undertaken, after which the Commission would submit the final report to the House of Parliament. The House of Representatives is held at the 27th session, held on 10th. 5th of this year, adopted a request for an extension of the mandate to the Bureau of Investigation to 25th. Seven this year. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There's no sign-ins. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on a request to extend the mandate to the Commission for the verification of the legality of the process of destruction of ammunition and mine-explosive assets, weapons and military equipment. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 13. "In" 12, "against" one. From the Federation of BiH eight 'for', one 'against'; from RS four, all 'for'. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I find that the mandate of the Commission of Investigation to verify the legality of the process of destroying ammunition and mine-explosive assets, weapons and military equipment has been extended for the next three months. Now, according to established practice so far, since we have remained from point 19 until the end of the ratification agenda of the agreement, so I suggest we bring the debate together: a statement on granting consent to ratification of the agreements and conventions from 19 to 32, including point 32. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. 45 As far as I can tell, there's no application. You all agree. We vote. Please initiate voting procedure for this initiative. Thank you. Attendance 13. "For" 12, one "sustained," mistake, I don't need to repeat for this. From Federation nine, all 'for'; from RS three 'for', one'maintained'. There is a general and entity majority, with an highlighted voter error. So the proposal was passed. Ad. 19. - 32. Granting consent
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1362	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-15-0.u1363	Thank you very much, colleague Bećirović. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? No one. We're closing the debate. We vote on granting consent to ratifying the agreements and conventions referred to in points 19 to 32, including point 32. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 13. "For" 13. From Federation of BiH nine, all 'for'; from RS four, all 'for'. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreements and conventions referred to in points 19 to 32 of today's agenda, including point 32. With this, we exhausted today’s agenda and concluded the 15th session of the House of Peoples. Thank you very much. The seat's over at 13.40.
