ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9385	I am opening my 26th session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations who follow the regular work of our home, the media. Also invited to the session were the Ombudsmans for human rights, the chairman of the BiH Export and Credit Agency's Management Board, the chairman of the BiH Post Traffic Agency's Council to discuss materials from their jurisdiction. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. According to service information, 35 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the amendments and additions to the agenda, I would like to inform you that we have added item 3 to the agenda. Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act (first reading), and downloaded item 15 from the agenda Information on the establishment of functions and structures of a decentralised management system. The Joint Commission for European Integration did not hold its session due to the lack of quorum and asked for information to be considered at the next House session. I think it's a bad practice and that we should try, especially when there's a big gap between the two sessions, that the commissions are held up and that we try to finish all the jobs that are necessary for the implementation of the agenda in that time. We've completed point six. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of a holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity, as well as points 7. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina and 8. Proposal for a law to suspend the validity of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecution Act with opinions from commissions that have, meanwhile, completed their work. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9386	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have a proposal to supplement the proposed agenda, which would read: Information on the opening of the Public Competition for the selection and appointment of two members of the Central Election Commission. 2 motives and reasons why I am doing this: I have information that on 10 April this year, the Parliamentary Commission of the House of Representatives has called a 'public competition for the selection and appointment of two CEC members'. It is evident that this commission has not taken into account the provisions of Article 2 paragraph 15 (4) of the BiH Election Law which is prescribed, and I quote: "If a member of the Election Commission stands out in the election period, his term of office will be extended until the election period is up." As announced, the electoral process should begin in early May, 7 May, 8 May, and will continue safely until the elections, or by October of the month, and there is an objective danger of us getting into a situation to violate this member of the Electoral Law. It is true that the procedure for selecting a new CEC member is launched three months before the mandate expires. These people, at least according to the information I have, the mandate is somewhere in July this year. The election must take place 30 days before the end of the term of office. Therefore, there is also a kind of conflict in this provision which does not allow, i.e. requires an extension of the term of office if the end is in the electoral period, and one which requires that three months before the end, etc. But regardless, we will – if something of this House of Representatives which is the only one who is authorized to appoint, resolve etc. Members of the CEC – come to the situation that we will violate the provisions of the Election Law. Of course, I will not abuse, I will also ask the President of the Commission to elect two members, and if it is accepted to discuss this, to state the Commission's position, and when it comes to complaints and earlier discussions on this. So I absolutely just want this parliament to stay out of the situation to break the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9387	Thank you. Please deliver it to me and just tell me what point it should be. Dear Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9388	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, I submitted an initiative to reduce salaries and other responsibilities to representatives and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH before last session of the House of Representatives, but they say that I had late delivered the procedure according to the Rules of Procedure, so here is why I ask the College what is wrong with this initiative, why it is not today on the agenda or the meeting of the committee in charge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9389	Here I'll call the secretary to answer your question, if you need to add to that thing. I think we all voted here to put it on the agenda and it didn't go away. I didn't realize after that it was your initiative. So, proposed for the agenda, voted and not accepted. But here, if the secretary has anything else to add. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9390	Here, let me add, for the last session, it was a proposal to supplement the agenda. There was a vote on that proposal. The proposal wasn't accepted, so it wasn't on the agenda last session and we didn't take it as an initiative later. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9391	Here you go, Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9392	Please, since the House didn't vote on my initiative at all,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9393	It's been voted in on an extended college.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9394	So it was voted on by the Expansive College?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9395	But you didn't rebuild at the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9396	But I wasn't present at the beginning of the session. So I couldn't even rebuild it. Here, I'm rebuilding it this time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9397	You have two options. I suggest you suggest it now or put it as an initiative. Choose from these two options.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9398	Here, let it be an initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9399	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić has needs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9400	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, there is a need for me to respond to this proposal by Mr Belkić, given that I am a member of the Commission. It's not a disputed debate, and I have no opinion that we should not open the debate, but we have a problem with the principle. Since there is a parliamentary commission that works, and there are many parliamentary commissions that sort of take views, and whether we are going to violate these principles that before the commission's work is completed, I can understand this and as a warning, but on the Commission's chairman has entered the hall when Mr Belkić is, so I don't know if he is willing to say his position on this, because what Mr Belkić was talking about is a fact, and the fact is that many interested in that Election Commission have initiated various things, which is also allowed, but the result of this would be that the mandate of the Commission members could last eight, nine or 18 years. The legal provision is at the same time the duration of the term of office of one's own. So count on it. And I think it's all being considered on the Commission and on all sides and it's going in the right direction. I don't think we need to discuss this at Parliament before this procedure is implemented. And to be honest, and I don't have anything four, I just think it's a duplication of work because on that commission everyone's door is open, everyone can warn, instructions a memo, all relevant experts to consult because when you get out of context, this stands, Mr. Belkić quoted correctly, but at the same time you have a second provision that the mandate is clear how long it takes. Can we bring in that the term of office is unlimited and that we can bring him to our exhibition for 15 years? So that's one of the dilemmas, but I think that the Commission is doing it correctly and that, I don't know, and to be honest, I have nothing against the debate, but then in a way, I don't know what to say, I don't know, they took part in this debate, and I think that the top legal experts we've heard have been involved and have come to the conclusion that they need to enter this procedure. I just think that about the warning, and what Mr. Mehmedović was saying, since the SDA started acting oppositionly so they left the Extended College; the opposition has the right to be a member of the Extended College, don't leave it, so you're losing some, some ends there. There's a guaranteed place for you in the opposition.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9401	Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9402	So I need to explain, therefore absolutely no way does my initiative express, or the request for inclusion in the agenda does not express any mistrust with the Commission. She's motivated, as I just said, not to get into a situation because the competition is called, so the procedure is ongoing. In the meantime, elections will be called. If there's a choice, we'll break the law. And I've indicated that we have a problem in the law. On the one hand, clearly prescribed deadlines are: three months before the end of the term of office must be initiated, 30 days before the term of office must be appointed a new man, and at the same time you have a provision that you cannot do so if it is an election period. Therefore, it must be taken into account, when people are named, they must be taken into account to comply with election periods and certain cycles, etc. So my motive is that only this law is respected, nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9403	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9404	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, only briefly related to what Mr. Belkić was talking about. So there's no contradiction in the Electoral Law. The electoral law is clear, he prescribes deadlines that speak of the mandate, he talks about the time when a competition must be called by the end of the mandates and when the appointment must be carried out. And he's saying one more thing: that appointing can't be the moment it starts until the election process is over. And that's not the opposite. And I'm just asking to be respected. So it's possible to call a contest here because the election process didn't start, but I don't think it should be a nomination from the beginning to the end of the election process, because it has direct connections to the integrity of the electoral process, because when we are, so we're the legislator, is it, when we passed that law then we just took care of the integrity of the electoral process and there's no change. And that is why the exception was made to actually end the election process with a procedure and practically extend the mandate by two or three months. That's the problem. 5 And I don’t think we should fall into a trap to make a mistake for two or three months, to question the integrity of the electoral process. And that's why I think this initiative is to hear about it (because the competition is called) which Mr Belkić is talking about in place. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9405	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9406	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for the little delay, but I see the topic is to call a tender for two members of the Serb and Bosniak people's Central Election Commission or the Central Election Commission. So, the CEC's selection and appointment committee had... a meeting, an insight into materials, absolutely, and I don't think there's any legal obstacle to calling a tender for two CEC members. When we talk about calling a competition, not a procedure. What Mr Belkić spoke of does not refer to members of the CEC, which were called by two CEC members, Article 2.15. BiH Election Law. These articles refer to members of municipal election committees. Therefore, those articles that treat only CEC members are Articles 2.4, 2.5, 2.6 and none of these articles have been broken. It is true that there were doubts there in the commission itself, as counterpart Kalabić said, so these people were appointed in 29.6.2005, this law is clear that the mandate lasts seven years. So it is precisely prescribed that the term of office lasts seven years which, in my opinion, is crucial, although these are moments... that we do not elaborate what they were, were some complaints, and in 2006 Parliament confirmed once more these people, meaning they are members of the CEC. I don't think there's any need to put any agenda on it today. Here are the requests, I think within the Secretariat, or the College of Parliament, that it may be manifested. We would be wrong if we did not have a tender procedure, and the tender procedure can be implemented and Parliament is the only one who can decide what to do next. Eventually, the election of new members of the CEC may take place after the elections, if Parliament so decides, if we are already in doubt. And this tender procedure, so it's in accordance with this law. This is the only thing that's possible. And we would have broken this law roughly if we had delayed it for another time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9407	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9408	So, I haven't questioned the tender procedure for a moment, I just warned if it ends, respecting the deadlines, so you have to carry out in accordance with the deadlines of the procedure and you have to make the choice. And that's what's gonna happen to you in election time, that's what I'm talking about. And obviously we're in a different way and we're seeing and we're interpreting these provisions, but neither am I nor you who are doing it. So it is now obvious that there was reason to discuss this and, if nothing, to give our Constitutional Commission, or to give this Parliament an interpretation. It is my intention, therefore, that 6 of this Parliament in no way comes into a situation to break this law so that in a year or two, or half a year, some court etc. Disputes this parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9409	Thank you. The process of authentic interpretation is known where it comes from, from an institution that implements the law. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9410	Well, without a direct will, I get the feeling that we're engaged in an argument and we're clear on that. And my proposal is to refer this initiative to Mr Belkić as soon as the Commission delivers material to Parliament. So you won't be late: the moment it comes before Parliament to bring it, because Mr. Jurišić explained that this must be implemented and that you don't want to influence this either, but the moment it comes, the Commission does its job, you can bring it to Parliament, you can eventually, and then it has to open this one, after all, and it will be the point of the agenda and this debate has to be opened. And that we don't open it before time, but simply when it comes to the agenda and that's how it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9411	Thank you. I'm guessing the motionary won't give up on this. I am concluding the debate and we are going to vote on the only proposed amendment and the completion of the agenda by the honourable MP, Beriz Belkić. The agenda item should be Information on the launch of a public competition for the election and appointment of two members of the Central Election Commission. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 13, "against" 12, "abstained" 11, insufficient entity majority. Are we going to the second round right now? We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 14, "against" 10, "abstained" 10; there are no two-thirds of the votes "against" from any entity. I agree that we have adopted the agenda item Information on the opening of the Public Competition for the selection and appointment of two members of the Central Election Commission. The point will be 22, along with the information we're discussing. I am in charge of our members in the selection and appointment committee that certain information they have on the Commission supplies so that we can discuss this agenda item here, that we have material about it, and that our services ask someone from the Central Election Commission, preferably the President, to come to this item on the agenda. We find that the 26th House session has the next 7 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 25th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-12, of 11.1.2012 (first reading); 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in BiH institutions, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1212, of 26.3.2012 (first reading); 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Single Parent Code, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1312, of 3.4.2012 (first reading); 6. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of holocausts, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity, legislators Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, Law No 01-02-1-1611, of 5.9.2011 – a delayed debate at the 25th session, held on 29.3.2012, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigrants, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 7. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, legislators Drago Kalabić and Darko Babalj, Law No 01-02-1-712, of 1.2.2012, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 8. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, MPs Drago Kalabić and Darko Babalj, Law No 01-02-1-612, of 1.2.2012, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 9. Report by the College on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs, Law No 01,02-02-1-2811, of 29.12.2011 (second reading); 10. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the Amendments and Supplements Act of the Law on the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, MEP Ismet Dervoz, Law No 01-02-1-412, since 19.1.2012 (first reading); 11. The Annual Report on Discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 on Human Rights Institution of BiH, issue 01.02-12-34512, of 12.3.2012 - a delayed debate at the 25th session, held on 29.3.2012; 12. Report on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2005-2010, material of the Council of Ministers of BiH, No 01,02-50-19-8912, since 19.1.2012; 13. Report on the Agency for Postal Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Financial Report 2011, material No 01,02-50-19-46712, of 4.4.2012; 14. Report on the work of the BiH Export and Credit Export Agency for 2011, material of the BiH Export and Credit Agency, No 01,02-50-19-46812, of 4.4.2012; 15. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović to discuss Report 8 on the impact review on the theme "Inhabitation of returnees", material of the BiH Institution Audit Office, No. 014-16-1-27812, of 27.2.2012; 16. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on the initiative of MEP Mirsad Đugum from the 16th session of the House of Representatives, held on 22.12.2011, which reads "That the state parliament is forming a commission with the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the health ministries of the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska in the short term to look at legal opportunities and real needs for the opening of special hospitals that would provide services of tertiary health care and with the aim of treating the disease currently being treated abroad, e.g. Childhood cardiosurgery, bone marrow transplants, liver transplants, kidneys, treatment of certain forms of cancer, etc. These institutions would be state-level and would serve to treat all BiH citizens’; 17. The Kolegijum's report on the effort to reach agreement on the initiative of MP Nermine Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic from the 23rd session of the House of Representatives, held in 16.2.2012, which reads "I propose that an interresor working group be formed to prepare a law on political parties in BiH, i.e. the law on political organisations in BiH. I propose that the deadline for preparing and sending to the parliamentary procedure of the political parties law be 30.4.2012’; The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on Ismete Dervoz's initiative from the 23rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 16.2.2012, which reads "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I refer the initiative to the colleges of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses, requiring them to initiate a decision that will ensure that discrimination is stopped and equality is achieved in language in relation to the persons of the female used in communication, internal acts and materials sent to other institutions in the country and abroad, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and all other situations that so require.’; A statement on MPs' initiative, Božo Ljubić, from the 15th session of the House of Representatives, held on 8.11.2011, which reads "I propose that both houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly conduct a debate on BiH's foreign policy orientation. The foreign policy orientation of BiH is the most important issue of state policy for us" 20. A statement on the initiative of MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović from the 24th session of the House of Representatives, held on 15.3.2012, which reads "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, I am launching an initiative to hold a House of Representatives' session on the subject of 'The Status of Agriculture in BiH'; 21. A statement on MP Zijad Jagodić's initiative from the 24th session of the House of Representatives, held on 15.3.2012, which reads "As an MP of this Parliament, I received a letter from a military lawyer from the Pentagon, Mr Šon Glejson, in which he asked me for my vote and help in liberating Tariq Mahood Ahmed Al-Sawah-Sawah, father of two Bosnian-Herzegovic children living in Zenica, Amira and Sare. In fact, Mr. Sawah has been in Gvantanamo prison for 10 years in Cuba, and he has been burdened with co-operation with Al-Qaeda, but so far without any evidence and judicial debates on the matter. On this occasion, I urge the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to take a position on this issue and on the usual way to adequately respond to Mr. Glejson, the 9th Pentagon military attorney, for the assistance and support of Ahmed Savah and Amira and Sara, as our citizens’; 22. Information on the launch of the Public Advert for the selection and appointment of two members of the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Grant Agreement under the IPA 2009 State Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina – Improving the infrastructure of the regional transport network base in BiH – rail transport, between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Unicredit Bank Austria AG – Project "Building of sewers and water supplies in the municipality of Celic"; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Finance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the cross-border programme of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Serbia under the IPA component of cross-border co-operation for 2010; 26. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Finance between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the cross-border programme of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Montenegro under the IPA component of cross-border co-operation for 2010; 27. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the cross-border programme Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA cross-border co-operation component for 2010; 28. Giving consent to the ratification of the Security Co-operation Centre Agreement – RACVIAC; 29. Giving consent to the ratification of the Supplement of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on Bosnia and Herzegovina's cross-border programme – Serbia under the IPA component of cross-border co-operation for 2008; 30. Giving consent to the ratification of the Supplement of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the 2008 cross-border programme of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Montenegro under the IPA component of cross-border co-operation; 31. Giving consent to the ratification of the Supplement of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the cross-border programme Croatia – Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA component of cross-border co-operation for 2008; 32. Giving consent to the ratification of the Supplement of the Financial Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on a programme to finance Bosnia and Herzegovina's participation in the ERDF's transnational European territorial co-operation programmes "South East Europe" and "Meditirane" under the IPA's cross-border co-operation component for 2008; 33. Giving consent to the ratification of the 2008 Completion of the Financial Agreement of the Horizontal Nuclear Safety Programme and radiation protection under the 2008 Instrument, concluded between the Commission of the European Communities and Bosnia and Herzegovina, on 28 July 2009; 10 34. Giving consent to ratification of the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Serbia and the European Investment Bank – Emergency aid in the event of flooding and prevention – A; 35. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan, Financing and Project Treaty between KfW, Frankfurt in May, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury (loan) and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance and Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska, and JP Elektroprivreda BiH d.d. Sarajevo (EPBiH) and JP Elektroprivreda Croatian Community of Herceg Bosnia d.d. Mostar (EPHZHB) and JP Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska d.d. Trebinje (EPRS) for 17,000,000.00 euros – SCADMSOMS at the distribution level; 36. Giving consent to the ratification of Amendment No 1 to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank on 26 November 2009 in Sarajevo – Credit IRBS for small and medium-sized enterprises (FI 25.254); 37. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of Liechtenstein on the establishment of a migration partnership between Bosnia and Herzegovina and Liechtenstein; 38. Giving consent to ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Communications and Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Telecommunications of Montenegro and the Ministry of Public Works and Transport of the Republic of Albania for the reconstruction and modernisation of the Sarajevo-Pogorica-Tirana road. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 25th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9415	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, guests, the media, I welcome you all together. What I am particularly pleased about is that I received a response from Posavina County related to the initiative, i.e. the question: 'What are they doing in the field of tourism?' I am pleased with their response, as well as with the response of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees on the Law on Immigrantism and Activities in the field. I'm also happy and grateful with their answer. However, what I am not pleased with is... on my parliamentary question that I have asked the State Border Service and its director. However, according to the answer, they argue that they... court rulings concerning certain employees, commanding some police stations, where court rulings are just as high and second-degreed in his favour, so the state border service, in which Director Vinko Dumančić, answers that they cannot comply with these judgments and that they believe they are right. I really think this is what we have to deal with, and I think, based on this answer, I'm going to be forced to run some new moves in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9416	Thank you. First deputy chairman, distinguished colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9417	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, so after three repeated issues concerning the same problem, which is discrimination against workers of Serbian and Croatian nationality in the dedicated industry "Igman" Konjic, I have received an answer now to say that I am satisfied. 12 Namely, the resolution ministry sent the commission to the company, spoke to the corporate administration, spoke with the workers who petitioned me. And truly, for 10 workers, there's no work experience attached. There is a text and an explanation of why it did not happen, but for me it is most important, so paragraphs 2 and 3 from below on page 2 that say: 'The director of the Society Mr. Džahid Muratbegović said there is no reason for this problem for 10 employees not to be solved immediately if there is a legal basis for this.' Representatives of the Federal Ministry of Energy, Mining and Industry, as a resolute ministry, tasked the Society's Administration to try to find a solution to this problem in cooperation with the Federal Bureau of PIO/MIO and promised to also contact the Federal Institute of PIO/MIO in order to help solve this problem, which the Society's administration welcomed and agreed to accept any legal solution it has done so far. Therefore, I can only say that I will follow the solution to this problem and if it is necessary to react again here to Parliament, but I hope that there will be no need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9418	Thank you. No more comments reported. We move on to b) New MPs' questions I call on MEPs to sign up. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, as the fastest. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9419	Dear chairman, distinguished guests, fellow Members of Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, well, every year I ask this question, here to see what happens this year. So, I direct the question to the Ministry of Finance to provide me with the answer: 'How much in 2010 and 2011 was paid out of the BiH budget and to whom, in the name of disputes that were lost by BiH institutions before the Court of Justice and other paved institutions, mainly by the Prosecutor's Office, thanks to unwitting work and manufactured indictments, where they illegally detained people and later verified it as a mistake, it is the easiest thing to say. But the mistake was not because the money from the BiH budget had to be paid to these people. It's about these litigation disputes. There are labour disputes, and I'm not going to name anyone individually until I get their answer. But I ask the key question: What is this item from which these funds are paid? What did the BiH Attorney General do? And what did other competent institutions do to prevent damage to the BiH budget?" Thank you very much. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9420	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9421	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear ladies and gentlemen, representatives, respected members of the Council of Ministers, we have all been guests lately, the entire public has been informed by means of public information that there are serious doubts about the illegal availability of budget funds intended to promote agriculture in the Federation of BiH. The issue goes to the Federation of BiH and the Prosecutor's Office, which reads: "Is this fact known to the prosecutions and do they have any knowledge of the above suspicions, and are the same doubts the subject of any investigation by the competent prosecutors?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9422	Thank you. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9423	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Council of Ministers, I am particularly addressing this left-hand side in the hope that filling the place on this side is a good sign that this parliament will enjoy more respect than we had in the previous period. I believe it will not only be filled today, that at the next sessions your response will be so much. Here, let me present one initiative and one parliamentary question. 'In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, I refer to the initiative to discuss both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly on the subject: Bosnia and Herzegovina and NATO integration. The debate on this topic is on the basis of written material prepared within three months of the adoption of this initiative by the Council of Ministers, which should include inter alia answers to the following questions: 1. Arguments for and against NATO; 2. What does joining NATO mean in military and political terms for BiH?; 3. How much would BiH cost to join NATO and how much possibly military neutrality?; 4. Is it even possible to reach a political agreement on the size and structure of the future Armed Forces as a prerequisite for making an irrelevant defence review, what would the future Armed Forces be, and what would be their structure?; 5. Are BiH's ambitions to join NATO more quickly in direct contrast with the current situation in the Armed Forces, but also the country's economic situation?; 6. In what way and from which sources BiH intends to invest in modernising the Armed Forces, but also run huge costs for BiH troops' participation in NATO missions and 147. In order for NATO integration to reflect the negative vote of RS citizens in a referendum on BiH's NATO entry, would a country in which nearly half of the population in the referendum plead against NATO entry become a credible member of NATO? So, given that the newspaper is now showing up these days that BiH will be a NATO member in 2014, I don't think there's a debate on this issue at any level, that the presidency is waiting to do something about the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers is waiting for an initiative from someone. Here, therefore, I have made this initiative and I hope that this issue can finally be addressed in the Parliamentary Assembly." And a brief question for the Council of Ministers, also: "What does the Council of Ministers intend to take on the plan to rationalise the labour force in BiH institutions? When will the Council of Ministers form an analysis of the efficiency of BiH institutions with a proposal for measures to resolve inefficient institutions that have become their own purpose, and which are spending huge financial resources? And how does the Council of Ministers of BiH plan to stop further increase of administration through new employment in BiH institutions?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9424	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9425	Thank you, Your Honor. Members of the Council, colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I would like to ask one parliamentary question, first of all, that in the last few years we have an enormous import of all goods, which we could objectively produce on our market, and the goods for which significant resources are allocated, and here we have a steady growth in the rate of unemployment. My parliamentary question is to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH: 'I came to the data that the foreign trade of BiH in the framework of the Group of Products of Drinks, including alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, beer and water, this data says that the import of drinks to BiH in 2009 was 320.3 million, then 299,77 million KM in 2010, and finally, in 2011, 311,03 million KM, while on the other hand, exports from BiH in 2009 amounted to 30.88 million, in 2010 33.4, in 2011 40.4 million. It is particularly interesting that only imports of beer in 2010 to BiH amounted to 130 million KM in 2011 136. The specific question is: What the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations is doing and what it will do, of course, in collaboration with other competent institutions, primarily in the light of the implementation of the CEFTA Agreement and the Decision on the Protection of Domestic Production, from excessive imports in order to ensure that this coverage of imports from 19% of exports is corrected and that imports of all types of beverages are adequately controlled in BiH in order to protect and support domestic producers." I'm looking for an answer in writing. Thank you. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9426	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9427	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, media representatives, I welcome you all together. I have two parliamentary questions. The first is for the Council of Ministers of BiH: "What can the Council of Ministers do to protect the assets of the Bosnian-Herzegovic enterprises in the former Yugoslav republics, which has not been returned to these companies so far, nor does the state of BiH benefit from this property? What is the total value of this property and does the Council of Ministers plan to do what to address this problem?" A shorter explanation. So this is a very valuable property left to other countries, while BiH has dealt with similar requirements for the return of the assets of other countries' businesses very quickly. I will list here only one of the numerous examples of Agromerac's assets in Belgrade, whose backbone is the Kođe shopping centre in Belgrade. The property of this company is worth more than 3m euros. It is inconceivable that a country whose economy in ruins is simply overcoming these and similar issues. Is it not better to return this property, even if it is necessary to sell and use the money from the sale to resuscitate the company whose property it is? It's a question that is self-inflicted in this case. The second question is also for the Council of Ministers of BiH, and it says: "What can the Council of Ministers of BiH do to resolve the status of BiH citizens living in countries in the environment and who feel that they are part of this country. I will only give an example of the Bosnian-Herzegovina community in Albania, which numbers several thousand BiH-born citizens, which are the heritage of the Bosnian-Herzegovina culture and tradition, and their position is much worse than the other minorities in the country. A similar fate is naturally experienced by citizens in other countries of the near environment. So, what can the Council of Ministers and plans to do about this issue? And please answer in writing." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9428	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9429	Mr. Vice-President, colleagues and fellow Members, honourable ministers and guests, my question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers, or the Directorate for Economic Planning. It reads: 16 'What has the Economic Planning Directorate done in the field of monitoring, and in particular the implementation of medium- and long-term development strategies on an annual basis, as a permanent body in the field of... development planning? How does the Directorate intend to speed up the fulfilment of the conditions that the country must meet on the road to EU accession?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9430	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9431	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. I have eight parliamentary questions for the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Federation and the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office. But for a short period of time, I'm not going to read those questions, I'm just going to deliver them. However, I also have one parliamentary initiative that is related to today's agenda item, which refers to the Export-Credit Agency Report, IGA, so during the debate I will explain the above-mentioned parliamentary initiative, but I would only read it this time. So: 'In accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, I urge the Council of Ministers to prepare amendments and amendments to the Export and Credit Agency Act in order to authorise IGA to approve export contracts on behalf of and for the account of the BiH State." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9432	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9433	Thank you. I have two parliamentary initiatives for today. One refers to the introduction of a direct transfer of the House of Representatives meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly, which explains that this is in accordance with the BHRT Act, as well as the role of BHRT itself. This would satisfy the widest public as well as the removed dilemma that public broadcasters were, to the most extent, politically colored, publishing only what they want to see and promote, rather than actual events during parliamentary sessions. The initiative at the BiH House of Representatives is supported by the fact that public broadcasters and neighbouring countries are directly transferring meetings of the state parliament. 17 The second parliamentary initiative of the House of Representatives refers to the fact that the state should purchase surplus agricultural products from our farmers. Given that at this moment, both entities have significant quantities of surpluses of agricultural products, primarily potatoes, onions, beans, etc., which are completely in the dilemma of whether or not farmers produce these cultures at all, given that these types of vegetables, as well as some others, are measured in thousands of tonnes at importing to BiH, are several times larger than our exports, which is why I find such imports inadmissible. I appreciate this initiative as very urgent and necessary for the urgency of this Parliament and of the Council of Ministers, i.e. I propose that an entity prime ministers meeting be held at the country level with their ministers, as well as representatives of the Brcko District authorities, and in order to buy surplus agricultural products from farmers urgently. This should give the country, or entities, instead of subsidies to the producer an appropriate subsidy to the end-user, i.e. the buyer of the goods, thereby significantly reducing the imports of the same products, which is the key objective of this initiative. In addition to this, I only delivered a scheme of nine key agricultural products where it is visible, per year, which is imports and exports in thousands of tonnes, and I certainly believe that it is about 10% on our export side and nine times more exports in all cultures. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9434	Thank you. The next is a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9435	Thank you, Chairman. I have one question for the Council of Ministers and the College of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and the question is: 'Do you know whether and if you intend to resolve the procedural stalemate relating to the Amendment to the Constitution of BiH relating to Article IX position 2 and the provision is deleted in substance: The compensation for persons performing functions in BiH institutions cannot be reduced during the term of office. This initiative, or amendment, is from 2005, and is proposed by the Council of Ministers. Why a question like this? The initiative was designed to remove a constitutional obstacle to reducing salaries and receiving elected and appointed officials in BiH's legislative and executive power. In addition to this question, I am also delivering the Council of Ministers' Opinion of 8.9.2009, which was given to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, or the House of Representatives, on Amendment II's proposal. The Constitution of BiH, which contains, as can be seen from the Council of Ministers in its meeting in 2002-2006, proposed amandman I., which deleted Article 2 of the Constitution of BiH and adopted in the procedure Parliament's House of Representatives at its session on 31.8th adoption of the two-thirds majority of the Amendment in both readings, and at its session of 5.10.2005, the House of Ministers adopted the amendment, with the conclusion that the House of Nations would hold a second reading debate when the Council of Ministers delivered the draft Law on Salaries. However, the debate in the second reading and declaration of the House of Peoples on this amendment has not been conducted in the second reading until today. I would especially like to emphasise that, in the meantime, 18 initiating that this procedure ends, the Party for BiH MPs' club also delivered in the procedure in the previous session... The amendment to the BiH Constitution, for which the Council of Ministers was manifested by this opinion to the Parliamentary Assembly. So we are initiating the end of the procedure concerning amendments to the Constitution, i.e. erasing Article IX position 2, that is, a provision that says that compensation for persons performing functions in BiH institutions cannot be reduced during their term of office. This would also open the space for possible legislative initiatives by individual MPs, as has recently been done by counterpart Šemso Mehmedović, and before by other MPs, to be put in the process with constitutional reasoning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9436	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9437	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am renewing an old question raised in early September of the previous year, and new events have driven me to restore it, because I have not yet received an answer to my parliamentary question addressed to the Federation government and to the Vlada of the zeničko's Doboi Canton. It's a famous project for all of you here, who know very well about this project, it's about Banja "Tičići". By building Corridor 5c and that vision of the Banjska spa for the poor, as someone called it, you all remember very well, you were going down the road between Kakanja and Zenica and you saw that during the summer months, practically from all over BiH and the poor part of our people found this possibility of curing some diseases, because it is not only warm springs but also healing sources. The Banja "Tičići" project stands in drawers, I don't know who, and that's why I'm asking this parliamentary question and again referred to the government of the Federation of BiH and the government of the Women's-Doboj canton, means to their economy ministry that should deal with it. I've made it a little stronger, I've added a few more expertises that have been done lately, especially by Hungarian experts who have come and been amazed by the size and captage of that source, as well as by the hot water that gives incredible over 60 degrees Celsius, which is nonses. And in support of such an opinion, I think it's really time for this project to be removed from the drawers, to stop worrying about some of the soils that seem to be waiting to divide the land that belongs to these capital sources. And the construction of the Tarsa Corridor 5c automatically achieves the possibility of a real start of the construction of Banja "Tičići" and that complex which can well and very effectively use this warm water for different purposes, whose part here is practically paraphrasing, and add this to my parliamentary question. That is why I am addressing the Government of the Federation and the Government of the ZE-DO Canton to really take this project seriously into consideration, which is not only important for the area of Kakanj and ZE-DO Canton, but also for the Federation and BiH, if this is used wisely. Thank you very much. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9438	Thank you. The next is Commissioner Nermina Ćemalović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9439	Dear Chairman, allow me to welcome all present. For today's session, I have one parliamentary question and one initiative. The parliamentary question is addressed to the Council of Ministers: 'Does the Council of Ministers in its 2012 work programme have planned to prepare and put into parliamentary procedure the amendment and addition of the Law on Sport in BiH and the Law on Volunteering in BiH, which was rejected at the 80th session of the House of Representatives, held on 30.6.2010? The immediate cause for this issue is the initiative of the BiH Olympic Committee and the local volunteer service network in BiH." I refer the initiative to the College of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes, and it says: 'The requirement to form a commission in front of the state parliament which would, with the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the health ministries of both entities and Brcko District, in the shortest possible time, consider the possibility of drawing up a proposal for a transplant law and the establishment of a donor network in BiH. The immediate cause for this initiative is the demands of the Association of Persons with Disabilities, Students and the need for thousands of patients waiting for a transplant. I note that over 3,000 are renal patients on haemodialysis who also expect the possibility of transplants. The adoption of this law would allow for inclusion in Eurotransplant. I demand a review of the initiative in writing, as well as of the parliamentary question." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9440	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9441	Mr. Chairman. I'm using the right to deliver the Joint College initiative in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9442	Thank you. Next is Honourable representative Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9443	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to ask the following question that would complement my earlier question about higher education: 20 '1. What about the review of private universities carried out by the Commission of the Council for the Development and Quality Assessment of Higher Educational Institutions in RS? What has the government done about private higher education institutions that do not meet the conditions of the Law on Higher Education of the Republic of Slovenia and which did not meet the conditions when they were set up, and have been granted permits by the competent ministry? 2. Will the BiH institutions carry out an audit of the status of separate lives that many civil servants have illegally? I have reliable information that only 12 officials at Banja Luka Center enjoy this right and that they have apartments and houses, since it is spoken and that we have here today a proposal to cut wages etc. I think there are so many reserves in the use of budget funds used in an illegal way that almost no civil servant in joint institutions needs to cut salaries. So I think there are also many illegalities in this segment. So I don't know if you get me. This is just an example, reliable information that 12 state officials in the Banja Luka Intelligence Service are using this right, and has no right, it is probably the two-digit number in BiH institutions." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9444	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9445	Mr. Chairman, I had no intention of asking a parliamentary question today, but here is the foreign trade and economic relations minister, Mr. Mirko Šarović, and I use his presence to ask this question. I'm afraid any waiting in the asking and this question can be a problem. It concerns Croatia's entry into the EU, the consequences of which BiH will suffer and specifically phytosanitary border crossings, two border crossings are being discussed. I think that is not enough for the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy and for BiH's relations with the EU. I will formulate a question for the Council of Ministers, so: What is it planning to do on this plan, what is it doing and what is it planning to do to ensure a sufficient number of these crossings? And I would take advantage of the presence of Minister Šarović today and ask him here at the pay phone what he can say at the moment in response to this question. Here, that's it, and so the question will be in writing for the Council of Ministers, and today it's oral here, so for the present minister to give us an oral answer to the session of what he has to say on the subject. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9446	Thank you. So that's how we exhausted point 2. MPs' questions/representative questions. I'm taking the opportunity to call the Honorable Minister here. If he wants to, he can answer now. Here you go. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9447	Thank you. Dear Members, I am taking the opportunity to welcome you all and, if possible in this short time, give basic information on the issue that was formulated by the honourable MP Džaferović. As you know, this critical moment will take place on 31.12. this year, means before the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU in 1.7.2013. Why? Because the Republic of Croatia will have a new regime at the border with non-EU neighbours to set up six months before Croatia's official entry into the EU. So time for certain things, so when it comes to border crossings, we have very little, I would say, about seven, eight months. As I assume, you know, BiH has negotiated two BIPs with the EU and Croatia as the other side, which is the other side of the EU and Croatia, i.e. two border crossings over which it will be able to traffic goods of plant and animal origin. So, I guess, plant and animal origin. The Bosnian-Herzegovina institutions have agreed their position over the past months, and it says that given the length of the border with the Republic of Croatia over 1,000 km, these two border crossings are little, especially given that at a much smaller border with Hungary, Croatia has more so-called. BIPs and that only two border crossings through which this type of goods can be transported are in any case complicated by traffic, i.e. trade with the neighbouring country, and it collects traffic for BiH producers, especially considering that Croatia is one of the most important, if not the most important, external trade partner of BiH when it comes to both exports and when it comes to imports of goods. I must also point out that when it comes to crossings and borders, this ministry is not, whose head I am, I mean the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, it is not only competent and that this issue falls within the competence of several BiH institutions. It means: both the Councils of Ministers, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and the Ministry of Security, etc., etc. And in line with numerous requirements and expectations, in particular businesses, they started negotiations with the neighbour, i.e. the EU, to increase the number of crossings through which goods may be traded, as I said, of plant and animal origin. And in that sense, and there are certain indications that give us the right to be optimistic, especially given the fact that the EU has invested over 40m euros over the past two, three, four years at most from its funds in the equipment of the crossings to BiH. I think it is five crossings that could meet EU standards and that it is a shame that these crossings cannot be trafficked in the next period on goods that I've been talking about. The last meeting was held earlier, I think, three or four days ago, where a negotiating team was formed in front of BiH and... a representative of the foreign trade and economic relations ministry. There are serious indications now, I'd say it means serious, I wouldn't perhaps use another term and I couldn't be quite precise, but there are serious indications that BiH could get at least one more, at least one more crossing over which it could cross over the goods of plant and animal origin, and you'll be informed about it in the coming days, or weeks. And when it comes to phytosanitary protection, so I'm making that clear now, means only about the goods of plant origin, there's a more favourable situation because there's a greater willingness to provide more transitions to BiH through which the goods, or food, can cross, mean only plant origin. Because these inspection controls are somewhat easier and less demanding than animal food. I think that BiH's delegation will probably continue the talks in the coming period and that in this sense we might expect a favourable outcome. 22 Here I think that's quite enough. If there's any more details, I'm here and I can take them out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9448	I thank the ministers. Dear Ambassador, is that okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9449	Just to thank you for the... correct answer, it's even wider than I've asked, and I would really ask that this issue be paid attention both through the Ministry and through the Council of Ministers, so here I am now publicly speaking here, when it comes to the border crossing of Izacic at Bihac. So it should not remain to be a border crossing that has the regime it now has. I'm asking you to take care of this. Thank you again for this answer, and the question in writing goes to the Council of Ministers as you have actually said in your reply, because, as I would say, it takes a multi-institutional approach here, so access to the entire Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9450	I thank and conclude the debate. Moving to the third item of the agenda: Ad. 3. Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act (first reading) The Council of Ministers delivered this law in 11.1.2012. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its Opinion on the Constitutional basis on 31.1. and delivered its Opinion on the principles of the Proposal for a Law on 17.4.2012 by the competent Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić answered first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9452	Thank you very much. Let me before I say anything about the principles of the bill's proposal to solve a procedural question and see if we can talk later about what's called the principles of the Customs Tariff Bill. 23 So I have one dilemma. So we got a proposal for a customs tariff law that doesn't contain a customs tariff. We have received the opinion of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Administration, which states that the Customs Tariff Law proposal needs to be withdrawn from the procedure because it lacks a customs tariff which is its integral part. And the Management Board proposes that a new draft customs tariff law be referred to in the procedure at the end of 2012 and... which would apply from 1.1.2013 and is the chair of the Management Board of Dr. Nikola Špirić. After that, we have a position, i.e. the Opinion on the principles of the proposed law of the competent commission, which states that the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs unanimously accepted the principles of the proposal for a customs tariff law. And as the last argument concerning all this cohesion, I would like to state the letter that the Directorate for indirect taxation has sent to both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly in 2010 signed by former Minister Vrankić, who is sitting here with us, where among other things it is 'necessary to stress and bear in mind that the Management Board of the Indirect Taxation Board is the only one authorised to establish policy proposals on indirect taxation for implementation throughout BiH, in accordance with the Law on the Indirect Taxation System of BiH, the "Official List" and this, respectively, is the only one authorised to give an opinion on the amendments to the law in that area, if proposed by other applicants. Knowing that this law has been dated since 11.1.2012, so this is before the Council of Ministers' election, I suppose there is some collegiation and that the new minister has failed to reach agreement, namely to co-ordinate the agreement on this law with the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board, so I think that, before the debate begins on the principle of this law, there should be some information about these misunderstandings. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9453	Thank you. Mr. Resolute Minister. Šarović wants to make introductory remarks about the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9454	Thank you, Chairman, and honourable MPs. Here, it turns out that I'm answering again now, after this parliamentary question, and I think we need to clarify some things at the very beginning, especially given that we're talking about principles here, and that things at some other stage, in detail, in the amendment phase, we might be discussing the quality of certain proposals themselves. You have noticed well, so this text has been established by the Council of Ministers in the previous session and referred to the parliamentary procedure, and otherwise it is a law that is in line with the EU in one continuity, starting in 1998, and has undergone appropriate changes or additions or technical improvements almost every year. And we are obliged to comply with this law in negotiations with the EU and in accordance with the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, adapt to European legislation and changes in customs and customs tariffs and deliver it to the relevant parliamentary procedure. And besides, we saw from the parliamentary issues 5 minutes ago, 10 minutes ago, there were one but perhaps more issues concerning support for domestic production and what we do to protect domestic production, especially when it comes to the implications of Croatia's soon entry into the EU. I want to point out that this law is on the so-called so-called law. List E, which means our obligation, the obligation to make it in a procedure, I would say in reasonable time, to comply with EU legislation. 24 Now, a few more things I would like to say that this text, which is before you, has been given a positive opinion by the Office for Law, the Directorate for European Integration, which takes care of compliance with EU directives, the Chamber of Commerce, the Federation of BiH and the Brcko District and the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH, and that they have welcomed the specific measures contained in this law. The opinion was also given by the Directorate for indirect taxation, in particular with the observation on, in my opinion, the technical part, meaning the tariffs, and that the proposal that they made to withdraw this law and to practically enter into the amendments and supplements in 2013 is too long, and I am really expressing my position now: I think that in the second stage, the amendment phase can also be removed and the questions treated by the Directorate for indirect taxation, because it is whether or not the tariff is incorporated and not in this text, and that it is relievable, also respecting the comments of the Directorate for indirect taxation. Here, perhaps this will come especially in this second phase of the debate, there is no indication of possible financial indicators, which I suppose is crucial and important when we speak or something that is very important when we talk about this law, because this is a procedural law and these issues mean we cannot now specify or treat it. So he only opens up certain possibilities. Perhaps it is also good to say that it is logical of some ten members to be the most interesting member of the 2nd law, which, in my opinion, is the first protection measure for the BiH economy, which is: temporary suspensions, application of the rate reduction and the provisional tariff quota. So these are new measures that function in the needs of the economy, in its developmental and protective area. These measures came also on the basis of numerous requirements that came from the chambers I counted, so I would say both MPs and MP clubs and individually from businesses across BiH. I must point out that these safeguards are also embedded in the regulations of all CEFTA countries, which is very important. So, our neighbours who trade with us, when we export to Serbia or Croatia, and so that exports, or imports to their country, are made excessive or that damage to their economy, they are more quickly and better for a month or two days, taking appropriate measures to warn them, and we were obviously EL Dorado who could not, or there was no precise legal basis, law or perhaps some lower legal act that would allow it. And you remember the different debates, the peri-petia, so I'd say scandals, the previous years over certain issues in this area that have come both to this House of Parliament and to the Council of Ministers. In the negotiations that followed in the preparation of this law, the EU eventually agreed to install these measures into this law, with the final powers and actions of the ministers at the request of one of the stakeholders. Whether we've guessed or not, you're going to say, of course, especially in phase two, whether something needs to be improved or otherwise solved. I allow it to be possible, after all, that's the law that you're going to end up here... But I also felt that this might be a key question: the opinion of the Office for indirect taxation means I mean basic commitment, i.e. the essence of this ministry is to propose a law or propose amendments and amendments to the law and that... are the powers given to it by the relevant acts of BiH, and you are the ones who adopt it, and the Directorate for indirect taxation can give its opinion and it should implement that law. Here, so much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9455	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9456	So it's not in the classic sense but I have no other way than we have two ways to get out of this situation. One is to postpone the plea without in the meantime making a deal with the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board and that we do not have two different attitudes. Never before has this Parliament since the establishment of the Directorate for indirect taxation and its Management Board has not given consent to the laws... if the opinion of the Board was negative. That's one thing. And secondly, we have the opportunity to postpone and adopt a conclusion saying: 'To oblige the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to submit a proposal for a customs tariff at the latest until the conclusion of the amendment phase which would be an integral part of the Customs Tariff Law proposal. So we have to get a tariff, one minute we have to get a tariff, so we have to decide what we're going to do with it." _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9457	... more MPs and you'll finally get your word. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9458	Thank you, Chairman. I was just about to suggest that possibly a resolute minister should address himself, to address perhaps before all discussions, including the discussion of my colleague, Majkić, or after the debate of the MPs, but here may be an opportunity to show off. I am particularly pleased to see Mr. Šarović, Minister Šarović, and his assistant, Mr. Hajrudin Varešanović, who is a resolute assistant for customs and customs tariffs, etc. And there's also probably going to be a chance that he might be a little more involved in the next period by removing some of the dilemmas that one part of it was already talking about, and here I'm going to draw attention to some more. I have to mention that you're all ready, if you insist on customs tariffs, to get a large material, a very large material, so here's what might be better for the Ministry to manifest itself according to the resolution commission in electronic form, maybe, or one copy in the hard version, whoever's interested in seeing it there, to reduce our experiences a little bit, because we're all going to be covered in paper because the tariff is huge. Secondly, I would also like to mention that I may be... someone who understands this matter a little bit better and is aware that there is a need for the tariff to be harmonised, especially with the single nomenclature, that there are EU rules and rules stemming from the obligation, that is, the obligations of BiH arising from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, and, in particular, in the next period to come for BiH. And also according to the ouses that we are, even though we are not a member of the WTO, still obliged to obey as rules of the world trade system. However, I want to draw your attention, especially to the MPs, to a few things. First, the customs tariff is a unique 26 document, is that right, Mr. Varešanović, I know you know that well? Here in Article 2 of this Act, i.e. the bill's proposal or draft proposal, I no longer know what this is, it is said that the customs tariff covers: the nomenclature..., customs rates, preferential, temporary suspensions which the minister had just spoken of and other measures provided for in the BiH regulations, although not listed what other measures were. So this is a unique customs tariff containing these five elements. Now look further in Article 5, he says: 'The powers of the customs tariff adoption process', you must know that all MPs here for a), c) and d) are the competent Council of Ministers, and for the rest the Parliamentary Assembly is responsible, and the tariff is unique. I know that one of the successful countries that went very quickly through adapting their legislation to European legislation, such as Slovakia, which has transferred one part of the legislative powers to the government and subsequently confirmed them in the Parliamentary Assembly. If this is the beginning of that practice, I will greet her, but then this law can't be read like this, because the customs tariff is unique. I am so surprised that the Constitutional Commission was manifested in the way it was manifested in the Opinion that was delivered to us all. I do not dispute that this may be necessary, and for the speed of adaptation, flexibility etc., but we cannot treat a single customs tariff in such a way as the formulations in this document have been delivered to us. I speak to you, although I know this was written before your term, Mr. Šarović. Secondly, if this text really deserved retouch, I was even surprised that, let's say, the Legislative Office gave a positive opinion as you said it. They may have handled some other criteria, but please pay attention: Article 1. The Customs Tariff Act is being established, so I'm going to skip a little bit of a customs tariff with a view to meeting the customs tariff needs. If this is a good formulation, if I am wrong, correct me, please, look further, says, 'Court tariff', in Article 4, 'Includes all the information required to meet the objectives of this law.' And you've seen the purpose of this law. Furthermore, it is said, in Article 5, this is why I was surprised by the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, Article 5(2) 'that the tariff in Article 2(2), etc. This law is based on a draft proposal prepared by the Ministry." Are there legal proposals in our system? If there is a correct me, I first hear it exists. And then he says that these documents, or regulations, are adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly. We are honored as Parliament's Assembly and regulations to amend and supplement customs rates for countries that are not members of the World Trade Organisation, and then says that this tariff is adopted on an annual basis. Eh, please, Article 6 says: "The draft tariff proposal is delivered to the Directorate for indirect taxation which is required to deliver an opinion." I must tell you here that, in view of how the Parliamentary Assembly is excluded from the part of this law, from the part of the customs tariff that is unique, powers have been transferred to the Directorate for indirect taxation, without whose opinion within a certain period of time the ministry, i.e. the tariff, is, in an ugly way, not a dot. And then you have, you say, "Article 7. Competences for interpreting the Law: The Ministry is responsible for interpretation and explanation.' This is a newspaper in our legislation, because the interpretation of the law is given by whoever brought it. Will this Parliamentary Assembly pass this law or not? The Ministry may prepare a proposal for this interpretation, but the interpretation of the law gives and each law gives legislator. So Article 7 is completely contradictory of our legal system. And here's what else is being introduced: 'Article 8. The tariff and any amendments and additions to customs tariffs will be published in accordance with the law in "The Official Messenger of BiH". Have you heard of this paper? I don’t know any law that says that the law will be published in accordance with the law in the “Official Messenger. ” I only know that the law comes into force for eight days, or how many days after its publication in 27 “The Official Messenger”. What is, I mean, what is the essence of these formulations that our legal system doesn't know? I know that here were hired and experts from abroad, that there are new needs to bring customs tariffs into line, I will now return to the beginning, but at least we need to bring this text in line with our legal system. And, since we're talking about principles today, I'm asking you that even in the principles of this thing we don't support, not to vote against ourselves, against our legal system, not to vote against. I don't argue that this should be done urgently, but he thinks he deserves to really make this retouch one, or one effort. It would be good if it were done before putting this item on the agenda, but if there is something that can be done, perhaps, or the competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, the Constitutional Commission, etc. to correct it, regardless of the customs tariff now. But like this, these kinds of formulas that I've only turned my attention to, I can't really stand. And secondly, I specifically address my colleagues and colleagues in the Constitutional Commission, I don't know if there is a colleague in the Constitutional Commission, this is the first case that part of the legislative process is transferred, the powers are transferred to executive power, this is the first case. We will probably need to do so in the future, but can we just take part in a single act, such as the customs tariff, to the executive power, and leave some in the power of the Parliamentary Assembly, I am not sure. I'm not a lawyer that much, I don't know I can do that. Either all the powers are in the Parliamentary Assembly, or the legislator, or all the powers of this Parliamentary Assembly relating to an operational document are one of those types and such specific weights as the customs tariff is transferred to the Council of Ministers. I really don't know how to get out of this. I am fully aware that we need to make one step here, allow flexibility and the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade, etc., but right now I can't possibly raise my hand for these formulations as they stand here. Thank you. I apologize, Mr. Šarović, if I may have disturbed something in your system, although I repeat again, I know that this document is not written in your time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9459	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9460	I would just ask, I wouldn't be replicating now if this wasn't already the second or third time that a colleague – I've noticed it and I've endured it so far, now I won't put up with it – it doesn't potential action and the role of this Constitutional Commission. My Koleginica Hadžiahmetović, read the powers of the Constitutional Legal Commission in the Rules of Procedure, so when you read them well and interpret them well, then we can discuss the role of the Constitutional Commission, generally in this Parliament and in this case. Here this commission is not a committee of jurisdiction, the committee responsible is the second commission. I'd just ask you not to take it without the need of the Constitutional Commission, we'll tell you when we have to say something, don't worry about it. That's it, thank you. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9461	Dear Ambassador Mladen Bosić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9462	Well, I would point out once again that this is actually the bill passed in the past term of the Council of Ministers, where representatives, or party ministers, represented by Mrs Hadžiahmetović, and I believe they voted in favour of such a proposal. It is evident that through this assembly procedure this proposal will experience changes and that there are, and we have, amendments, and we have certain objections and we will make amendments and expect that we will all come together to an improved version of this law. But this seems to be about principles. What are the priorities of this society? This isn't just a matter of one simple law. This is a matter of whether it is a priority to fill the budget or whether it is a priority to help the economy and employment. This is the first time space for intervention measures is opened in the event of domestic economy being threatened. This is the first time we have anticipated measures to protect domestic agriculture. And that's much more important than any remarks... than any MP we've ever heard. So I expect us to say: our priority is employment, our priority is protection and assistance to our economy, and this law is a step in this direction, and I expect this Parliament to adopt it, and in the follow-up to the procedure in the amendment phase, we manage to fix everything that is lacking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9463	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9464	First, let me mention that I have referred here to the opinions of the two resolution committees, the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs and the Constitutional Commission. I have stopped more over the wordings which are a little more legal, although I have drawn attention to what the tariff itself is, but the formulation, let's say, the draft proposal, that the amendments and the tariff supplements will be published in accordance with the law in the Official Messenger, that part of the jurisdiction of the legislative one, which is regulated by this law, will be transferred to the executive power of the customs tariff, etc. It's a legal issue, a constitutional problem, and I'm even well-intentioned to suggest that possibly the Constitutional Commission thinks about it, because this may be the first case of that kind. And, I don't know why Mr. Džaferović found himself in his muses as usual, so the Francuz would say, but here's if he thinks that what I've drawn attention to doesn't deserve constitutional thinking to say, let him forget my suggestions. That's one thing. Secondly, Mr. Bosić, it is true that this was brought by the previous Council of Ministers, where Mr. Zirojević sat instead of Mr. Šarović, where the chairman of the Council of Ministers was Mr. Špirić, etc. We have some changes, some we don't have, etc. I said, Mr Šarović, I understand perfectly well that you need to pass such a law and this Parliamentary Assembly that you should be provided with mechanisms etc., but I am not sure that we need such absurdities in the formulations that we have in this law. When we set them straight 29, should we now return possibly to the Council of Ministers, should we leave it for the amendment phase, etc., please, let this majority decide, the Parliamentary Assembly has a majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9465	Replica, honourable Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9466	Oh, it's just like trying to make an explanation. The role of the Constitutional Commission in this case is to give an opinion: whether there is a constitutional basis for the law and whether the law is in line with the BiH legal system. If the Constitutional Commission had said that there was no constitutional basis for this law, that is, that is, if it was not in line with the legal system, we would not be discussing the law. The fact is that there is a constitutional basis and the fact is that certain formulations contained in certain articles of the law, and to which you colleagues of Azra rightly pointed, are dubio from the aspect of this assessment: is this in line with the BiH legal system? But it is now ahead of us and we can, of course, evaluate that if we can get enough quality legal solution in this way, we can change it and change it through amendment action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9467	Replica, Reverend Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9468	Thank you, Chairman. Although I have not been to that session of the Constitutional Commission, I often refer to Article III.1. claiming that something is not in it, I must now say that according to Article III.1. The BiH Constitution is BiH's jurisdiction. Therefore, it is the very station that is the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9469	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9470	Just for a little while. So, don't be offended here by who's a flyer and who's not a flyer. My colleague, whether you're a flyer or maybe I am, it'll be appreciated by those who listen to us, and it's not a topic here at all. I think it's incorrect of you to go to that area. I was just trying to tell you – not wanting to, respecting you, therefore, respecting you – that there is a competent commission that has an obligation to fix you, if you should and these things you spoke of. It's not the Constitutional Commission. We did our job when we said that this law could, as far as constitutional grounds are concerned, go further into procedure. That's all I wanted to say. And I wouldn't be saying this today if I hadn't noticed two or three times so far in this session some little regrets coming from your side. I have to tell you, I don't want anything left in me. That's it, thank you. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9471	Do you need to replicate right away or will you be right back? Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović, another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9472	Well, you know what, and the propo of those stings, Mr. Džaferović, or something you see that doesn't really exist, I really don't know when and what occasion you've had the opportunity to accumulate that muhanity, especially towards the stranka for BiH and especially me, to which you refer during this period. But if you tell me that it is not constitutional matter that the law is based on a draft proposal that does not exist in our legislation, that the law is published in accordance with the law of the Official Messenger, etc., if you tell me that it is not legal matter, I do not dispute at all the constitutional basis, because I know perfectly well the powers of both the Council of Ministers and state institutions, especially the Ministry of Foreign Trade, when it comes to customs tariffs, and in particular the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Commission, when it comes to the change of one which is being introduced and for which there will be a need to enter into other laws and other areas, which is to transfer part of the jurisdiction of the Parliamentary Assembly to the Council of Ministers, or the competent ministries. I'm sorry, I know so much about the Constitution and the right to know that it's constitutional matter. My criticism wasn't in the sense that you didn't do it, but I addressed it to the Constitutional Commission that it would have much more to do in the next period to give an explanation and clarification of what is coming and about this law and other laws that will bring this Paramentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9473	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9474	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, I'm going to try a few sentences regarding the law in question. In fact, exactly what you heard from the previous debates has been the subject of broad debates and on the Commission itself. As a member of the Commission and as chairman of the Commission, I would like to tell you that we have seen many shortcomings in this law and that, I say, the possibility of adopting these principles has been present in the Commission and we are ultimately, purely for the sake of full imagery, like the Commission and have reacted several times and on several occasions, seeking, among other things, solutions to bring about the adoption of this law and, above all, driven by the need for agriculture and the food industry and the need to protect domestic producers. This is the Commission's commitment, not by entering therefore, but also by entering, of course, the content which is very discriminatory in many parts of it, because it has shown more and more competent and those institutions that are directly interested in the adoption of this law. At the very beginning of our work in the Commission, we therefore put this law back, i.e. we sent our request on February 2nd, the Directorate for indirect taxation, i.e. its Management Board, in which we asked for an opinion on the proposed law. We have then stated that the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission of the Parliamentary House, as the responsible 31 committees, at its 10th session, to remind you, was in the year 1.2.12, unable to comply with the business procedure of the House of Representatives. Therefore, it has been concluded that the Governing Board of BiH's Direct Taxation Board is asking preferably as soon as possible to deliver a Opinion on the bill we are passing to you. That opinion was necessary by the Commission to consider the proposed law. After that, on 2 February, the Commission’s address was sent to the conclusion of the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board in Banja Luka, which said: ‘The Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board of the 119th session, held in Banja Luka, examined the proposal for a Customs Tariff Act and concluded that the proposal for a Law is to be reconsidered at the next meeting of the Management Board, which was scheduled for 20 March 2012, since it was the adoption of a new Customs Tariff Act, which should be followed by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, together with the Indirect Taxation Board, or the Management Board of the ICC, once again reviewing some of the proposed legal solutions. The Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board asks that this conclusion be respected and that the consideration and adoption of the Customs Tariff Act by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH be postponed until the adoption of this law." So that's what was in the process before the board of directors. In fact, after this position of the Management Board comes a new position as the Opinion of the Bill, which stands, not to read this whole introduction, to read to you only the Opinion. So: 'The mišljanje are of the Management Board that the proposal for a customs tariff law should be withdrawn from the procedure because it lacks a customs tariff as its component.' If this is the only comment of the Management Board, the position is primarily members of the Commission and I am also to provide myself with a final proposal for the text: the customs tariff that I have brought here, simply to show it, this is the tariff, that is the booklet and should be found in how to deliver it to the Commission or to the MPs. If the MPs will read this matter, I suggest we deliver it immediately. If not, I suggest doing this in electronic form, delivering all MPs without avoiding the need for MPs to consider customs tariffs. So this is a valid customs tariff published, since Thursday, November 29th 2011, "The Official Messenger", number 105, it's a customs tariff. That's the problem that's missing from this law. Is this missing? So please share with us a valid customs tariff with this law and we have removed this statement from the Management Board, if that is the only remark. I don't think it's the only remark, that there are more. On the Commission itself, the members of the Commission also made a number of other objections to the very text of this law. But we are aware of the fact that he is a necessary economy, we have chosen to support, however, so that principles are established, in order to in some way put pressure on all competent institutions and, among other things, on the Management Board of indirect taxation, so that as quickly as possible, it is possible to include and remove first of all the shortcomings in this regulation itself. I am very grateful to the respected resolution minister who, above all, has received the legacy of the Law of this content and has not been able to change the text, which does not mean that the additional engagement of the Ministry and the Directorate for indirect taxation, its Management Board, the members of the Commission and the Members present – will not be respected until the final proposal for the text of the law. For these reasons, of course, the Commission has established its Opinion 17.4. where we have said only in one sentence, not entering the content itself, that we support principles. Because if we were to enter into the content of this law, then there would be a lot of objections that would make it so that this law would not be passed. For these reasons, we only wrote that one sentence because we had previously given a negative opinion because we had detected shortcomings in the law itself. 32 At the end of the day – that I do not enter into the content of the law itself to which I have a certain number of objections, of course we also have certain opinions of various institutions, which will be the subject of our discussions – I appeal to the MPs and, of course, with respect to all the objections, that, above all, despite the huge shortcomings, and that there are no assumptions for the adoption of such a regulation that has been made in the way that we have been proposed here, that these principles are nevertheless supported by the obligation of all of us, with additional engagement to come to the bill which will satisfy, above all, the economic entities that require the adoption of this law. So those who are interested directly in the law and, of course, it will not be possible to pass a law here in a parliamentary procedure that will not satisfy the needs of both entities and constituent peoples and MPs, MPs present in this House of Representatives. Here, it's just a small contribution to try and reach possible solutions when it comes to this legal solution. I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9475	The word has the chairman of the House of Representatives, Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9476	Thank you. Not wanting to blame anyone here for such a legal project, and given everyone involved in its assembly, I don't care if it was the previous minister, Minister Zirojević, or whether this one inherited by Mr. Šarović came to us, I want to point out three important things here that matter to all of us. One is that the Constitutional Commission, in my opinion, had to write that this legal project was not in line with this country's legal system and that it could be implemented in the amendment phase, because it does not comply with the country's legal system when it contains facts or find parts of the Law on the Official Messenger of BiH, which we do not know in BiH. We know in the Constitution that the documents in this Parliamentary Assembly, after being published in the "officer of the Office", are being led as rightdoers and there are provisions that are guided as if it were a draft proposal which is not in line with the legal system of this country that knows the Constitution. So the Constitutional Commission had to write it and say it could change in the amendment phase. On the other hand, our Trade and Customs Commission could not put a positive point or give its agreement to principles, because these principles, although good intentions, are not acceptable to all of us. The principle in which jurisdiction is given exclusively to the Council of Ministers, and the powers of this Parliamentary Assembly - I am talking about points in Article 5, which refers to Article 2 where the Council of Ministers, and we know that decisions can be made in the Council of Ministers by revote and there is no protection of the entity interest in the Council of Ministers – we are giving responsibility to the Council of Ministers and thus we are building the Government of BiH, not the Council of Ministers. It is not acceptable for all MPs here at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And the third thing in principle, that there's a whole part of this law missing that needs to be unique, is not the principle that can be supported here, even if it's said that in the amendment phase, it can change 33. Guys, here in the amendment phase, we need to change this whole law. So is the way to put the law into the parliamentary procedure so that it has to... amend the whole law? Third, we don't have a positive opinion from the Directorate for indirect taxation. We must have their opinion to pass this law. I think we quickly entered a very important legal project and it was a good intention to protect domestic production, but you can't convince me that it will protect the domestic production of the Council of Ministers without this parliament doing so. Why is this House not trusted to adopt proposals on a proposal from the Council of Ministers to protect domestic production? That is why I propose that at the end of the debate – of course, the minister has reported to address parliamentarians here again, he will get the opportunity – to withdraw the legislative proposal by the end of the debate and get a legislative proposal here agreed, which will get the required majority to go into further procedure. By the way, I'm afraid we'll get caught up in good faith. I want to believe that it was a good intention both of the previous minister and of this minister and of all of us to protect domestic production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9477	I thank Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9478	Mr. Minister, will you do it now or will you wait for the MPs to say more?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9479	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9480	Dear Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9481	Well, look, I didn't mean to discuss this law for the reason that the chairman of our commission presented the facts... and the dilemmas that were put before the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. However, I wanted to replicate the incorrect allegations of entity voting at the Council of Ministers. Therefore, there is also a mechanism in the Council of Ministers that could potentially prevent some entity threat, if I can call it that. We had all these dilemmas, about which colleagues and colleagues spoke, on the Commission. However, I want to show on one practical example how important this is to transfer powers to the Council of Ministers for more effective action to protect domestic production. At the time of maturation, the EU has made a provisional decision to ban imports of plums from BiH to the EU. We couldn't adequately respond because we have a parliamentary procedure so complex and complicated a process that we can change anything. So our Council of Ministers had no authority to act. A similar situation is with the protection of other agricultural products in BiH. When you have the maturing of agricultural products, then the general rush is very cheap products from imports. Why not in such a way not give authority to the Council of Ministers to protect domestic agricultural production in the sense of here are some temporary measures. We cannot through this law because it violates agreements on both CEFTA and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the EU. 34 Therefore, I ask you to support these principles however and to correct all these shortcomings, which were spoken of by colleagues and colleagues, through the amendment phase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9482	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9483	Mr. Chairman, I've had my discussion, I've had two replicas, so this is an attempt to answer your claim now. If we had acted the way you think we should have done, you would have had a negative report from the Constitutional Commission and this law would not have gone any further in the process, and that would mean that we claim that there is no constitutional basis for this law and that there is no compliance of this law with the BiH legal system. And we do it in those situations where it really doesn't exist. There is a constitutional basis for this law, I guess we shouldn't talk about it, that's BiH's constitutional jurisdiction. There is also compliance with the legal system. There's probably some legal inconsistency, I can't talk about it right now. But when you heard about the constitutional basis, the Constitutional Commission discussed amendments and adopted amendments, there are legal and technical errors, but all this is discussed and determined by the competent commission. So she's the one who adopts the amendments. The amendments have to be submitted, and that's why the commission's gonna do it. That's all I've been reacting to. And I'm asking you to understand each other. I mean, I have to react when I hear things like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9484	Replica, chairman of the Milorad Živković House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9485	Thank you. I didn't say one word that didn't comply with the Constitution. I said the legal regulations are not in line. And once the Constitutional Commission has to call the name of the things that happen in the Constitutional Commission. It's not enough to say: we couldn't do anything just so the law should pass, it might not be in line with this country's legal system. It's just not like that. A separate opinion can be made, a comment can be made on its opinion. On the other hand, when you talk about the urgent action of the Council of Ministers, protection of entity interest in the Council of Ministers can only happen when decisions are made, with the chairman and two deputies to vote in favour. When it is made, as said in Article 5, on the basis of consultations, adopted by the Council of Ministers, it does not mean a decision. It can also be a revote. Please don't let us do this, so that we can transfer the vote that used to be here to the Council of Ministers and put one of those important things there without the protection of the entity interest. The second thing is to write here a decision, then that would mean what it says in the Council of Ministers Act. Only the adoption of the Council of Ministers means the possibility of revote. Thank you. 35 Dear Ambassador Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9486	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, so I just wanted to say briefly that this law is needed and we need it as soon as possible to pass. I don't think there should be any problem about these legal-technical matters, because we know that the EU is monitoring its foreign trade policy, or imports and exports on a monthly basis, and their European Commission can act in that direction. And I fully agree that here we put the tool in the hands of the Council of Ministers who can right on a promiscuous basis act when it comes to this segment, because, as there has been exposure here, every delay and a month is too much, if the decision is late a month, it is already too much because it is necessary to act one-day promiscuously when it comes to this matter. And that is why it is good that the Council of Ministers has the tools and that this law is passed as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9487	Thank you. Darko Babalj, dear MP. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9488	Here, let me say hello to you, Chairman. Well, at first it was all clear to me and now I don't get it, but here's a few things to say. What is definitely that we are all that this law needs BiH and we have heard from each and every single one of us that is the most reason why we need to help the BiH economy. Then we have a situation whether to pull it back or act amendmentally on it. It doesn't matter to me in a way that as a final goal, we'll have a law that's helping the economy. Whether the minister is previous or this current, in my opinion, does not matter to the citizens of BiH at all. It's important that this law be passed. What confuses me a little is our bickering in a way one commission, another commission, the third commission, which a bit confuses the citizens of BiH. I think we've all talked, and here I am among all of you, in a way that we can help BiH and that's what we need to do and leave these things a little bit aside. So much for me.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9489	Thank you. Mr. Secretary-General. Šarović has the need to discuss this. I hope we have more opportunities to discuss this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9490	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, of course, so it's no big deal that we're even discussing, burning up like this, and it's nothing out of the ordinary. I come from the principle of continuity both in BiH institutions and the law prepared by the ministry, led by my predecessor, who received a green light 36 in the Council of Ministers in the old assembly, I have accepted as an act that you need to fully understand what I am talking about. If you ask me, and that might be the answer to a lot of the discussions I've heard here today, if you ask me if this text could have been better, I'm telling you that, it could have been better. Sure, so he could've been better. But from the variant of going backwards to, I'd say, the variations of some general good and general needs of this society, I'd choose this first. I think we have quite enough space in the coming days and weeks that most of you who made the relevant remarks, whether it was any MP club, any opposition, position, means there's plenty of room to fix it and get what we want to get. In that sense, you can fully expect my full participation and those who are working on this project at the Ministry. I suppose you realize that at any stage so far, I have not been in a position to fix or modify the text technically in one way or another because it entered the proper procedure. It is important to me at this stage that this law is something that BiH's economy needs, that the principles on which it is established are good and that it is supported by those to whom this law is concerned, and that in the second stage we can also scratch out those parts that, I say, can also question certain protections of entities, national or any other. In addition, it is up to this house to discuss whether a certain part of the mandate will be transferred to the Council of Ministers. Why not? And you can and you don't have to, you heard the reason why. And to say that this type of authorisation has been made by the European legislation and that this type of authorisation has been done by all CEFTA countries, that is, the neighbours of BiH. And how are we gonna do that? Is there anything else we can add to a particular article? Can we stress that the Council of Ministers does so by decisions, not by conclusions, recommendations or something else? Well, of course it's up to us. Or maybe you want to keep the old way, the way you think it might be best so far, that for any measure of protection that requires possible even day-to-day activity we call Parliament and discuss it. It is up to you, of course, that we gave, or the Council of Ministers' proposal, that this is how it goes. Here, so it would be kind of my answers or explanations. I like the second proposal, presented by MEP Majkić, to resolve this issue in conclusion. For me as minister is perfectly acceptable and it would be on track, I would say, and many discussions, discussions here, and he essentially allows the passage, this process that this law would have until the end of adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9491	Thank you. I didn't hear anyone make a proposal to open a public debate. There are no more reports of this. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on State Service in BiH Institutions 37 The Council of Ministers delivered the bill on 26.3.2012. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis and on the principles of the proposal for a law on 18.4. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9493	Short. So I suggest that the House of Representatives back this bill. This law actually corrects one inconsistency, one serious mistake that was made in earlier amendments and additions to this law. It's about the famous, whether, the thing that was discussed in the Bosnian-Herzegovina public, one inconsistency, one, I would say, the stupidity contained in our law, which is that, as one of the general conditions for setting up a civil servant, it is therefore required that the legal consequences of a criminal offence in the family were passed, according to criminal law. So this is something that came as a result of the amendment in the earlier phase of these laws. And so this is one big mistake, inconsistency, something that needs to be erased from this law, and I suggest that this law be passed, because it actually does. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9494	Thank you. The word has Nermin Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9495	Dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here, I can only repeat a few things after my colleague Džaferović. Namely, just after a public official's recruitment contest has been called, the Law on State Service in BiH institutions has proved to be one big mistake, bringing different applicants into an unequal position and which we practically lead to one, here's what the colleague said, the negative situation. And I think this should have been put in the process before. I suggest we just delete this provision requiring candidates... to bring practical confirmation that their legal consequences for the crime of domestic violence have ceased. In order not to be a dilemma, I think we're all agreed to accept this law, what was proposed, and to delete this ugly provision.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9496	Thank you. The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9497	It's a bit surprising, a very simple change, and here's something we're discussing more than we should. But here, I'll try to explain why I answered. So this is an example, a good example of the ombudsmen's actions, so on their recommendation, this was done. That's number one. Number two, it is also an example of the reckless action of the Members themselves. So this is the result of the amendment. An amendment for which it has not been previously verified whether it complies with international conventions and other system laws. So, that's two things I answered. And the third thing to say is that all this is going slowly: for three years this law has been in force. So for three years, he's had this feller in him and this nonsense, according to Džaferović, and produces consequences. And when we get to the vote, it's not absolutely clear to me why the proposer didn't ask for an emergency procedure, a simple simple change, so when we get to the vote, I suggest that we make a statement about the plea in both readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9498	Since there are no more reports, I am concluding a debate on the fourth item of the agenda. Moving to the fifth point of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Single Parent Number (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers submitted the draft law on 26.3.2012. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission Opinion on constitutional basis and the principles of the Bill's proposal delivered on 18.4.2012. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. The first one was registered for discussion by Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9500	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, it is a law that tries to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision on the Law on a single home number related to the names of municipalities. And although we can talk about this for a long and long time, I have my own opinion here, there is therefore a Constitutional Court decision and this law is aimed at parliamentary procedure. But this is an example of how it should not be implemented, in my opinion, I am now speaking as Šefik Džaferović, a representative. The opinion of the Commission you have received, there I am too loud and now I am speaking as a member of Parliament, this is an example of how you should not try to implement the judgments of 39 of the Constitutional Court and that with what is dry, what our people would say, you plant and what is raw so that everything is burned together. So here, with one thing to be fixed, according to the Constitutional Court decisions, one other thing is trying to do: to change the reorganisation of the registration areas; in BiH, it is not required by the Constitutional Court, neither is it requested by anyone, nor is it agreed in BiH at all. We in BiH since 2001, when the Law was passed, have 10 registration areas when it comes to home numbers and these areas have been made in accordance with one logical organization, where people, no matter where they live, were in the same register and had the same number in that group 4. The first group in the home number are two numbers relating to the day of birth. Second group: two numbers relating to the month. Third group: three numbers relating to the year. And now this fourth group: two numbers relating to the number of registers. The fifth group is gender and six groups are control numbers. So this fourth group, the fourth group or number have the same people that live for example. Now in Zvornik, they were born in Zvornik, Tuzli, Brcko, Bijeljina, Tuzli - so it's the same register – Zenica and Kupres, Travnik, not to speak now. Here is now what is called the implementation of the judgment and the alignment of the title with the Law on Territorial Organization – but we can also talk about it, I therefore have my own court and position, but this time it is not a topic – trying to reorganise the parent areas and awareness of them, so registers and parent areas, within the borders of the entity and Brcko District. I don't think that's the point or that's certainly not a request for a Constitutional Court ruling. I don't think it's an interest for us in BiH and for this reason today, for these reasons, I can't support this law and I will vote against this law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9501	The word has Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9502	I will not repeat what Mr. Džaferović was saying, but the motives of my reporting are very similar and my intention was to ask the promoter practically to explain to me what the motive was for these changes when it came to these registration areas, or registration groups. Because, looking at the opinion of the Resolute Ministry of Local Administration and the Self-Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I have not noticed that this has been warned, nor has this been requested. I also noticed that there was no adequate opinion from the Federation resolution ministry. If it's already a practice of obtaining through opinion procedures, consultation etc., it's time to hear this Federation ministry, for the simple reason that it comes to the situation that now with names... we now have a new kind of problem when you engage in this kind of work. Now you have in the Federation of the Municipality of Trnovo, you have in the Federation of Ilidge. Whether it means now should be western or should be in the Federation etc. I, for example, see Ilidža there being designated Ilidža in the Federation, and I am not familiar with the official name of Ilija municipality in the Federation – Ilija in the Federation, but only Ilidža. So, it was necessary, it seems to me, when this kind of work has already been engaged, it's also heard from the Federation Resolute Ministry. And I'd like to see if there's one of the proposings to explain to us, firstly, what were the motives for this transfer of municipalities from the registration areas to the second. It explains that it is adapted to a territorial organization, but why is it not respected before then, etc. and to explain whether it was necessary to consult the resolution ministry, the competent ministry and the Federation in order to avoid these misunderstandings. I, by the way, would prefer to have one analysis of the economic justification of the existence of at least 20, from political motives, established municipalities with names of eastern 40 and Western etc. which have absolutely no references, nor the preconditions to be municipalities in both the Federation and the RS. And what have the citizens of BiH, the inhabitants of these areas ever received from these powerful epithets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9503	The word has Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9504	Dear chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I will significantly cut my discussion short for the exposure of my counterpart Belkić and my colleagues, Džaferović. So, the SDP Club is completely on the back of this discussion and we believe that when it comes to the abuse of the Constitutional Court's verdict, that is, the implementation of the Constitutional Court's ruling. It is very clear, we have all received in the materials, as far as the Constitutional Court's ruling is concerned, and no problem would be for us to implement this judgment through amendments and additions to this law. However, a step further went here and with the implementation of the verdict, as the Constitutional Court said, another element was added which is absolutely not part of the verdict, which is a change in the register of parent numbers. We have considered this material on the Constitutional Commission and we have asked for explanations similar to those requested by counterpart Belkić and we have received answers that are what they are: that there is this principle of something that was and does not necessarily mean that it is good, without getting an answer why it is not good. Is there a problem with the fact that they're in the same register as the citizens of Goražd and Foče? Is that what's causing someone's life to be a problem? Is that causing a problem for someone from Zvornik and Tuzla and Brcko who are in the same register? What difference does it make what register they're in? Here it is said, and here I see a colleague of Prodanović reported, he said it at the Commission's session that we should not be against the implementation of the Constitutional Court's ruling. I would also like to make it clear: the SDP absolutely supports the Constitutional Court's verdict and its implementation through the amendments and additions of this law, but it will never support the fact that, with our legal obligation, there are certain things that are absolutely not here, which are not the subject of discussion, which are not governed by consultation. And that is why the SDP Club will not support this proposal for amendments and amendments to the law. Also, the principle of who is not against this is the conduct of the verdict, and we heard it at the Constitutional Commission session, is absolutely unacceptable to us. And in the end, I'll just say that we don't think it would be an excuse to try to build trust among all of us and talk about these things, so, if nothing, it was correct that in the reasoning of the law, where a very correct explanation was given for this part which was done for the need to implement the Constitutional Court Decision to also give an explanation for this second part, instead of being afraid to say in one sentence at the end of the paragraph: the proposed amendment is also adapted to the territorial organisation of BiH. And there was a point without any explanation. So, to put it short, we're not going to support this bill, no matter what the discussion is.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9505	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9506	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, well, there was a debate on the Constitutional Commission, and I would like to repeat that for the House of Representatives session. This is one of the typical ways of a partial relationship with the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court decisions that we often behave differently in BiH on certain issues where we exclusively insist on implementation, and here if we wanted to retain the status quo which is unfortunately imposed entirely unnecessary by imposing laws and strong pressure on the international community in BiH, which is the process of dialogue and democratisation has dramatically challenged, built a higher degree of mistrust and the feeling that only in BiH there are those who were right and others who were guilty. It should be recalled that this bill has absolutely all the features of the implementation of the decision, i.e. the Constitutional Court of BiH's ruling on the request by the MPs of the National Assembly of the RS. What is the problem if registration areas on the single birth number are required to be in line with the BiH territorial organisation? The previous law was applied to a territorial organisation, the Law on the Territorial Organisation of the former Socialist Republic of BiH, I believe in '74. A year. Such organisations now, such a territorial organisation in BiH does not exist. In BiH now there are: local communities, there are RS entities and the Federation of BiH, there are cantons, there is BiH. The inauguration of this, when RS was brought into a situation to change the names of certain places, which is only jurisdiction, and according to the Constitution of BiH, the jurisdiction of the entities, it was done immediately on time, not only the names of the settlements in the RS entity but also the coat of arms and flags and a number of other symbols that were the obligations of the RS. It is now proposed that these registration areas be in line with the territorial organisation. The problem is, right now, the problem is not only, I agree with my colleague Belkić, who says we have a sad fragmentation of local communities in both entities and the question is whether some municipalities need to exist with a few hundred or a thousand, but that's a whole other question, it has nothing to do with it. But... to say the problem is and there's no reason for the unique birth number of the municipality of Zvornik to be in the registration area of Tuzla. No one will escape from Zvornik either from RS or BiH. We will bring this into line with the current constitutional arrangement of BiH. It is now as it is and it is sad that 16-17 years after the Dayton Agreement we are in a position to adapt it. It's absolutely unacceptable for us. Also, why should a citizen of Petrovo municipality pick up his papers at Gracanica? What's he supposed to go to Calais for? He needs to exercise his rights where they belong. So here is the clear intention that, in the whole story, when the bill is set up as it is, there are strong non-political views in BiH. I have no objection to those views, to say right now, I don't mind... I can't go through politically as far as the RS is concerned. But they always advocate an additional story of regionalisation and disrespect for the BiH Constitution. If the BiH Constitution and when it is in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure were changed and another way of BiH's territorial organisation was established, it would be quite logical and legal, and in accordance with the law and the Constitution of this country, to discuss the problem in this way. Now, to advocate that we should keep the registration areas, so even if we don't respect them as they are proposed now, we will have a situation where citizens from two or three municipalities, even with the same name, are in the same registration area, which can create major problems and a big confusion. So, for the SNSD, the proposal for this law and its constitutional basis is absolutely in line with the principles of this law, absolutely in line with the constitutional justice system of BiH and means 42 implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision on this issue which has been adopted and which is otherwise delayed in implementation. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9507	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9508	Correction of an incorrect quote and a brief replica. So it's not true that someone from Osmak should go to Calais to get any documents, or that someone from Zvornik should go to Tuzla for any documents. It is only a number within the home number showing the number of registers where the municipality is located. So it's absolutely not about anyone going anywhere to get any documents. So, let me get this straight. The second thing, when we proposed the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in the case of Sejdic-Finci v BiH to go to a comprehensive reform, in the sense that we are now immediately eliminating the discrimination of the constituent peoples that will quickly follow us, among other things, the position of the SNSD was: no less than what it says in the ruling. And in the end, we accepted that view because we're working on a consensus basis. And now the existing working group is still working on that principle no less than what it says in the ruling. When we apply that to the BiH Constitutional Court ruling in this case and we say we go on the same principle, we go ahead and implement, implement the Constitutional Court verdict, then we are said to have a partial approach to the implementation of the verdict. We have no partial but we have consistency in relation to the established principle. If we implement the verdict let's implement it, if we want something broader then it's logical to talk about it more widely and get to know it, not to get in the material through one sentence of reasoning that who's being and something else should be done there. So here, I am finishing up, the solution to withdraw this law and to make a new law that will only deal with the implementation of the Constitutional Court's ruling, and without a problem, we will adopt it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9509	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9510	I don't know what kind of internal territorial organization Mr. Prodanović is talking about. Nowhere is prescribed in the BiH Constitution that all areas of life, everything that is subject to regulation should be placed exclusively within entity borders. We have examples, and these are good examples, where things work the way it's functional and efficient, regardless of the inter-entity line. This is one of those things. There are several other very important and very important: indirect taxation, intelligence service, SIPA, a number of others, therefore, I do not know which organisation is referred to as requiring such reorganisation of parent numbers. That's one thing. 43 The other thing, someone wrote that he didn't think at all, let no one be angry who wrote it, or maybe he thought it through, I don't know, I want to believe that he didn't think about the possible implications of this solution. Did he think about what this means in relation to the numbers already issued, what this means in relation to the exiled and displaced persons, what does this mean in relation to the census, what does this mean in relation to the new identity cards, what does this mean in relation to the set of laws relating to citizenship? So, this whole thing has something to do with it, and don't think that this isn't being analyzed and we don't know this. So I've now said this to say that this is one attempt to do all this through the implementation of the Constitutional Court's verdict, and it's not the subject of the Constitutional Court's verdict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9511	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9512	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I didn't expect one of these to cause this much controversy. Now, this law will obviously not get the support of the majority, it's undeniable. And I can understand the outcome, but I can't understand what the problem is with numbers. Here, we had a problem, I don't know, in nationality, we had a problem with the letter. What's the problem with the number? Here, I understand that someone wants to keep the situation going, but I don't understand what the fear of a new condition is. What changes if I have a week instead of a threesome or vice versa? What's the problem? Why so unseen fear of it? Because it's not a week. It's a three. Do they have national numbers? One technical and administrative question suddenly turned into something that shouldn't. It is true that local self-government, individuals take over what has been denied so far, whether by force or by any means you want. And that Constitutional Court ruling has its consequences that local self-government, in addition to correcting what is explicitly there, will take over what belongs to it. It belongs to her. Because it scares me out of fear of changing numbers. What happens tomorrow when we change something else if the number is a problem? And is it, here's the problem to stay, but why is the problem of changing the unseen problem? Why don't we change the license plate? Why don't we see as all the countries of the world to see, no, everything has different models, but why are we projecting fear of what's going to say on our plates that someone from Banja Luka or Sarajevo is? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, not the budget, here's your passport the other day, so let's go with the budget. Let go of that story that has consequences, everything has consequences, and we know it costs. But why is BiH afraid to see Mostar, Sarajevo, Banja Luka on the tables? And we live under that fear and we delay that question because we think this is better. It's not better, we did this out of fear, and now we don't have the strength to admit that we need to change that. Let's see what the problem is and keep it like this, but what's the problem and change? Same with these numbers. There may also be arguments to remain, there may also be arguments that the verdict is clear and the consequences of that ruling that local administration, self-government, entities take over because it belongs to them because it is a territorial organisation. If it's not explicitly written there it belongs to them, and they're just for practical reasons they just did it now. And it's not a problem that it's someone not to change it, it's a problem that's said that one change of numbers will now cause chaos. And we accepted and lived under these imposed things and it wasn't a problem, here we are not making a problem. But by delaying our adjustment to real life, we only show that we are in favor of division. It's only by showing that life is going in the road, and we're going in the woods, or vice versa, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9514	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9515	I'm closing up. I really see that behind this are different visions of the political order of the country, different plans than Dejton, past the new story that reality is here, which we are all fully aware of. And it can't change that, this will be adopted sooner or later.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9516	Replica, honourable Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9517	My replica refers to discussions or replicas of respected counterparts Saša Magazinović and Šefik Džaferović. Is the problem when you're talking about why it's a problem to be a Zvornik in Tuzla. Yes, because Zvornik is neither in Tuzla Canton nor in the Federation of BiH. Then we have to be open about it. No problem, we have no reservations that the register of unique birth numbers is being conducted in BiH as it is in accordance with the law, but registration areas must be adapted to the Constitution, and thus also to the territorial organisation of BiH. The problem is. Look what we're unhappy about. Violence has made a number of moves that create a confusing situation in BiH. Once again, it is an unforgivable mistake why on the BiH citizens' ID card there is no other than the BiH coat of arms and the entity's coat of arms and under the name of the BiH state, the name of the entity. We have nothing against such a state that respects the rights of all, in which we will be equal and thus talk. But we have such attitudes and we will fight in every way possible. We'll make assumptions, let me tell you right away. If it is a unique home number, is it not logical that it corresponds to the interior ministry's arrangement, it means police forces in BiH and the judiciary. There is also an unfair establishment of the Directorate for indirect taxation in the way it was established and we have visible judgments of the BiH Court about it and everyone is trying to cheat on each other. We have no reason. It's also a matter of setting up a SIPA and a series of other organizations. We will open every question, all the way to one in BiH, so we will open it and discuss it with a common agreement until every citizen in BiH is there because BiH must not be tight to anyone but not too comfortable to anyone and to anyone close. So, against such a way, against any law-making we fight in that way. We're not being honest. If we do, that's what I mentioned to the Constitutional Court: when we need to implement the Constitutional Court's ruling in this area, then we'd just do what's right for us, let's keep what we have. When it comes to implementing the BiH Constitutional Court ruling on the city of Mostar, 45 are also trying to do so. Let's talk about the problem once, how we're gonna get to something that's common. This, you don't think, are the life issues of BiH citizens as a presumption of democratic development and economic progress. We are wasting time on this for nothing, losing therefore essential assumptions that we can discuss faster BiH membership and BiH's path to EU membership and better economic development, but we will not give up on them at the cost of paying the price, in a certain sense, of the economic status of BiH citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9518	Let's move on with the replicas. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9519	Here, I answered, as Mr. Prodanović asked a public question about what the problem was and called for honesty. Here, I will speak very honestly and openly what is the problem with me as Beriza Belkić. The problem is that the leader of his political party says that BiH is not interested in him, that it has no perspective and that it does not exist as a minority state. And so all that's in the context of that, those actions in terms of attacks on everything that makes this country's integration I'm experiencing as a direct blow to my safety and my life perspective. Here, Mr. Lazar, it's my sincere motive to see in technical matters sometimes another kind of intention, because man says so openly.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9520	Dear Ambassador Saša Magazinović, replica, incorrect quote, correction, reply to the replica, all together.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9521	This is what's left of me so I don't get involved anymore. So, I think counterpart Kalabić actually asked a key question, a real question. What does a change of count even mean to who? And that's exactly what I wanted to say in my discussion. What, what's the reason he's changing and what does that even mean to anyone? What is the useful value of this change? What's gonna happen to her? And what ever occurred to anyone to put this into change and supplement and thereby prevent the adoption of a law that was initiated by the Constitutional Court. So, colleague Kalabić, here I absolutely agree with you. I wouldn't go any further into this the way anyone would want plates, arms, etc., I mean, one thing is our personal desire, and the other is what's real. Maybe I'd like to have the back of the Football Club Railway on my ID card or on my plates, but that's also illogical and, I don't know, I don't know, that I don't judge any further, unreal things like that, and I don't suggest it. So let's go back to these real frames and try to go to a solution, and I think one more solution is to get a new law without what's a stumbling block.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9522	Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9523	Thank you, Chairman. 46 Well, I am surprised by this number of discussions on relatively acceptable and trivial changes. The current Proposal for a Law amending the Single Parent Code only introduces registers by election units as defined in the Election Law. In addition, Article I(3). The BiH Constitution says: "Bosnia and Herzegov consists of two entities, the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska." What is disputed about finding in one register municipalities belonging to an entity belonging to the same constituency? I don't see where the paranoid fear comes from. And when I see such a paranoid fear and such an attempt to prevent it, then I feel threatened, because I am deprived of my civil rights to feel also the citizen of the RS entity. Here, today we could see, I am amazed at what I heard from Mr. Belkić, that the change in this home number is an attack on BiH's integration and security. I would then, if we go by that logic, say that retaining the current division in the registers is an attack on the constitutional order of BiH, because it consists of two entities, and that it is an attempt to centralise BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9524	Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9525	Here, I should be entitled to two replicas, but I'll try to cut it short. So when I told Mr. Magazinović: we can't change the thing that you won't vote for, we won't all die because we won't change today... It's a fact, but it remains a discipline, and it remains that you will not and will not give it. And you've been well complemented by Mr. Belkić, we're not, and here we are now telling you not to, because we're planning something else with you. We have a different scenario with you, so we do not give. Now, that's the fact that I said, we can't change it. But what they say is, "We have a horse for the race too." We'll wait for someone else where we won't be able to change. Because we're thinking about what Mr. Belkić said, but he took it out of context. First, his current half-lider, or I don't know whether L from the leader, former leader, strangled Milorad Dodik with a 100% BiH story where he's not as human or as entity or as state. And choked, choked until this guy got kidnapped. And when he got kidnapped, he said yours was nothing. It was forgotten by Mr Belkić that there was no place for either RS or Srbin or anyone in the 100% BiH story. And when it's turned into a front and it's gone, and politics and leaders and everything else, it's now surprising that Milorad Dodik doesn't go and clap BiH. I think a better policy would be to legalize what Milorad Dodik says. Allowing him to discuss democratically in this House his ideas as allowed by Scotland and England. And now they're sober about it, very sober. Do you think he's not responsible when he's bringing up those ideas? It's not easy to confess these ideas, and they all have their challenges. But the opposite is that you don't let him talk, you don't give. It's an invitation to a dark fairy, it's an evil one. That's what makes the birthmark. I won't let you talk about it, let alone do it! And it usually happens to the one who keeps telling it. History teaches us that it's always been that way, I have a feeling it will be in this case.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9526	Replica second, honourable MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9527	Well, first on this subject, the leader, etc., so every one of his, Mr. Kalabić, we'll see what happens to your leader. You are otherwise very skilled for these jumps and for this presentation of various scene events etc. But to clarify, therefore, I am absolutely in the continuity of the position that such entities with this mood and intentions towards BiH are her enemies and I am absolutely in favour of abolishing such entities, with such philosophy and with such intentions. I'm absolutely against the centralization of the country. I'm absolutely anti-Zulum, etc. So, Mr. Kalabić, when I am on the discussion of Mr. Prodanović, who said that we must be honest, that we have to tell each other what this is about, I simply answered the following: that in the context of a statement made by the SNSD president in the sense that BiH as a state does not exist, that it is not interested, that it is best to fall apart etc., so when you think politically and rationally about the discussions you hear here, with initiatives to end this, to lift what, with initiatives that the state is naked, so to say, you must have caution and fight to preserve it. Therefore, as we sit here, the BiH Straka MPs will react this way. We have instruments, hands, too, so you can see what it's like to use entity or one or another vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9528	Replica, Mr. President. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9529	Thank you. I asked a colleague to make an announcement so he wouldn't give himself a word. Mr. Kalabić has two replicas and can't have a third, he can have a discussion. I think we're away from today's subject. The subject is the home number, the law on the unique birth number, and I ask you to return to today's topic of conversation. We're not gonna end this law, we're clear here, everyone's attitudes. We know in advance who's in favour, who's against. We don't need to lose all day to tell each other the ugliest things. If you want to open the discussion in this way, each of us MPs has something to say, and about who loves BiH, who loves RS, who hates it, who calls it genocide, who is aggressors every day, who wants to end it, what is abuse of entity voting, what is voting, etc. But that's not the topic of today's discussion here. The theme of the Single Parent Number Act, passed through the Council of Ministers in the same way as the previous law, came here and it is up to us to say whether we are in favour or against. We are from the RS, as I have seen, decidently saying that we support this law, we believe it is the support of the Constitutional Court's decisions. Of course, the other arguments are against it and we move on to the following laws. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Petar Kunić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9530	Thank you, Chairman. I told the Constitutional Commission my point of view. I think the proposal of the competent ministry is actually a alignment with the Constitution. So, harmonising this law with the Constitution and it should have been done far earlier. There are some other things that will appear, which will also be the alignment of 48 with the Constitution, and are not in line so far. Apparently, some have been under a great attack for a long time if they have not found some provisions out of the Constitution that are not in line, that is, some laws that do not comply with the Constitution, or some laws have not yet been passed, and are to be passed. Indeed, the question arises why it causes so much bile, are we at the stage of having such a degree of mistrust? It's a really high degree of mistrust. Essentially this question, and I will repeat by Mr Kalabić: so who is the problem with this number, and when it is known that it is a alignment with the Constitution, i.e. the alignment with the territorial division of BiH, i.e. administrative and territorial division. Gentlemen, I'd like to remind you that this was the most important issue in Dayton and in pre-Dayton agreements, so this administrative and territorial division. How sensitive they are to each other. And I have to say that we will insist on this and that we will not take any amortisation measures in this respect, because it is constitutional law. So, the fact is that citizens live in the RS and have a home number in the Federation. The fact is that local self-government is in the sole jurisdiction of the entity, so it rules out entity jurisdiction. I would remind you that when the constitutional amendments were adopted, the April package was called, BiH was scheduled to regulate the basics, so the framework law was foreseen. It's not accepted. The current legal situation is that entities regulate local self-government and that is an absolute category and there are no dilemmas. So it's logical, so it's not even, that it's not even harmonising with administrative-terroral, if you want, and political division, so we've never opened a debate here, because it's almost impossible to open up a debate that is the type of state. I keep saying it's... now a federal state. Of course, some people don't think so. And when we open the debate, then I'll give you the exact elements that absolutely say it's a federal state, because the theory here is clear, it defined what the federal state is, what its elements are. So we have an administrative and territorial division and, of course, the parent numbers will also be related to that administrative and territorial division. Because citizens exercise their rights, please, they exercise their rights in entities, that is, presummation is in municipalities. As there is a presummation of jurisdiction in favour of the entity under the BiH Constitution, there is also a presummation of jurisdiction in favour of the municipality. Why? So jobs get closer to citizens, they get cheaper and more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9531	Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9532	Thank you very much. Well, we're not honest, and maybe, despite the fact that the chairman just said that we should end up with all these stories, maybe that's exactly the kind of story we're missing, maybe we could remove all the big dilemmas that we have, and especially the fears that are around us. We have to talk about everything, but we see that we think differently because we're from the decision-making position always if we have to or if we don't have to. Please tell me if we had come out with a proposal, if there had been no constitutional court decision, would this parliament ever pass this law that would finally bring the names of the municipalities into line with the real state? Never, never. We talked about it more than once, there was absolutely no willingness to adopt such a thing. I want to remind you, as far as this entity's correctness is concerned, the RS has done everything expected of it from the aspect of fulfilling its constitutional obligations. It is said: it can't be a Serbian voice so it became "the voice of Republika Srpska", it is said it can't be a Serbian Ship or I don't know what, so it's just a Ship now. So you shouldn't have warned us about it, we did it, and we were ready to do 49. I thought this decision of the Constitutional Court would help solve the issue within the Federation and that Gornji Vakuf would not be at the same time in Skopje and vice versa, i.e. that Rama was also the Window, it did not help you. What else is hypocritical about all this? When it comes to defending certain elements of the former state, we see that it is exactly the defenses of those who have invested most that it is not today. Celebrate the holidays of the former state, so I don't know why we didn't stay when we were doing so well, why we didn't stay in that country, but we did everything we could to keep it from happening. And now this, someone won't say the Emperor is naked, even though nothing's going to happen. According to Lazo Zvornik, he's in Republika Srpska, even if it says there, I don't know what. And not to admit that this territorial division means not to admit that there is an entity called RS. And we know that's the problem with you. It is not true that we do not have what has been taken from the RS, because what has been taken is still problematic. The indirect taxation administration today owes 60 million to RS, not to talk about other institutions. And one more thing we should talk about and open a debate with really: does the new institutions, does every new institution mean more BiH? It doesn't. We are not prepared for this Parliament to talk about the institutions that we have accumulated and that they have no meaning and that they spend money that we have to take from those who need money, here we may take from the Border Police because we want to keep those institutions that in no way justify their existence. There's no power in this House to do that. And what you're doing right now to keep the territorial division of the former state, I want to stay a lady so I don't tell you what that means. We need to start talking about topics that will bring us closer and not further away, if you want to keep this country. The representatives of the RS of BiH are not destroying. You'll get from us always a reliable partner when we build in the interest of us benefiting, but why should we vote in favour of laws that only benefit you, to you from the Federation, I think. We want to benefit from that, and we don't want anyone stealing from us and taking part of our income from the IRS, we don't want that. And why would you let that happen? We want to strictly respect what is constitutional matter and in no way will we dispute BiH if we benefit from it. For now whatever our proposal is, you're against it. Entity vote, here, don't abuse entity voting today and vote against this law. And you won't get anything by taking him down, because Zvornik will still stay in the RS.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9533	Dear Ambassador Mato Franjičević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9534	Thank you, Mr. President. During the debate on this law on the Constitutional Commission, I warned of the convenience of issues for opening difficult stories, strategic stories under quotes, or without them, and I urged that despite the fact that we try to retaliate that trap, the danger, to try to be as rational and pragmatic as possible. In this law, one thing is clear: it has its own necessary and its own additional part. It is necessary that part of the Constitutional Court's verdict be implemented, and the additional part is the one that did not necessarily have to be and could have been. I also said on the Constitutional Legal Commission that I am not too thrilled with the fact that this additional part is added and that my view is of course approximately the result of the fact that 50 moods are in addition to that additional part of the proportion of the mood that Hrvat feel towards the Dayton constitutional framework. But here, in order for me not to fall into the trap of starting heavy and complex stories, I will try to appeal once again to try to be rational and pragmatic and not to stop this law at this stage, it's about first reading. Namely, all doubts and dilemmas, all against what he or she is for, can be resolved in phase two. This second phase can also be further discussed and possibly brought closer to the views and then the possible amendment can lead to a law that will come out of this Parliamentary Assembly and which will be implemented by the Constitutional Court judgment, and I think that it is of interest to all of us. So here's another appeal: let's not stop the law at this stage and try to leave some room for further consent to phase two, or to the amendment action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9535	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Salko Sokolović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9536	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. It's not a discussion anymore. It's a replica, but I'll be a little bit ahead of this story of yours. I simply didn't want to apply for a replica because of colleagues who had already been registered for the discussion. Oh, here's a few words, shall I remind you that BiH is not a state community, how it is through discussions to be noticed, that BiH is a state that has an internal distinction in the territorial part of it to two entities, and one of the entities on 10 cantons, etc. That's the point of the problem. And the Brcko District, here's a reference to me, that's the point we need to know if we want to talk about this. And indeed, if we think in a different way than that this law should not be adopted for these reasons mentioned earlier, then we are going to further divide the BiH state, that is the essence. And it's not good, and it's not good, and we have to get away from it. I'm a BiH citizen, I gave up this entity, I don't care. So I'm a BiH citizen and I think everyone should behave that way. So if at this point we have something in common that binds us, and even this number that here has become controversial, now I don't know who else, then we need to keep it as such and have another additional bond that will help us make, in some period ahead of us or some other generation of this country of BiH, both constitutionally better and better in economic terms, for the life of future generations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9537	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9538	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the guests, well, it's very interesting, to be honest, I didn't mean to discuss this law, but since this law has initiated a debate on all matters other than nature and the principles of the law, here at the end of this debate I decided to give some kind of a modest contribution. We have not heard here in any of the debates so far what is a unique home number of citizens, and why it is established, and what it serves, and where it is all present, and how many citizens of this country who have some unique home number of citizens, and it is not prescribed by this proposal whether it will have to be changed, when it will have to be changed, in how many official records will have to be changed, from the parent books born where, where over 4 million single numbers are entered, from IDs, driver's licenses, traffic licenses, bank accounts, pensions etc., etc., and all possible records that exist in this country where the unique home number is used as the most reliable means of identifying each citizen. We've turned this into a local administration and self-government, which, by the way, doesn't matter. We've turned into a story about entity divisions, not divisions, advocacy, not advocacy, not advocacy, has nothing to do with it, I have to say, at least I don't think it has a slight connection, but we've talked about it at least, although the law says no additional financial resources are needed, as much as and how this law is going to reflect on, here at least 4 million citizens of this country who have a certain home number. And how many will it... of them... I don't believe a lot of resources will need a state to isolate, so, but how much of them will take to change their identification in all possible... states and probably... are in their interest, probably that they would be better off and that, in addition to all the confusions in which they live, they wouldn't know when to change this parent number, they don't know how to change it, they don't know until they're in existence. And I think that for these reasons, because of these citizens, it is not necessary at this time to make changes, so it is not necessary, because this requires them to impose a new force on the villa. And I'd love to talk about that law a little while ago, so we'd like to appeal to the interests of the economy, etc. to be efficient so that we can act in the interests of the citizens a little bit and practically, not to confuse them with extra laws that are not necessary.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9539	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9540	The Honorable Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, the distinguished left-hand side that has not yet been separated, in the past term, and here I have always insisted in this one, and I will insist that every law that comes into the parliamentary procedure is kept, under the supposed signs, alive until we exhaust all the possibilities that the Rules of Procedure has provided for its final final final, and the final is when the last time is put in place, not for the last time in terms of voting, but on that law, whether it is definitely adopted or failed. So, we do this kind of discussion when it comes to first reading so much we have to talk about these principles, and that's all these principles we go around and then we get involved. And what happens to us? That our numbers are more important than our people. And we're practically putting ourselves in a position to lose our own identity who we are, what we've been to remember and turn into numbers. So we protect the interest and constitutional position of the RS and I always plead on my colleagues not to force us out of BiH, because if they sometimes disagree with us or disagree with us, that doesn't mean that we came here 52 with the stance and today we declared an independent RS. We are merely presenting the position of the RS, its constitutional authority, which is the most in such a way that we defend the BiH Constitution. And then in the end, if one general analysis were to be made, someone, at least on the human side, would have to say: so these MPs from the RS are greater protectors of the constitutional position and territorial organisation of BiH than we ourselves who attack them as alleged separatists, which is not so. So, what do I want to say? We give creamworth to the centres of civil initiatives, which I always welcome, which will have information: Parliament has planned to adopt so many laws, and have adopted 5%. Well, we're not even 2%, because there will never be at least three sentences in their report: there has been a heated debate, but there will be: MPs with huge incomes have passed the least law of all countries in the region. So, the wrong concept because there are one-national states, they have no problems with the home number of a municipality belonging to the RS and the one belonging to the Federation. But if the birth number and that registration belong to the Municipality of Pala, there is no physicist, nor any cosmic force that will now be transferred to Gruda, and Gruda will be transferred to Pala. Well, that's what we do, and we complicate and lead to absurdity. So I'm going to end up, and I've always done that, not with a message and a request, but let's let people take out all the possibilities, give the law the opportunity to live, in the amendment phase see if it's possible to fix something, so we say in that final, say: we are in, these others are not in, or they are in, we're in, or no one is in, or we're all in. I wish, because we're only for when we have to ratify some agreements, because it's a little bit like who's reading it, and when this one's not supposed to cause this much attention, at least in the first reading, here's how far we get, and I'm asking the chairman when we're going to take a break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9541	Depending on the application. I expect everything to be the last discussion. Mr. Milan Zjajić has already raised his hand for the fifth time, but you will not get the word yet, because there is not yet time for you, slowly, calmly, to discuss Saša Bursać, depending on what the MP is saying and there will probably be a replica or there will be no replication and other registrations. And the break, my intention was at 1400 to be, but we'll see how it happens. Here you go, Saša.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9542	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the esteemed presidency, fellow MPs, all present in the O.R. I won't be long, and I hope I don't cause a single replica. Like this, I'm thinking and listening to what my colleagues are saying. One remembered BiH's arrangement, and we're talking about the home number, the other remembered security in BiH, and how it could be compromised by the parent's number and statements by Milorad Dodik, I don't see the same relationship, one, and logically, what we need a home number for at all. And I, here, was offered this way by all the discussions and I listen to the meaning of where everything is wandering, and I know about a practical problem. I come from Prijedor, and when I was in the story about some home number, or someone close to me, there were no birth numbers, and that birth number was waiting for 15 days. Did anyone think that might be a problem? If that birth number can come faster and easier from the local community, I'm here to pass this along, now a little paraphrasing, meaning the local community. If it's a local community that's going to fix it faster and it won't have to wait 15 days, let it go to the local community. If it's an entity, let it be an entity, if it's going to be complicated in any way, as I've just counted it, let's look for a fourth, fifth solution. So BiH or anyone just to get rid of it practically. 53 Mr. Belkić, as for security, means I do not want to call you, just to give you one piece of information: I come from Prijedor, and in Prijedor there are many returnees, returners of Bošnjak, Muslims, whatever. These people had a huge problem, they took a frequent vacation to come to Prijedor to solve their documents, for each document they needed a home number. And when they came in there and filed a request, because they had to come in person to make that request, they said, "No home number, come in in 15 days." And their annual vacation lasts for seven or ten days, so they had to look for ways to stay or then come to solve the problem. And those problems are huge, and then there's the chase for all the other documents, so the type of ID, passport, this one, that one, everything else. Don't make it too complicated. If this law, if it has come as it is and if it will improve for us, it will make it easier for BiH citizens to get to that home number, if it will make it easier for them to get their documents, if it means anything to them in life, let it be as easy as possible, as quickly as possible. So, don't mention any statements there now, I don't know who. They did not feel threatened by chasing their home number, but they felt surely humiliated because they were waiting for him for 15 days. I'd say humiliated, so you shouldn't use the word "hazard," "hazard" from someone or something, if people have a practical problem. I don't see the threat here, I don't see this, I don't see what it is, so all I see is that the problem is that everyone from their country was humiliated, it was BiH, from the municipality or anyone else if it can't end in as short a time period as possible. In normal countries, that number comes by mail at home, you don't go anywhere and nobody chases it and nobody argues about it whether it's the jurisdiction of this or that. It just means from this practical part I've come across from these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9543	Thank you. Since we're from the Minister of Civil Affairs, Sredoje's Nović gets that he is on his official trip to Russia, Assistant Minister. Milan Zjajić has the need to report on this law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9544	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, when it comes to this law, I want to reject all those phobias and assumptions about the existence of any hidden intentions, any minister, any of us who have worked on this law. The law was the need to implement the BiH Constitutional Court Decision. And through the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision, we came in a position to have four pairs of municipalities in BiH that have the same names: we have Pale, we have Fochu, we have Kupres, we have Trnovo. It can and can cause great problems in practical work, and it has been a motive for us to try to solve this issue in an adequate way as a technical question. On the other hand, both when making this law and any other law, I think it is the obligation of all who participate in the legislative process to bring the laws in line with the Constitution and other laws and to create an adequate legal system. You have seen that the previous or valid division by registration areas has been made in some way. It was made in 1976 not according to an official international organisation of BiH, because it was not official, but it was unofficial for the organisation of the then social political organisations, so there were ten inter-municipatory conferences of the Union of Communists, 54 youth, unions and socialist alliances, e, these are the ones you have in the registration areas. Meanwhile, the constitutional order of BiH has changed, first it is divided into two entities and the Brcko District. On the other hand, the Federation of BiH consists of 10 cantons. You've probably noticed, but you haven't responded, that there has been a change in the registration areas of the Federation municipalities, that the municipalities of Kiseljak, Fojnica, Visno, Kreshevo, Varesh are still in this... existing nomenclature, I would say, located in Sarajevo, and these are municipalities belonging to another canton. It's the same situation with the municipality of Leado, which also belonged to, I think, Sarajevo, and now belongs there. These are the facts. Another thing we should say when it comes to... Ilidža FBiH; there is the name Ilija taken from the Constitution of Canton of Sarajevo, which is relevant for determining the name of the place in the Federation. And all the names are for the Federation taken from the relevant canton constitutions. When it comes to the application of the law, you have seen that it has been said and that it has been proposed... that it enters into force eight days from the entry into force, which means it will only apply to future home numbers, to those parent numbers that are recorded and are in the records. It will only apply in cases of replacement or change for any reason if it comes, because the situation with the Public Register of Origin Numbers is such that we still have double numbers, we still have people who haven't recorded their home number. There are certain problems, as parallel bodies, parallel institutions worked during the war in BiH, and this is how the proposed division of registration areas enables the quick and efficient way of working of the authorities. Because you see, in the case of a later search in this area, because once an error is made in the register, the path to correct it is a pain in the ass. And if you have to look for the lead that you know is in the Z-DO canton, you have to look for it in Sarajevo, or you have to open up the Kupres register, so you see two Kupres in the female registration area; you have to click on it to hit the real one, and one in Canton 10, the second in RS. These were the practical reasons for this, and there is no policy here, no intention of politics. So, we only wanted to implement the Constitutional Court Decision and the Federation Constitution. If that's a mistake, I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9545	Thank you. Here's the replica. Let's go, now the second vice-president, distinguished colleague Denis Bećirović, first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9546	Well, I could say this is a correction to the wrong assumption. So, counterpart Zjajić said BiH is divided into two entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9547	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9548	I'm glad it was a termological mistake because it's a fundamental difference. So it's not divided, it's as you said yourself now that it's made up of two entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9549	No microphone 55 is enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9550	You had and you spent everything you had.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9551	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9552	Here may be a respected colleague, Šefik Džaferović, who has the right to reply, ask. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9553	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9554	My colleague Kalabić, I can give up, it's no problem at all, I think. I'm just saying that I'm not really going to have a lot of things being said here that deserves to get an answer in a lot of discussions. I'll refrain from it all, I won't participate in it, I'll just say one fact. The home numbers organisation was passed in 2001 by a law adopted by the BiH Parliament, six years after Dayton in post-day BiH. He has his reasons, and I didn't accidentally say, I didn't accuse anyone, I just said that there was a need to learn the relationship of this -- ID cards, people's return, population lists -- these are serious things, so. This is not set by accident in 2001 as set to true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9555	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of a holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics At the 25th session of the House, held on 29 March 2012, the debate on the Proposal for a Law was postponed because the Joint Committee on Human Rights did not deliver its opinion. The Joint Commission delivered a negative opinion on 19.4. I note, according to the last amendments to the House's Rules of Procedure: if the House adopts a negative opinion, the law is rejected, and if it does not accept it, legislative procedure is suspended. Such interpretation will also apply to the following two laws concerning the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. I'm opening an opinion debate. Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9557	Thank you, Chairman. Here, let me at first express my regret that there was no support and enough hearing that one substance that was provided for by this law was regulated in the way that we suggested. But here, let us also, at the end of this procedure, as envisaged and as you have mentioned these amendments to the Rules of Procedure, express the satisfaction that the Commission, the Joint Commission, has initiated, among other things, agreed to initiate amendments to the Criminal Code that would treat acts of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of the Holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity. And here, on the trail of this very finding, which is in the Commission's record, we, as the authorised legislators of this law, are also proposing: 'To be in charge of the Council of Ministers, the BiH Ministry of Justice to prepare and put the motion to amend and supplement BiH's criminal law to ensure that denial, minimisation, justification or approval of the Holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity are regulated, or treated in the Criminal Law of BiH. We put the proposal for a conclusion in the procedure." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9558	Thank you. Another deputy, honourable MP Denis Bećirović, applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9559	So we're discussing the sixth item of the agenda, more specifically the opinion of the Joint Commission. I have carefully read all these opinions of the Joint Commission and the first thing you can see, when you read it, is that there are different reasons why this commission did not support such a law. One opinion says he is unacceptable because "the proposed law," I quote, "represents a classic criminal being and should be regulated as such in the Criminal Law of BiH." Afterwards, the Commission was again in session and now has a different explanation than this. I, of course, won't read everything except this part that the Commission didn't support it, and I quote, 'because this law has a political character.' In view of the Commission's argument, I really want to ask here today publicly at the session what it means to have a political character. What is the classification of the law? As far as I know, such a classification does not exist in the Constitution, not in the law, not in particular in our Rules of Procedure. So let's see what a wording means that this law has a political character. What doesn't have a political character? Here, as MPs, we should get an official explanation from the Commission on this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9560	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9561	No microphone 57 is included
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9562	Well, no one's going to answer. I can't get someone to answer that. No Niko's... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Why would they answer if you didn't have to? So don't go provoking... The seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9565	So, about this and the next item on the agenda, just for a little while. All of what I said last time, the Commission report is identical to the last report. For those who voted against the principles of these laws, it is the majority in the Commission, it is unacceptable as the principle of abolishing the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9566	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to add that we can bring together the debate on the 7th and 8th points of the agenda, so you can apply for a united debate. If you don't mind? Okay. So the debate on the Law on the Court and the Law on the Prosecution of BiH was united, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission. Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission 58 Dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9568	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And just at this gathering of debates that will help us use our time rationally at these two points, although so far, here we are agreeing with our colleagues, we all said everything we had, I can only express regret over the fact that these two laws obviously won't get support, but they don't change that attitude, such a result of voting under these two laws, does not change the dreary picture of the state in bh. Justice. It doesn't change anything, on the contrary, from the initiative itself, it's even worse to today. All the participants in this debate in different ways have made it clear that the situation is in bh. The justice is disastrous, that almost everyone is unhappy with him. I expected those who opposed these two proposals to offer their proposal to get out of this situation. He's gone, I can only interpret that they're advocates of preserving the status quo, or this bad status. You look at the fact that this parliament has learned from the media that BiH's chief prosecutor has been removed, that no one knows the outcome today, that even to this extent we do not get any answers from this parliament. We learn from the media that other prosecutors are burdened with dozens of serious criminal charges and are working on some cases. We read it all, we watch it from the media, and we all agree it's horrible, it's unacceptable. When you look at the Sarajevo press here, here's not to talk about another, and in the media, dozens of pages in the papers are dedicated to the severe forms of crime, crime, I don't know everyone else, from top state officials, and that's how it all works out, so nobody does anything, and here's against these suggestions. Only, I say, I regret that in the meantime no one has offered to say: well, we won't accept this from yours, but here's because the situation is bad we offer that and that. It's just further consent with the party that goes and the judiciary, meaning both the judiciary and the prosecution and everything that's going on. And now we could open stories for hours, and I don't know the rest either, but I think we told it all here, with all the possible arguments, from individual cases to calling for certain historical events and the rest, and it didn't give any results. But I repeat, the results of the vote will not change the picture of BiH citizens about the disastrous situation in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. And I can only say that we're not going to give up our score on the condition and that we're certainly going to look for all possible methods and in another way very quickly to change that state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9569	Thank you. The second vice-president, honourable MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9570	I'll just do it again in the shortest time, so what's a very clear position on us from the SDP. It's a good thing we end this story today, when it comes to the Court and the D.A., in this way. We remind again that the BiH Constitutional Court has considered this issue and made its decision. We are obliged to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court said both the Court and the Prosecutor's Office were formed in accordance with the BiH Constitution. 59 The other important thing is that in June of last year we started a structured dialogue. All those who promised to participate in a structured dialogue committed themselves to a constructive approach during the process. At the beginning of the structured dialogue, top EU officials made it very clear and decadent that the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office are unquestionable. So I think that these two laws, which we knew in advance, will never be supported here in Parliament, I don't think there was any need to burden each other with such proposals. What I am expressing now is my personal opinion, which I think we will need to work on our European path quite safely in the coming time, is the fact that this country needs a European, or that it needs a Supreme Court and I hope that we will get to the Supreme Court of BiH as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9571	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9572	Thank you, Chairman. So, first of all, we'll never get to the Supreme Court, let's be clear. Did I hear correctly: Mr. Vice-President said it was our duty to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court. It's a little bit in my college with a little earlier discussion of amendments and additions to the Code of Origin. By reminding me that the Constitutional Court, in the event of amendments and the addition of the Code on Parent Number, has unanimously reached its decision, unlike this decision, where judges from the two constituent nations, Serbian and Croatian people, have been reputed and decided by judges: by foreign judges and Bosniak judges. So, the work of this Constitutional Court is something that should certainly be the subject of this parliament's work, because this is the only court in the world that does not operate by law, we do not have the Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH. I don't know why. I know that in 2005, the SDS sent the law into the procedure, but for some reason it was declared unconstitutional. Be careful, it is absurd, I remember perfectly, the Constitutional Commission then said that the Law on the Constitutional Court of BiH – the Constitutional Court established in the Constitution of BiH – is unconstitutional, and the Law on Courts that do not exist in the Constitution of BiH has been established. Now, that's the schizophrenic and paradoxical situation that we're in. So, in any case, we remain in the position that neither the Law on the Court nor the Law on the Prosecution of BiH is to be passed in accordance with the BiH Constitution. And certainly, in addition to that, even with his work, the intention of those who imposed those laws may have been the best, but the fact that the path to hell is also paved by very often good intentions. The results of this BiH Court's work and this BiH Prosecutor's Office unfortunately neither lead to reconciliation nor lead to BiH's construction, on the contrary, they lead to dissension, and every day more and more are the subject of conflict and construction of mistrust in BiH institutions. Because when you have no confidence in the rule of law in this country, and it is obvious that at least one nation, if not two have, then we are in a great deal of trouble and certainly this is a question that will continue to be worked very seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9573	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9574	I have to put up a line to our colleague, Denis Bećriović, who just set an example for us how we should successfully negotiate and negotiate. Mr. Bećirović, as you said we knew in advance that these two laws would never pass, so I want to tell you now that the law that speaks of the Supreme Court will never pass.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9575	Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9576	Well, more like a correction to the wrong assumption. Our proposals for the law have nothing to do with the Constitutional Court's decision, because here, if you were to interpret literally what the esteemed colleague Bećirović said, then the Constitutional Court would prescribe what the Parliament of this country will do. The Constitutional Court has said its own, but the Constitutional Court has never disputed the right of this parliament to regulate the state of the country. The Constitutional Court will never interfere with how we will arrange the judiciary, how we will arrange the ministries. And the Constitutional Court never said, "You mustn't change this." He said his position on something, the way his colleagues spoke, but in no sentence did he say that we decentralised the judiciary of this country with our proposal, and we are not handing it over to any foreign state. And then, what's most devastating about this country, today's promotional opinion that foreign officials said they shouldn't be touched. He who holds to his country and to its sovereignty would never say it. Who's a foreign official to say no, you can't do that. He can recommend, he can say what he thinks, what would be good, but no, they said that and they're not laughing. It doesn't matter what you're not laughing at. It's just a sign of what kind of state this is, and what we think of it, any road that goes into Sarajevo so easily gives us the attitude that we can't, what we can't, the one who's mocking this country, who's holding us as a protectorate, who's holding us as morons who are here to listen to any foreign official to live up to this country. We've seen it in the past, and since we didn't stand up to it, that's why we're in it. So don't be surprised when one day these same foreign officials in the corner pull the brake and say, "Well, let's do this." Then you're free to call on historical duration, then you're free to call on sovereignty, then you're free to call on your country, because we've promoted that it's going to be like the foreign official said. Here, let's join, and we'll wait for what's important about us one day for a foreign official to say. I'm just asking you to keep your mouth shut and that since we're the court of officials, since we've left the courts of our party, the courts of our people, the courts of our country, we've now accepted and promoted the court of some minor foreign official, here, and I'm going to sit still and wait for the verdict and the court of that official what I'm going to do and what I'm not going to do here.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9577	Dear colleague Boško Tomić, an entanglement.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9578	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I've been trying to hold back as much as possible from replicas, especially when it comes to an area from which I'm not an expert, but that's exactly what I've been offered. First of all, we tried several times to come to a constitutional basis in general for the debate. So it's said there's no constitutional basis. Now, it seems here that the right is divided into the right that... applies to Bošnjak, the right that applies to Hrvat and the right that applies to Srbin, or at least experts from those areas, depends on which people they come from, that's how 61 evaluates. It's unacceptable, we had a constitutional basis not to pass such a law. There's a constitutional basis now, but principles aren't right, etc. It's not that. It wasn't expected to happen here. What bothers me is that someone gets up in advance, even in previous discussions, you've brought it up for nothing at all – it won't be adopted. So this is where the arguments don't come in at all. And it bothers me like a man. Then we're going to completely confuse things, and there's not one thing we can do. Here's an example: The Chamber of Commerce, when it's said to be a misunderstanding, let's see that we change the law in which we come to a solution because we're all interested in the economy. We couldn't agree on that either. What kind of message do we send to the citizens here? I have to say a completely disappointing message, because this doesn't really make any sense anymore. In fact, right now I have to say that there is fear in the RS that anything that goes to BiH level is not allowed to be a part of it. No, this is now all that goes to BiH level only belongs to one or two people, the rest of us, you can't even, you can talk but you're talking for nothing. That's a bit of a bother, that's what a very ugly picture gives, and I'm in a place where I'm majority in a republic I'd have a little bit more feelings for those who are in the minority and I wouldn't cut and cut and say you're talking about it, because it won't bring us together, we're not going to make BiH the kind of people we expect from us, an objective country that will enter the EU and a country that will provide citizens with a better life. I don't see us doing it this way, I even think we're doing it the exact opposite. Now, you can think of feeling us from the RS, we don't feel safe but we feel a little awkward about all this that we're not able to prove to each other who's right and who's wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9579	Replica, dear colleague Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9580	So there are no misunderstandings, so as far as I'm concerned, any discussion that goes towards repairing the situation in BiH's courtship, to make it more efficient, more quality, more independent, etc. It's acceptable. However, what we cannot discuss is that we are discussing some of the provisions that are set out in the BiH Constitution. So talking about how the Constitutional Court decides is absolutely, simply, let's just say, it's not the office that we here interpret it in Parliament. First, because the BiH Constitution itself is in Article VI. specify the role of the Constitutional Court of BiH, what procedures are within it, what is the composition of the Constitutional Court, what is its jurisdiction and how it decides. As far as I'm concerned, I can't think of anything that BiH's Constitution has solved.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9581	Second replica, distinguished colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9582	In this conflict until a moment ago, I was rooting for the SDP, and now I'm going to go back to the side of the SDA. I'm just thinking one thing, because now I'm thinking all the time, what Mr. Denis Bećirović has just said now, if it's true for Sejdić and Finc, we've done the job. So, please, the Constitution clearly states the rights of three constituent peoples, I am in the constitutional people, I have 62 rights established there, and it writes and written in the Constitution. Is it Tale? Yes, Captain. Here's what it says. He says I don't care. He writes for the Constitutional Court. So, if this principle was just spoken of by my colleague Majkić, when it suits you and that we have passed it all on, really demeaning and the procedures and people who look at us, that we look at it from one of our corners, and even these legal things that are historically set up so that we can't change them in these everyday lives, we come into the situation that for one in the Constitution it's a sacred letter and that what I care about there is that, and the next day, Sejdić and Finci is asking for the BiH Constitution to change. I guess that's clear for all of us. Following this logic, we would... when we said so why would we change that? So it will not be excluded from the RS Council of Europe, but BiH. And when BiH is excluded, we will try to take its place, if you go with that logic, to the Council of Europe. If you want that logic. It's not a good logic, it's not a normal logic. We're asking to change things. If this is for the normal BiH that should be there and that it is functional and that today, these people who have spoken, that we all feel comfortable and safe and in every other way, that no one else is to the end at the expense of others. But this message, what's like in chess when you've been touched off, it's over, but this, you know, what else we need to change because we need it there. Well, guys, I think it's to that extent transparent that this in first grade couldn't go away. We, we completely shut down the dialogue. We're waiting for these foreign officials to tell us what they're going to tell us, and they're acting to the extent that they don't even know where they're going, and they don't know where they're going. A part of them when they come to Sarajevo now is so disoriented that they don't know what to do with us. ________(?) And they won't go anywhere. And they won't go, but they know what to do with them. Now it's time for us to realize that these people no longer know what to do with us, or have more smart suggestions for us; so I guess this is our country to say, sit down and say what we're going to do. No, no, someone there said, "I accept from foreign officials from the EU only a position when they say - you cannot enter the EU until you do so. We accept that.'
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9584	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9585	They're the ones who decide, and I'm done, they're the ones who decide how to get in, but they say 'you'll never get into the EU, but here it's going to be like this,' so I think it's losing every sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9586	Dear colleague Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9587	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I just want to say for a little while that maybe today some of us are going to secretly gloat here, which is what they say today we're going to end up with these bill proposals of yours and we're not going to deal with it anymore, so we can take it off the agenda once. But you need to know today that everyone who thinks and thinks like that, whether 63 you say it publicly or not, that this story and this relationship to these two laws has one other message. Every story can be read in rows and read between rows. In this story, much can be read between the lines, which is that everything that is in the previous period and what the President of Republika Srpska, Milorad Dodik, says today is fully founded and justified and based on our reality and reality, which is that this country has no future and that it has become an impossible mission. When I say that, here's what we have evidence of today, when you say, well, these laws about the Court and the Prosecution won't go through, and we say they won't even pass the Supreme Court law, so we'll see where we come from. On the other hand, we have the fact that in the previous agenda point, when it comes to starting numbers, you say it's not what, is it, is the Constitutional Court's decision, we can't accept it, and now it's said: it's just what the Constitutional Court and the Constitution of BiH said and nothing else. So this is also one example today, one situation from which to understand and to conclude that this country is doomed and thank Bog that, although my colleague drago has said this about strangers, I agree in much part with it, but I want to say one more thing, that thank Bog that there are also these foreign officials who are increasingly aware that BiH is an impossible country and accepts the reality and reality that is at work in this country, and don't take it, don't be affected that when we say we come from the RS, we come from the RS, and it's too great for the Serbian people in BiH because RS is the homeland of that people. And BiH is the country we live in because right now we have to, but this must have its own deadline. It won't last forever, and we'll see how it ends. So I advise and suggest you: let us, if we have reason and if we have good intentions in the work that we do in this House, that we understand one another and that we include reason and see what we can do, be of benefit to all those who live in BiH. If you want us to get stubborn and push ourselves out of line here who's going to break the law more, we can accept such a game, it's not a problem. He's got an entity vote. You guys are gonna do it today, and we're gonna do it at some next session, so we're gonna see how far we're gonna go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9588	Thank you. I'm taking a break until 3:00 for lunch and we're continuing this agenda. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow Members, please take your seats, greetings and congratulations may be after the session. I believe you know where we left off, but also that this break has helped you give up the replica and discussion on this agenda point. And let me remind you that the agenda is a matter of opinion, which is negative, which is about the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, since the debate is united. Anyone who thinks it would contribute to bringing this session to an end and giving up the replica would be very helpful, but everyone has the right to keep it, so we're going in line. _________(?) 64 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9592	I appreciate what you said, and I wanted to replicate a whole series of stupidities that Mrs. Marković said, and, first of all, I appreciate myself and my mental health and for reasons of mental hygiene, here I am giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9593	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: Annual report on occurrences __________(?) Business intervention. Wait a minute, I'm sorry, I thought we were done with these reports by the College Commission, but we didn't. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the draft law supplementing the Law on the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9598	I understand that we're probably a little bit tired, so I'll be very brief and very soon. First, I would like to be explained whether the Ombudsman institution is present or by the President of the Commission: what this formulation means in the Report that the Institution's website is discriminatory. This is what I'm really worried about, and it would be nice to see what this is all about. That's one thing. And now, no matter what this report is about to discuss, I'm just two or three sentences to say. Actually, I have a proposal, so since it practically has this negative report, I don't know how things are going to develop now. I thought that we should have a number of these recommendations, let's say one good example – we realised one recommendation today, that's good – to make one number of these recommendations into our conclusions. And I've tried to extract some... that we could directly and specifically influence. And here's the shortest, so I'd first be in charge of the Ombudsman's institution to provide a review and data on non-executive recommendations, if possible, for as long a period of time as possible, not just for the past year but to give us a review of the unexecuted recommendations and measures. 66 I would also suggest that we recommend to the Council of Ministers and the BiH Presidency that, when determining the budget, if it is not too late for this 2012, try to support this Ombudsman institution, especially this sector that deals with these human rights. They would also call on, or ask the Ministry of Human Rights to finally, if not at least from the Report and what I have asked, if they are not to make a Regulation on how to collect data on cases of discrimination and to establish this central database for the initial acts of discrimination. From what I understand, it hasn't been done yet and it's a legal obligation. And of course, I would like to invite all these legislative and executive bodies in BiH at all levels, if they have not done so, to urgently approach the analysis of laws and general regulations from their jurisdiction from the point of view of compliance with the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. We had an example that we at the state level also had a discrepancy that we had fixed today. So, with the support of the institution of the Ombudsman and the willingness to vote against the Commission's Report, here I am finishing the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9599	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9600	Thank you, Chairman. Certainly the constructive discussion of Mr Belkić, which I absolutely support, I still believe that the problem is not as easy as Mr Belkić stated, and this is seen among other things from this very important report that we have before us today. In fact, citizens' trust is the very essence of the existence of the Ombudsman institution. This trust is built by work and authority. However, the institution, which is not immune to discrimination itself, which ignores the very serious social phenomena of discrimination, which there is no word in this report today and which is why I voted against and expressed a negative opinion, is certain that it cannot have any authority or reputation. This lack of authority and serious results of work, which again results in citizens, as recognised in this report, very rarely address the Ombudsman's institution, in this report is constantly hiding behind a flossula that is constantly repeated in this report, and this is a lack of financial resources to promote the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination. The Ombudsman does not promote his results and his work by walking on round tables, speaking on TV shows about the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination, but promotes his work by solving the problem, promoting his work by helping citizens to solve what he will mediate. It is not the aim of the Ombudsman's work to make recommendations but to intervene to resolve a specific subject. UNESCO's surveys say 15% of the illiterate population lives in BiH, that 1.7 million have a primary school. Now, I'm asking you if these people will come to listen to some lectures on promoting the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination and how much clearer it will be for them, or if it's much more effective for them to hear that the Ombudsmans have warned about political discrimination in employment, and the media is daily full of media reports where, in order for someone to get a job, they must first sign their accession to this 67 or that party. There's not a word about it in the Ombudsman Institution Report, so our situation is ideal, as a phenomenon it's not at all established. Namely, only four cases of political discrimination were recorded in this report. An ordinary citizen will know about the Ombudsman institution when they react, again something the media write about, to which the media, apparently the media do the job of the Ombudsman, when pregnant women are fired without a job, when the question at work is asked first whether you have a family or whether you intend to give birth to someone being admitted to work. Neither did the Ombudsman's voice on discrimination against children who do not have the subject of religious science in the Federation, which was why the media buzzed for days, which is why the minister in the federal government of Canton resigned. So it's not even established here. Furthermore, there is not a word of violation of international conventions on... and discrimination, only accused of one nation's order, specifically from the order of the Serb people before the BiH Court of Justice, who are being discriminated against and only tried retroactively under the BiH Criminal Law. That didn't deserve the ombudsmen's attention. Discrimination is obviously not, again, a number of media reports on the writing, nor when Serbian prisoners in Zenica claim to be discriminated against, beaten, beaten, abused, recruited again, all on a national basis. So, there's no question about these problems here in this report. He says: 'Citizens are very little informed about the possibility of addressing the Ombudsman institution', it says in this report. So whose fault is it, is it this Parliament's fault? The Ombudsmans promote themselves exclusively with their work. It is a shame that this report said that 191 items were in the last year. And I found information that the Ombudsman of Serbia is going to invest 40 to 50 a day, a man gets so many complaints and complaints, but that's why you won't find a newspaper about the Ombudsman of Serbia today that when you open it, you won't: a man has reported on this phenomenon, this law, reacts absolutely to everyone in society. He became a kind of don Kihot, in Serbia they think he is, and I'm going, since I've often heard about a Saša there all the time. So who's this Saša guy? Well, it's the patron of the citizens. Ours, and the ombudsmen themselves admit that out of 1,600 respondents, 70% have no idea who the Ombudsman is or what their job is, and of the rest, those 30%, about 65% knew exactly what their jurisdiction is. There is another major problem, and this is the problem of discrimination, the problem of segregation – two schools under one roof, the need to break this practice – which is highlighted in the European Commission's Report on BiH's progress in the EU's approximation process, this discrimination is said in the Council of Europe's report, this is an inevitable issue that the UN is scolding in its discussions. The UN Committee for Economic, Social and Cultural Rights has asked BiH to create conditions for the removal of two schools under one roof. This problem was only recently, as I saw in the media, and Mr. Pjer Mirel spoke with federal Prime Minister Mr. Nikšić. However, everyone is talking about this problem except for our ombudsmen who say this is an example of BiH's multiethnicity. So segregation and child discrimination is an example of multiethnicity, which is probably why it was not found in this report. I will set another example of discrimination by the Ombudsman Institution. Namely, the Human Rights Commission has received the presentation of the citizen who told us, and stated there we have forwarded to the Ombudsmans, that there is no language of the Serbian and Croatian peoples on the Ombudsman's website. After that, I went and checked, I really must admit, certain statements were made periodically, it's not Serbian, it's converted, I don't know which language, unfortunately on Cyrillic, and then in that statement that should be in Serbian, you'll find words of notice, office, directors or I don't know how. The Ombudsmans, we've met the Ombudsmans with this letter, they've answered that it's a lack of material assumptions, that they have the will to make it and correct it once we've provided them with money in the budget for this year. I must say that there is a version of the site in 68 English. So, BiH citizens who come from the order of two constituent nations are discriminated against here and against those who use English, not only the language of the Bosniak people. And worse, so the ombudsmen are, and I'll tell you, here I asked people who do programming how much it would cost to make that trilingual variant, that's an additional 4,400 round marks, so 4,400 not 40, but 4,400 marks. Eh, further, the Ombudsman's institution has even gone into the field of politics. So contrary to the foreign policy reorientation of BiH, which did not recognise the so-called independence. Kosovo, the Ombudsman's institution did so, and on the Ombudsman's website you also have the link between the Ombudsman's institution and the so-called Ombudsman. Kosovo. And in the end, I will give another example that shows – so I would really thank the Ombudsmans for making me a political marketing example, but they have shown, sir..., I ask the chairman to warn his colleagues behind that they are not getting – there is something that shows: if this is how he treats someone who is a state official, how will an ordinary citizen go? Since I'm running out of time, I'll be brief. Namely, because of my political statement that has been made here, my political stance which is extremely correct and which said: while we live in this country, we Serbian MPs will come to this building and we will edit our offices as we please, let the human rights ministry worker appeal to the Ombudsmans and complain that I, I don't know either, have discriminated, and by some law that does not exist, beware, a law that does not exist, the law on the prohibition of all forms of discrimination of BiH does not exist. That I have covered some acts, irrelevantly which, and ambuded to these ridiculous nonsensees, open the procedure and ask me to declare whether I have broken a law that does not exist, in breach of my right, by the Constitution guaranteed the right to freedom of thought and expression, in violation of my right to Rules of Procedure guaranteed, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representative says that the MP has freedom of expression in his speech. The Immunity Act says the same thing, so the ombudsmen here didn't have at all, nor did they ask for anything in that complaint, I don't know, someone didn't like it; I just came into the situation to caricate the whole situation so I could tell all of my colleagues that we'd discriminated with someone in our statement, just to see if the ombudsmen would get in and out of here a little bit of work to do something about it. And while I still have to, here I am ending the chair, saying what the Ombudsman is saying and doing. The Ombudsman delivers to me the complete personal data of the woman who filed that application contrary to the Personal Data Protection Act. Where is the discretionary conduct of the proceedings? So, I'm afraid this institution is precisely this example of discrimination that shows that these people who work there exist for themselves and not for the sake of citizens. And I, if this report doesn't pass today, invite them to resign and that there, the Ombudsman institution needs us, and that's where people who know and who will do their job in quality and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9601	Thank you. Replica esteemed colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9602	Well, normally, a common source of misunderstanding among people: a termology where, by one term or word, we think of something else, or we don't think of the same thing, so when words aren't exactly defined. My colleague is obviously not at the same wavelength with me when it comes to segregation. Segregation, I won't always say, but mostly defined as violent separation, violent 69 separation. When it comes to the problem of two schools under one roof, it is a technical term or technical manifestation of something called education in BiH or certain parts of BiH according to different national programmes. There's no way that in any case it's about violent separation, but it's always about the right to realize freedom of choice. We in BiH have three dominant national identities. What defines any identity is not only a language, but also a history, tradition, religion, etc. And all of this in its own way must be reflected in the education system. The other important thing about this is that it keeps repeating itself over and over again, and it becomes a bit of a flossula, that we have to work more on the return of the exiles, and that's a permanent task. One of the preconditions for ever starting to happen after the last war was to create assumptions that children – Croatian children, Bosniak children in some cases, and Serbian children – can be educated in their own language and according to their national programme. So that's more than clear, I'm afraid and I think, in the end, it's not just a vague notion of segregation for you, or for all of us, but I'm also afraid of the Council of Europe and some other institutions. Finally, after religious wars between Protestants and Catholics, after their end, we still have examples today that certain churches as objects in Germany are common for Catholics and Protestants, and nobody mentions it as a problem, no one speaks of two churches under one roof as a problem, but it is said affirmatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9603	Thank you. Replica, answer, distinguished colleague Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9604	I guess three schools under one roof should be promoted here, since we don't have that phenomenon yet. Excuse me, Mr. Lijanović, I stole this from him. Here, counterpart Franjičević admitted that this is said to be the problem, the two schools under one roof, that they are also treated as segregation in reports and he argues they are wrong international organisations. Mr. Franjičević, if these children are physically separated, if they go on different shifts, they have different courtyards, different entrances to school, each of their contacts is prevented, so what is it, Mr. Franjičević? I'll tell you: here's my mother, and I'm with that proud, working at a primary school where there are 150 Bosniak children, returnees. These children have lower classes and education in their own language, according to their curricula and programmes, and they come after, they get very nice friends with other children, children are assimilated, they learn co-existence in this country. And no incident in that school has ever been recorded on an international basis between these children. Problems are real parents and problems are in parents' heads. Do we need children to learn from their young legs that they can't play with the one over there, that they can't share the ball with the other kid because it's called Serbian, Croatian or Bosniak? So let's just lock them up right now, so I don't know what we're doing when our kids leave, so it's inconceivable that our kids go to school with the other guy, but we can imagine sending our kids abroad so they can go to school with, I don't know, the UK and so on. I know the SDP in this supports me, thank you and pleasantly.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9605	Dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9606	Well, I don't know if it makes any sense to move on, because you, my colleague, obviously don't know what you're talking about. I have to say it so very harshly, because give me an example, one example in any school that works this way that it's forbidden to socialize children of different nationalities. Really, I mean saying things that aren't actually true. There are schools that operate according to different national programmes, but in these schools it is completely free to come to a school that works under the Croatian national programme and be educated Bosniak, Serbian children, etc., and there are countless cases. And nobody puts that as a problem. There are also schools operating under the Bosnian national programme attended by Croatian children. I was about two or more, two and a half years ago, maybe, and we had a debate at the Federal Parliament and the current current defence minister at the Federation of Mr. Helez, who comes from Bugojna, said that in Bugojn, in a high school that works under the Bosnian programme, he attended over a hundred Croatian children. That's the best example of what this is all about. It's not about segregation, it's about realising the right to freedom of choice. And freedom of choice when it comes to minors is on parents. And it's not about any kind of cakes, but it's simply about making it possible, if we live in a democratic country, that different identities are expressed in the field of education in a way that is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9607	First deputy chairman, distinguished colleague Božo Ljubić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9608	Look, respected colleagues and colleagues, two schools under one roof, actually, even if it's going to sound heretic for some, they were held only where multiethnicity was maintained. And they are actually in the function of maintaining this multiethnicity because they give the right to choose the parents of different nationalities to educate their children with the culture and language and tradition that they have. The idyll you're talking about in RS where Bosniak children have the right to everything that Serbian children have, and also to paint Easter eggs, I can also tell you about the very close me: there is a village on the border of the bridge and broadband municipality where the school with of course is the majority Croatian population and the school is therefore according to the Croatian plan and programme, and a few years ago my little nephew comes home and says he's got two from drawing because the teacher told them to draw Easter. And his mother asks him, so my sister, and did anyone get an "A"? Yeah, he says, Samir. So Samir Bošnjak who's talented at drawing obviously drew it much better than my nephew Nikola. So here's so much to say, going to the parts that are ethnically pure one way or the other. I say this one way or another or by natural means or by the results of the war.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9609	Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9610	I want to rephrase my colleague Franjičević, first of all, to warn and call on a little more personal respect between the MPs, because I think it's incorrect for my colleague to say she doesn't know what she's talking about, a team before she actually hit her right target. And now it would be incorrect that when we don't like what someone's saying, when it doesn't suit our ears, we stick it to those statements: you don't know what you're talking about, etc. And I think we should respect each other. 71 When it comes to this phenomenon of discrimination called two schools under one roof, we have had the opportunity to talk about it on many occasions, but I just want to say that it is devastating to separate children in the 21st century, to separate them into national towers, and even more devastating to defend it. And apartheid classic that happens to be equated with multiethnicity is really inadmissible. And I know it's not, I know this isn't just about the reports, but my colleague Pandurević has really located a huge problem about who, here we are, and everybody else is paying attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9611	Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9612	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My koleginica and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, when the Law on the Ombudsman was passed, there were several issues and we spent a long time here in Parliament in the period 2002-2006 until we passed the law. And one of the issues, in fact one of the questions that was not at all questionable then was the disputed seat, so then whether the three were, or whether one, or two deputies, so there was something, but there was no disputed status of the Ombudsman institution at all. I welcome the Ombudsman here today, I welcome him, one of the Ombudsmans, to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and immediately to say that our task can neither be, nor is to adopt or not adopt the reports of the Ombudsman, because when Parliament begins to do so, the Ombudsman institution ceases. Look at the law. Therefore, there are institutions in this country, the Ombudsman institution, which has a connection with Parliament as much as is necessary for the functioning of this institution and there is no institution that adopts or does not adopt the Ombudsman's report. There are institutions that, and in this key role play this home, demand that the recommendations of the Ombudsman be respected. And I ask you to treat the Ombudsman institution, first of all, this way. Look at the Law, and whatever the discussion of colleague Pandurević there are elements that I can agree with and I will say something about it, but I would ask that when the Ombudsman's report is being treated that neither the Commission nor Parliament are entering into whether they adopt or do not adopt the Ombudsman's report, but take it into consideration, discuss it, say what they think and demand that the institutions to whom the Ombudsman addresses in their recommendations on cases of discrimination, respect these recommendations. This is actually the purpose of the institution of the Ombudsman and this is Parliament's relationship to this institution. So what the Commission did, I think you couldn't vote on the Annual Report whether you adopted it or not. So, I propose that we look at the Law, see exactly what the Law says, to treat this report the way the House of Representatives, or Parliament should refer to that report. Whenever I was in a dilemma with these institutions, when it comes to the work of Parliament and the Commission, whether a report is adopted, or whether it is taken into account with the recommendations and the recommendations being made, I went to this second, because this is a very important issue. To bring down the Ombudsman's annual report means to deny the Ombudsman's institution. Requesting the Ombudsman to advance his work is helping the Ombudsman institution in the BiH Parliament. So that's one thing. 72 I can say on my part that I support this report on the occurrences of discrimination, therefore I take it to my attention and call on all the institutions to which the Ombudsman institution is called to implement the recommendations. On my part, I'd have some suggestions about the work of the Ombudsman, but I think some colleagues, I'm familiar with some discussions that will go that way, I'd like to see you more often in the Bosnian Herzegovina public, to see you more frequently in the media with your reports, with your campaigns, but I think there will be some discussion on the subject already. As for this problem of two schools under one roof, so the maintenance problem, I also think it should be found, I'd like to ask you for an explanation, places in these reports. It may be in some other reports of yours, I don't know, so I can't argue, but we have, people, laws that regulate the issue of primary education, secondary education, higher education, and we have dealt with this issue at the level of regulation in BiH through the common teaching core and it is known how it should be handled. No, by law, there can't be two schools under one roof. The second is that law enforcement is rejected. So it's known that children in elementary school, in high school, should go together, there are common, there are... shared teaching cores, there are special classes, and that's the formula we solved in 2003, while we were down in that 1/I room. That's when we passed that law, and we need to enforce the law. We have a problem with the non-implementation of this law. And I'd ask my colleagues, don't justify it with any right to choose, or anything else, this conflict should be implemented. Kids? So it's possible through this law, because he made sure that children go to school together, that there are shared teaching cores and that there are special classes of objects, and that should be done in such a way. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9613	Thank you. Second replica, dear colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9614	Mr. Džaferović, you are constantly referring to the laws. By what law does it say that there must be no two schools under one roof? In Široki Brijeg, secondary and elementary schools under the same roof have been functioning for decades. So the term of two schools under one roof, no, no, look, two schools under one roof is a term that is manipulation, actually, and what is a replacement thesis and imposed. So when I talk about the term of two schools under one roof, I'm talking about it under supposed signs. Tell me the law where there can't be two schools under one roof.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9615	Replication response, esteemed colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9616	My kolega Ljubić, I appreciate you as a serious man and I am a little surprised by these indifferences you show in the debate on such an important subject. And I ask you to remain a serious man. You know exactly what I'm talking about, don't let these things happen. So, the point of this is that children from one place, regardless of which place in BiH, go to school, 73 go to high school, not to go to separate schools under the Croatian programme, according to the Bosnian programme, according to the Serbian programme, to sit together in class. It's the meaning of this law that there's a common teaching core and that there are special classes of objects when children go and especially study, they refer to language, they refer to history, I don't know what they're talking about. So that's what this law is all about, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9617	Dear colleague Mirsad Mešić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9618	Mr. Chairman, the reason why I'm taking part in this debate today is one worrying fact presented in the way Mrs. Aleksandra said: that out of 1,600 respondents 70% knew nothing about the Ombudsman institution, no way to protect their human rights. Of these 30%, 60% might have known something. I do not think that you have made sufficient efforts to present, present and propagate in the information campaigns that you should have led, in particular in front of the public media that are not asking you for any additional funds, which you do not have, and for this reason I propose a conclusion that reads: 'The Ombudsman's institution in BiH is in charge to immediately implement an information campaign with the aim of meeting bh. the public with the provisions of the Law on Discrimination in BiH, and ways to protect human rights against that institution." For the campaign, use what I've already said. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's recommended that, well, okay, we don't want to be in college with the law, that's right. And given that we have given a solemn statement for the protection of human rights, Mrs. Aleksandar mentions events several times in Zenica, I suggest that we do a little bit of this job, and here I call upon Mrs. Aleksandar, who is not, I will host, to visit all Serbian prisoners or prisoners of Srbin, to see, so if there are violations of their human rights very easily we can solve problems. First of all, by running that penitentiary. So, you'll pass on to the lady, I'll call her and I'll be her host.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9620	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9621	Thank you. Boško Tomić, dear colleague, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9622	Thank you very much, Mr. President. 74 Reading this report cannot obtain one true picture of the overall state and violation of human rights on any basis based on only one report and presented here in this material. I would sincerely like it to be through this report, not getting involved in whether or not we should adopt it, is the attitude of the procedure and the law, I hope that it will tell us whether or not we are adopting it, whether we are adopting it or accepting it – regardless of whether we are adopting it or receiving it to know it, it is very important that Parliament is informed about what is happening on the ground and what is the situation. I think this report would be complete in the part where it would be said exactly in which city, in which institutions it happens, so if it's even in accordance with the law and we're allowed to know what's going on, then I'd think the effects would be better quality, with what if it were said to be, I don't know, in any city, municipality, place, institution, to see exactly. That's what I'm interested in about one other thing I want to talk about. How much discrimination is being done when it comes to special employment, how many cases have you intervened with private employers and how many in the social sector? You know, I believe that this relationship in private and social probably isn't in proportion, because the one in the private doesn't have to complain or maybe it's more pronounced, but I'd like it if we weren't guessing, but based on the knowledge of yours, we'd get to it. Secondly, I guess it's from where these complaints come from that it's usually about educated people and urban environments, and much less in places where people don't even know you exist. Therefore, for these reasons, your role would be to appear a little more often in the public and also in smaller places, and in municipalities, and offer your help. Especially when it's known, if you want to sue the company that made you any kind of discrimination, on any basis, skin color, race, half, I don't know, nationality, etc., you can hardly accomplish it. If you hand that over to the court, then you have to pay the court in advance for a certain amount of money, and you're unemployed, you don't get paid for a long period of time, and you automatically give up on it. And therefore, the role of the Ombudsman would be in this situation if, together with the damaged party and employer, or any other institution and institution, he made contact and pointed out in due time to resolve the problem. For these reasons, I would like to see the next report and who we are discussing bits and pieces, both in places and in areas, etc. I think that would be, and I'd like to know if you have any problems when it comes to financial, material, human, etc., and I'd like to know, in a certain way, that we see whether that's a sufficient number or maybe this number that you have is not in proportion to the work you're working with. In that direction, I would like to have exactly what schools, what places, which institutions, which individuals, that we can react in such a way and that you often appear in public when you find that certain institutions have made certain mistakes. It's particularly hard to prove, because I can see that you have no ability to prove whether or not someone on a national basis is discriminated against, unless there's a court ruling. But we would do well to say that they were serious elements that someone was discriminated against. In that direction, I hope that some of the following reports will give us a little more precise information and a little bit and the public will be more familiar, and we, in our work and action, can influence some things in a timely manner so that it does not come to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9623	Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Second replica, right? 75
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9624	Yeah, I know I'm done. I, for my stenogram, would like to thank Mr. Mešić for his invitation. Since Mrs. Majkić had an initiative that was unfortunately on the Commission so long prolonged, and every day of harassing and scrambling anyone, I don't want to go in at all at this point whether it's Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, why they're convicted, it's all on the side – but no one in this country, anywhere, can be pissed off and I'm happy, here, and I'd love it because Mrs. Majkić and we all got letters, here, you organize whenever you want, whenever it suits you, Mrs. Majkić and I will do it. I must tell you, too, I have had complaints and conversations with lawyers about the harassment and discrimination of prisoners in Foča prison. Well, given that there are colleagues from SNSD here, I hope they will be well hosts, as well as Mr. Mešić, so that they will arrange a visit to Foča Prison, since that's where the warden is concerned, if he can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9625	I think it is good to invite both of us to visit, but that we should return to the Rules of Procedure and parliamentary practice so far where our commission is in charge of the tour. In the last term, I was a member of the Commission and I visited these prisons and established, together with the members of the Commission, what is the situation and what are the problems, so we could go back to the Rules of Procedure and the Commission's way of working and go through it the way it should be done. Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9626	The replica on Miss Aleksandra's discussion. I support your initiatives, useful proposals, etc., but don't ask here that... the political party allows any institution to enter to control, because it's not political parties, it's institutions. Go to the Justice Department and I think you'll have a chance to visit.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9627	Okay. That's what we wanted to say. The second deputy chairman, counterpart Denis Bećirović. Discussion, replica, I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9628	Discussion. We are discussing the Annual Report of the Ombudsman on the occurrences of discrimination for 2011. I want to say a few things. First, I think it is important that we support the Ombudsman's institution in our country. The institution also has its basis in aneks iv.e. And in Annex VI. The General Framework Agreement, and the second, of course, we also have the Law on the Ombudsman from 2000, which has been changed several times afterwards. I would like to say that it would be good for the House of Representatives to provide support and assistance in a capacity in which we can strengthen financial and human resources when it comes to Ombudsmans in the fight for human rights. I think the important message we need to send today is to encourage the Ombudsmans to continue the fight against all forms of discrimination in this country and that it is fair to say, and here at Parliament's pay phone, it is not easy to be ombudsman and to fight for 76 human rights in the state of BiH. In order to have a more effective fight for human rights in BiH, I think we need to change something in the approach itself. And when I say that we need to change something in approach, then for starters we should all be aware that there are no Bosniak, Serbian, Croatian or any other human rights. There are human rights equal for every man in this country. And so it would be good, when we all perform here, to try to speak in principle of human rights equal to all the peoples and citizens of this country. And if someone has the illusion that a few ombudsmen in this country can balance and ease everything that's done unfortunately by a large number of people when it comes to human rights violations in our country, then we're in an illusion. That's why it would be good for us all to perform a little self-critically. Not only are we here to lecture the Ombudsmans on human rights, but to ask ourselves, especially those who are in the executive and legislative authorities, what we have also done to make this country a greater degree of respect for human rights. How much of our statements, our activities, our daily activities have contributed to the knowledge that human rights exist in this country, that they should be respected and that all those fighting for these human rights should be encouraged. In that sense, I would like to say that we in some way need to act in synergy with the Ombudsmans and to realize that we are all on the same task together, which is to protect human rights for all people in this country, regardless of their nation and religion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9629	Thank you. Dear colleague Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9630	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, from one specific angle, I'm looking at all this debate. Of course, today is only about that usual report of a committee that we need to make our decision and discuss a little bit. Our colleague, Mr Bećirović, said well "human rights". Do we even fully understand what human rights are? Judging by today's BiH and everything that's going on in it, we seem to have completely forgotten what that term means, we are terriblely trampling on it. 90% of our ombudsmen's reports, not just about this report that we're discussing, are about what's one of the early human society's cancers since its origin, such as slavery, like prostitution, like the greatest curse of humanity, as a disease... and as of course discrimination in all forms and all possible ways. Discrimination is very old. I often compare her to justice. You know that famous saying of justice has never been in the world, and it will never be, but it is constantly and persistently to be fought. That is the case with the discrimination we often talk about and the most today, unfortunately, we are talking about. Well, she's everywhere, in every segment of the narrow life, you can find her. Here, if we were to be honest with each other, in today's debate, at least three examples, I could call discrimination in this House. Think about if I'm right, honestly? We won't mention what it's all about. I just heard one thing earlier, and that's what's left of me hanging out, as it's said, in my head that someone says we're not all talking because there's already three... A little morgen, you'd say that to each other. Don't do that, please. This is a very serious thing. The Ombudsman system does not know my generation, you who are close to my generation. In that system, we really didn't even know what 77 ombudsmen meant. But the concern of the human rights that such people need to lead, so they need to be some kind of correction, some kind of correction on behalf of us, to be fair, because we are still the largest legislative body in this country, right, even though some here dispute it. Maybe tomorrow they'll ask that Parliament be abolished as well... And it's kind of a discrimination of the psychological one. So, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, let's base on what I said at the beginning. It is true that we need the Ombudsman's institution, and certainly, all these examples that you've been saying, believe me. Have you ever considered that there is racial discrimination in BiH? Are you sure it doesn't exist? Are you sure there are no slave relations in BiH, are you sure they don't exist? So many forms of discriminatory man-to-man relationship are present in this and this BiH today. Unfortunately, we have to tell ourselves that and admit it. Besides, why lie to each other? If it wasn't for that, wouldn't an ombudsman be needed, if everything was honey and milk here? Unfortunately, there's no honey or milk. I ask you to support this report, however unacceptable for some, for one crucial and simple reason: to do whatever is in our capacity to make injustices as little as possible, to make human rights as possible and to be threatened as little as possible, and to make that damn discrimination, which will always drag itself as a parasite with us and with every society, to reduce to the least possible and tolerable measure. I think this is the way to think today's best. But unfortunately, we rarely use it. I hope we understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9631	Thank you. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9632	Your Honor, Mr. President, since I've replicated twice, I can't replicate for the third time but I can debate. I'm talking to my esteemed colleague, Magazinović, to respond to what I can do. Comrade Magazinović, if you want to be a Democrats, and I am convinced that you are, never take for granted the right to allow or not allow someone to speak, because it is a relic of totalitarian systems, whether fascist or communist, and I hope that we have left them behind forever. Secondly, since this is the case with the problems of different education systems in BiH, without actually touching the essence of things, I must say that when it comes to this area, there is an International Convention on Discrimination in Education, which is one of the key parts of the international legal system for the protection of human rights. Unfortunately, I cannot quote an article in this International Convention, but I can paraphrasise it, and it says: there will be no discrimination against the existence of schools that operate on different language-based educational systems, nationality or religion, if it is involved in their work voluntarily. We all have to keep that in mind, I was paraphrasing, but I really said the point, we all have to keep in mind when we're talking about discrimination, segregation and apartheit. And in the end, is the coincidence of what you, Mr. Magazinović, are also pushing for my sincere surprise and distinguished colleague Pandurević, whether it is a coincidence that the highlight of democracy is 78 when it is impossible for a Croatian child or a Bosniak child or a Serb child to attend classes in their own language, rather than being forced to attend classes in another language. If that's the highlight of democracy, then thank you for that democracy. On the contrary, I think this is about discrimination.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9633	Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9634	Is a colleague of Franjičević no longer a replica and discussion? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I quit, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9636	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermin Purić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9637	Thank you. I've got an extra replica, if I can borrow someone to get their co-workers to grow up. Therefore, we are today considering a very significant report on the occurrences of discrimination in BiH for 2011 and there is no doubt that we are considering an institution report that is very important for the process of democratisation in BiH, and none of us can and will deny it. But I am also not in favour of the proposals of certain colleagues here who in some way suggest that the Ombudsman institution be placed under a glass bell and that their work cannot be discussed, their efficiency etc. It is true that BiH citizens have great expectations from the ombudsman institutions, it is true that the great burden of the Law on the Ombudsman Institution has been placed on the shoulders of these people and it is true that the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina have not done their part of the job in terms of creating conditions for their effective work. So that brings us to the two most important groups of questions when we talk about this institution and its role and its work. The first group of issues therefore concerns BiH institutions that needed, could, and should and can do more so that the Ombudsman institution can function much better and more effectively. The second group of questions concerns the institution's work itself. In fact, if today ten and more years after the adoption of this law and the establishment of this institution we have a situation that out of 1,600 citizens from 17 Bosnian-Herzegovina cities, 70% of them do not even know what the BiH Ombudsman institution is, responsibility cannot be transferred to BiH institutions, to this parliament, to the Council of Ministers, etc. This is therefore about the exclusive responsibility of the Ombudsman and the employees of this institution who had to do more to promote the institution itself. Of course, what is necessary in the next period is to meet these requirements of the institution itself when it comes to human and material assumptions for their work, but each must also assume its share of responsibility. So, of the 79 Ombudsman institutions, it must be expected and expected... to deal much more effectively with what it was formed for. In that sense, I will support this report, and I hope that most colleagues and colleagues today will do it with a suggestion, and here I don't know, since the 2012 budget is still a big mystery, I don't know if it's found in the Draft, whether the funds are foreseen, so for this institution. I would like someone to know that information is shared with us, and as far as it is not, so I urge that when adopting the budget, account be taken of the requirements of the Ombudsman Institution for financial support, and on the other hand, I expect more effective work of this institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9638	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9639	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, today the SBB Club is relatively calm, we did not report much, but here I would ask my colleague Franičević to allow where he comes from, which is in Canton 10, that in municipalities, i.e. elementary schools, allow Bosniak children to learn a language in Bosnian or Serbian children to learn a language in Serbian. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, we're saying now that no rights have been violated, and the rights have been violated. And if he's right, then please, please, I wouldn't answer if I hadn't caused this reaction to you if he had a right and no one in that area was at risk. But if we are already talking about one school in Stoc, or two schools under one roof, please at least where you come from allow Bosniak and Serbian children to learn language in their native language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9641	Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, can he cover it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9642	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, this is really a theme for one like this, and I don't know what to say, regardless of what a respected colleague, Džaferović, has warned distinguished Ljubić about a little seriousness, but when I add up all these discussions, I mean, it's hard to stay serious. And don't blame me if I jump out of it, and I'm a little unserious about some things because that's the only way we understand each other. We are today discussing here a report on the occurrences of discrimination provided by the Ombudsman institution for the protection of human rights, as an independent institution, competent, authorized, 80 established by law, to inform us. And in this report they reminded us a little of the provisions of the law based on which they function. A little but enough, if we want to read. But... they're not, I'll remind you, it doesn't excuse us, we should know this law based on who this institution is working on and many other institutions we like to discuss, which we are discussing and know by the basis of what they're doing. And they said they're acting on individual complaints from persons of physical or legal nature who feel that they're being discriminated against. And then they gave us statistics on how much this person came to them, in the places where the complaints came from, and presented it to us. They haven't done much about the discrimination in BiH. Let's hypothetically, here, that they may have understood as my complaint the fact when I warned that the Council of Ministers was appointed with discrimination because no woman was appointed to the Council of Ministers, so that they had conducted the procedure, so that they had made a recommendation to this House of Representatives that this discrimination was removed, I ask you all: would you vote to remove that discrimination? We're asking a question, and I have to say I don't need to defend the Ombudsman's Institution, but because of certain discussions and discussions, I have the impression that we came at a stage where it's easiest to replace the issues and that the institution, which warns us about the phenomena of human rights and discrimination, is being accused of being guilty. Who... violates human rights, who discriminates? The ombudsmen's institution, maybe!? Well, then I guess we should discuss it and prove it to each other. Human rights violates power and no one else, so there's no possibility. Discrimination is done by power or extended hands of power. And they're discreetly warning us. We, by the laws, based on here and European and some other standards, have established a law that the Ombudsman institution does not have an executive decision when it determines... it has no right, has no right to sanctions, it tells those same authorities to remove where human rights are being violated, to remove discrimination. And here there are a number of cases of occurrences of violations, discrimination, but they could have counted, and without individual complaints, they could have numbered dozens of other forms. However, they stuck to the law. The question arises why only 191 complaints, if I remember correctly now, the Ombudsman institution? And it's not their fault. Are you saying the people don't know there's an Ombudsman institution? The Ombudsman's institution in BiH was established, I think in '94, '95, I'm not so sure now. Here, and I have to say when I heard this notion, so I broke my tongue for a long time to learn to pronounce the Ombudsman, the ombudsman, the ombudsman, until I learned to pronounce the Ombudsman, and then I realized that this is an institution that needs to protect the human rights of those whose human rights are at stake. You can imagine how much we knew then about the Ombudsman's institution, and you can imagine how many people at that time complained about the Ombudsman's institution: 10 times, 100 times more. And I ask the question now: why is the people no longer complaining about the Ombudsman institution? It's not these people's fault. So, they saw that from that... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, great, that's right, because they saw that the government didn't respect the ombudsmen's recommendations. That these recommendations mean nothing to us who are attacking the Ombudsman institution. That we're still ready to talk here about protecting human rights. With all due respect, Mr. Mešić, I don't know how you think you're going to take someone to a penitentiary. Well, you can't do that, you don't have the right to do that, and he's right, I don't know who responded to that. Look out, is this a criminal-repair facility at the SDP's Pupils maybe? Well, maybe it is. 81 ________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9645	Chairman of the House of Representatives, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9646	Thank you. Two things. One thing is the Law on the Ombudsman of BiH under which the Ombudsman for Human Rights was established in BiH and another law is the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination in which Article 7 has given jurisdiction to the Ombudsman Institution to enforce the law. These two laws we obviously mix here and we don't know when we're talking about the Ombudsman, the law we're talking about. The Ombudsmen in article 7 had the right and submitted an annual report and, if necessary, extraordinary reports to the BiH Parliament, the Federation of BiH Parliament, Republika Srpska and Brcko District. But also in the position h) where he is conducting research on his own initiative in the field of discrimination today we have neither seen nor heard of any independent report on discrimination being carried out by the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution in BiH, but only solved by citizens' complaints. Is this just the task of the BiH Ombudsman under the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, Article 7 under h) where he is conducting his own initiative research in the field of discrimination, and this should have been an integral part of this report, so that when we talk about the work of the Ombudsman, we are not only talking about responding to complaints but also about independent research in the field of discrimination in BiH and submitting reports, which was his task to do here. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that last year's Parliament of the Federation of BiH, correct me, here and Mrs Nives will then take the word in front of the Ombudsman, that he has received knowledge of the Report, this year he adopted it. Republika Srpska gave a positive opinion on the report. And we here today can give our view of it... I warn you that when we talked about the report on the work of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, we did not even want to give consent that we had received it, because we gave a political stance towards the institution that submitted the report and which, in our opinion, was not adequate. We have the right to say about every institution, because this Parliamentary Assembly is responsible for every institution to say what it thinks about its work. We can never get a report on the work of the Ombudsman Institution because by law we can't, but we can give our position on the report in certain areas that we're getting a report here. We received and heard a lot of discussions today about discrimination in BiH but did not receive an adequate report on discrimination in BiH from an institution that was supposed to work under the law. And we must give our position to such a report here rather than to run away from the responsibility that Parliament has, and to say: there is not one independent body in BiH, the Judicial Council, the Constitutional Court, for which this parliament cannot say its opinion about it, there is not one institution. This parliament is above all institutions in BiH in the 82nd sense of giving an opinion because in this parliament only it cannot be held accountable for the opinion expressed, and it can be given in... institutions. And therefore do not flee from the responsibility and rights that the Constitution has given you. I received a request from the Ombudsman, Mrs. Nives Jukić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9647	Good afternoon. Honored presidents, esteemed deputies, esteemed MPs, MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you. Let me be as brief as possible. But I've just been here all day with you, and I know you're tired, but I still think I could give a brief summary of this report on the outbreaks of discrimination in BiH in 2011, which is the first time that you and I already thank you in advance for a very, very constructive discussion, and thus I will give answers to questions that may not be answered by this report itself. I may have to start by saying, so I'm one of the Ombudsmans, and I'm acting as chairman at the moment, there are three of us. I welcome you on behalf of my colleagues who have been justly prevented and are not here with me. They were last time, so you already know them. The Ombudsman institution has its basis for working and functioning in aneks iv.e. And you. A general framework agreement for peace in BiH. And based on these documents, this institution started working in 2006. The Law on the Ombudsmans was adopted in 2000, and was then amended and amended in 2002, 2004 and 2006. I have worked as an assistant in the institution for many years, and I remember very well the beginnings when it was difficult for all of us to say this word and when the citizens came and asked what the Ombudsman meant. Yeah, this is one Swedish word, I won't take your time, it has a very interesting story about how it came into existence in the Middle Ages and why it even exists. We have taken the original word from Swedish while our countries in the region use other terms, etc., not to talk any further about it. I present here today a report on the occurrences of discrimination. You have already received a report on the results of the activities and work of the Ombudsman Institution, and I will therefore answer only the questions concerning the Reports on the occurrences of discrimination, and very soon we will see each other when we talk about the Annual Report that will be again to you... on one of the following agendas. What am I saying? The Ombudsman institution shall also have special powers under the provisions of the Law prohibiting discrimination. This law is a newspaper. It's not a newspaper in BiH, it's also a newspaper in the region. Under the provisions of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, we are a central institution for the protection against discrimination. And before the law on the prohibition of discrimination was passed, we had the Department against all forms of discrimination, because unfortunately discrimination in BiH is present. We've had complaints about discrimination before. Therefore, this is the first time that we, according to the provisions of the Law on Discrimination, submit this report completely separately on the occurrences of discrimination in 2011. The law was passed in 2008. When I say that the newspaper is today, we cannot speak at all about established case-law, because according to our statistical indicators, there is currently only one final verdict in Mostar and one in Livn in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination where the court has ruled. When you mention invisibility, it is true. We have also stated that 17% of citizens know about the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination and our role. They're researching the NGO sector. But the reason is this: The Ombudsman's institution has so far not received any financial means related to the 83 obligations it has under the provisions of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. I don't have to tell you about the decision on temporary funding and all the restrictions we've had in the past year, so instead of 56 we ended up a year with 54 employees and currently we're working in this department just the head of the department, one expert associate and a consultant. So the basis of this report is individual complaints. And all the complaints we had, under which the parties were called by law, under the provisions of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, are summarised in this report. So we just weren't able to, I don't really know, you tell me what that is that way that we can even do promotions, where we come and tell citizens about the possibility and the use of funds under the provisions of the Law on Prohibition of Discrimination without it costing. Here. I think and personally think that the priority is to solve the case by appeal. ... I don't agree that citizens don't know what an Ombudsman is. Citizens know very well what the Ombudsman is for the very reason that you will, as I have already said, receive our Annual Report where you will see that we have had only 6,000 direct address citizens and 3,067 complaints on which this Annual Report was made. So we're working, here we're only talking about the phenomena of discrimination and according to the rights that the citizens used, according to the provisions of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. This Ombudsman Institution is an independent institution accredited as a national human rights protection mechanism by the ICC accreditation committee based in Geneva. I think you know that we passed one accreditation process and in 2010, we got the status "A" before the ICC and after this process of recreditation. But I repeat, without financial resources it is simply impossible to answer all the questions and, of course, it is enough to see only the Law on the prohibition of discrimination relating to all BiH citizens who recognise all forms of discrimination. And let me tell you that in 2011 alone, there was an increase in the number of complaints compared to 2010, which was 41%. For comparisons, 135 complaints were received in 2010 in 2009. 105 complaints, and now 191 cases are registered in this year. We've made 26 recommendations. Discrimination is very often mentioned, discrimination is a word that is often present but that is to be proved. It is very important to point out that we did not have complaints registered for segregation as one of the forms of discrimination. The phenomenon has already been discussed by the Ombudsman: both entities, and in previous reports. I repeat, this report has no complaints about schools under one roof. It is important to say perhaps at the end: when we talk about our website, our website has all the documents on three language versions. There are also press releases that we alter but unfortunately we don't have the opportunity to do... pages. So to have, according to the technicians, one link and move everything into one language, we already have all the documents in all three language versions, and we give the press releases alternately: once in Croatian, once in Serbian, once in Bosnian. All the problems that this institution has with regard to our management and financial management were also the conclusion of the House of Peoples, here I have, since 28.7.2010, 'to be in charge of the Commission for Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and the ethics of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to hold a thematic session on the work and problems facing the BiH Ombudsman institution for human rights'. We are not yet invited to this session, we will be very happy to come and see here all the problems we have and concerning, I repeat, the financial nature and the monitoring of all obligations that we have under the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination. Let me finally say that if you ask me if there is discrimination – there is. Here we were talking today, so it's enough to open, probably, today's newspaper, if we opened it would certainly be the basis for opening objects and ex-offices, and based only on media articles. But if we don't have financial resources to answer that, if you already have complaints... we're asking 84 citizens to act. Discrimination is there more in the private or state sector? We also don't have a very small number of complaints from the private sector at all. I have my own reason, I have already brought it out, and I believe that citizens and fear to report discrimination, because they simply fear what I report, whether it will be an Ombudsman, whether they will press charges, whether he will lose his job. We all have to work to create a society without discrimination. I totally agree that all this has to do is go towards promoting and creating a society without discrimination. I'm thanking you, maybe I was short, maybe long, but just all of this had to be river. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9648	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 12th point, Ad. 12. Report on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 2005-2010 The BiH Council of Ministers provided the report in 4.4.2012. On the basis of the conclusions adopted at the... session of the House, the respective Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on the Report on 18.4. The Commission adopted the Five Conclusions Report, four proposed in the Report and one proposed to the Commission as follows: 1. A report on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in BiH is being adopted in 2005-2010; 2. The adoption of the Law on collective exercise of copyrights and related rights, "the Official Messenger of BiH", number 63/10, and implementing regulations have established a satisfactory legal framework for collective achievement and at this time there is no need for its amendments and amendments; 3. Authors and holders of copyright and related rights are invited to step up their activities with a view to meeting the conditions for granting a collective exercise of their rights; 4. It is necessary to hire the relevant BiH institution to establish... and the full financial operations of existing collective organisations; 5. The BiH Council of Ministers and the Institute of Intellectual Property should submit a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly once a year on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in BiH until the full implementation of the Law on collective exercise of copyright and related rights. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear colleague Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic, discussed. Here you go. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9650	Thank you very much, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, here, after discussing some other topics, I look forward to today having a topic on the agenda that represents, truth, rare and encountering such topics, but something that represents a report on the functioning of the collective exercise of copyright and related rights system in BiH, which refers to the implementation of this law that we adopted at the end of the previous term after a long series of discussions, that is, a lot of amendments that have been submitted to the draft of the law... This law, unlike the previous ones that we have discussed – these... and all that has been said, I no longer know what it was, how much it is, that is most important to us – this law represents, and this law which is a condition, that is, a criterion for the European Partnership, something that is being financed, and the activities that are being implemented on this plan that have been financed from the European Commission's funds. And, first of all, I welcome the fact that we received a report like this, in which in a short and simple way, what was given under the old law was done in the period 2005-2010 to protect copyright and related rights, until we had this Law on collective and copyright. In fact, we have had and is still partially, is not, these relapses of this previous law, or the non-existent legal regulations, are that copyrights were protected by profit organisations. Nowhere does such practice exist and it is not possible for companies engaged in other activities other than these to be copyright protectors, or authors and their copyrights. Here we have in addition to this report and four examples, four organisations that still exist and which, in my opinion, are not legitimate representatives of organisations, i.e. cannot be legitimate representatives or organisations that protect copyright. They can only be professional associations, standing associations that need to protect authors, or their copyrights. So this law that was passed required, as some key law required the adoption of a series of sublegal acts. I must say that even in previous reports, how the reports we have received from those who are following our progress towards the EU have been praised by the initiative, both Parliament and the Institute of Intellectual Property which manages this process and which, after the adoption of this law, adopted a sublegal act, certain regulations, then organised education. ... It's not like we're in Europe, where we want to go, is it, in the streets, we have all kinds of stands where pirates sell both books and CDs, or video or audio recordings, etc. The Institute also printed out the brochures and one, let's say, not for the general public, which may have to be done in some campaign, but at least those interested he was familiar with the existence of this law and the provisions of this law. We don't have enough effects here that this law has won, because this is a process, so a process that needs to be further built. A lot has been done and I think it is early to appreciate the overall effects that should be much greater in the application of this law, especially as regards the protection of authors and their rights. The author of any kind, and I purposely note, because here is the most about the authors of musicians and those who do production, the ones who broadcast it. But here and when this law was passed, and it wasn't spoken now, I guess that means that it shouldn't protect the copyrights of those who write books, so it's rare that those who write something can just share it, because they can't sell because someone else is selling their work. I considered it necessary after these discussions on other topics to open this as one of the examples that, if we persist, we can work on BiH's European path with concrete examples, not only with criticism and a return to the process. And secondly, I propose that we adopt this report, 86, to adopt the conclusions proposed here and wait when organisations that will be legitimate representatives of the authors and really protect their rights, not profit organisations, which, as they were in the previous period, in fact only protected their material interest, and took away their little rights or forced them to be their protectors, i.e. those who would collect in their name the funds. Here, so much and truly I suggest we adopt this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9651	Replica, dear colleague of Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9652	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, only one small addition to what the distinguished colleague Zaimović was talking about. The problem in BiH has arisen from the fact that profit organisations were engaged in this part of intellectual property, in such a way that they exclusively cared and cared only about how they would provide and reverse certain funds belonging to the authors. The problem is probably also in these sublegal and legal acts which have not been sufficiently binding, neither the Institute of Intellectual Property nor the licensed organisation, that they must provide correct and correct data and statistics on how all those who use intellectual rights do so and how they relate to their obligations regarding compensation to the authors. I am pleased to say that I know that an activity has just been launched that has led to the BiH-level authors organised themselves into their professional organisation called AMUS, which expects a license from this Institute of Intellectual Property, and we believe that they will change the situation that is currently in BiH in this field, in such a quality way that they will care about the rights and everything that belongs to the authors according to their rights. What concerns this report is that the Institute of Intellectual Property is aware that there is a overlap between the competences of those whose licences have been issued, but nothing on this issue has been taken and this is the situation which has led to further harmonisation of this problem. So we expect that in this next annual report, which (in the conclusions that I think should be supported) we will also have information that AMUS has begun to care for the collective rights of the BiH author. And I am taking the opportunity to invite the Bosnian Herzegovina authors also to exercise their rights through a professional organisation in the country, and not to be members of the association and organisations in the region in which, in a faster and easier way, the truth, exercise their rights now, and return to their professional organisation, thus strengthening it and giving it the opportunity to work in their interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9653	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9654	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, at the session of the Constitutional Legal Commission, the right to tell you, I was positively surprised by the atmosphere. There came a number of authors who were involved in this organization and followed the work of the Constitutional Commission, showed great 87 interests, along with several representatives of the Institute of Intellectual Property whose director is present here today, which I also welcome. I believe that Parliament's role in democratic society is far beyond just considering and voting the law. Parliament's role is also in creating a solution, of course, in considering the law, but also in implementing the law. And it seems to me that this is one of the areas where there is a will both by the Institute of Intellectual Property and by the Council of Ministers and by us from Parliament, so I would say, and professional associations, that the role of Parliament in monitoring the implementation of the law takes place until the moment until the law is fully implemented. And in this context, when we adopted these two laws in 2010 on which there were many amendments, we also adopted conclusions that after a time, after a year, we have a report on the implementation of these laws. Here, this has now arrived on the agenda and I call on you to support the Institute of Intellectual Property Report, with a proposal of four conclusions proposed by the Institute and with the fifth conclusion that, together with these four, the Constitutional Commission, on the proposal of the author and he says: 'to continue to monitor this area and that every year we have a report on the implementation of these two laws, so the Law on Copyright and Other Related Rights and the Law on collective exercise of these rights, until the final implementation of the law'. This team before I think this is a very important area when it comes to BiH's European path. BiH has an unsettled situation in this area, and it will be a lot of work to implement these two laws that are otherwise in line with these European standards. You can see from the report that the situation is getting better. It's not good, but it's been better since 2010. There is no need for changes in the law, it is an assessment of the Institute of Intellectual Property, but it has the need to help both the Institute and the Council of Ministers, so to the executive authority, by Parliament to implement the laws as soon as possible. And I answered the most for the word, so not to say what I said, but to say one thing that wasn't written in the report and it was recommended to the Institute of Intellectual Property at the Commission's session. We believe that in addition to this annual debate here in Parliament, and before that on the Commission that will be based on the Institute's Reports, which I hope today is the House of Representatives, the Institute of Intellectual Property should organise a public debate throughout the year, so in its organisation, if necessary here in Parliament, with all organisations that are interested and simply make it clear to the public what is going on and thus animate everyone interested in this area in order to introduce order in BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9655	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9656	Thank you, Chairman. I will be brief after distinguished colleagues and colleagues Džaferović have said everything more or less. I have to say that by really reading this report, preparing for the Constitutional Commission, I was very pleasantly surprised, because this is one of the more quality reports that has gone into the core of the problem it is dealing with, which is in front of us. And it is clear from this report that people who are dealing with this problem have both the will and the knowledge and that they want us to solve this problem, and these wills are obviously not missing in 88 of this Parliament or in the other institutions that deal with it. And I'm sure this report is more extensive than even what we've been looking for and showing where we've been for a year, and where we've been in the last year. I see also the indications, and we have therefore suggested this fifth conclusion, that in a year, I am convinced not only that we will have a report that will tell us what the effects of the law that was passed last year, but I expect that the Institute of Intellectual Property, not to expect but I am sure, if some of the shortcomings of the law are shown in the meantime, that they will certainly prepare us here and make some amendments. That's why I really support all of what the distinguished colleagues have said, all of it stands, and my colleague Džaferović and, of course, also join this invitation to make these four conclusions proposed by the Institute plus this fifth, which we unanimously proposed to all members of the Constitutional Commission, to support them all here together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9657	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I would like to say that this report has come from the Council of Ministers, yet I thank the Director, Mrs Lidija Vignjević, who has followed this report here and all those who have worked together with the Director and staff since 2006 on this law and are now happy that this report has been found in Parliament and that all MPs have spoken affirmatively. Congratulations again and thank you. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Report on the Agency for Postal Transport of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Financial Report 2011 In accordance with Article 10(9) of the Postal Act, the Post Office provided the Report 4.4. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications 17.4 submitted its opinion on the Report. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9659	I believe that we have all received reports on the Agency; I want as a member of the Transport and Communications Commission, especially colleagues and fellow MPs to meet briefly, because so far we have, according to these previous reports, had several, not to say unusual statements, comments, discussions. I wish, first of all, knowing the Agency's problem and this area, I can just say that they are really one agency that we can welcome and support business in the way they do business, with the fact that I don't want to exclude that they have no problems. 89 I want to share this report, or I want to share the discussion in two parts. So, the good one and the one that would say negative, that is, what is considered to be the problem of that agency. First of all, what is it that can be good things? They were practically in the previous year able to bring in a methodology for calculating the final stage costs in interoperable postal transport, as well as transit costs in international postal transport. A decision has also been made on a single tariff policy for... postal services. Activity has been completed on the preparation and application of instructions for handing over court letters, which I also find very important. Procedures for amending the Decision on the amount of costs for issuing licences at the level of annual fees for the provision of postal services have been initiated. Representatives of the Agency have also been intensive in their contacts with the same institutions in the environment to provide new knowledge of the processes concerning the issues in question. When it comes to their problems, i.e. the Agency's problems, it primarily refers to insisting on a continuous reduction in their budget. The second thing, they also have problems with filling the basic positions from job systematisation, without which the Agency cannot realise the effects it has given under the obligation. Then, they also have problems with capital investments. However, the problem of number 4, i.e. I have defined both on the one hand and on the other hand five of some and good and, let's say, troublesome things, the fourth of those considered as one, in a way, of the key problems of the Agency is only the problem with the delivery of accounts and financial reports, and where the delivery is done exclusively by non-licensed legal entities or persons. But the fifth, like, let's say, is considered a problem of the Agency, and that's the problem of making postage stamps with only entity characteristics. I hope, given all the above, both, and both, and the good and those, let me say the negative things, I believe that it is necessary for the Post Office to continue with this pace and dynamics so far, i.e. quality and as best as possible by applying both our laws and international conventions as a primary traffic law. So personally, I, and I believe my colleagues from the SDA, will support this Agency's work report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9660	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Report on the work of the Management Board of the BiH Export and Credit Agency for 2011 In accordance with Article 14(3) of the Law on the Export Credit Agency of BiH, the Management Board of the Agency submitted its Report 4.4, and the competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs delivered its opinion on 17.4. 90 I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear colleague Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9662	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In fact, last session of the Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, we had the opportunity to get acquainted with the materials of the BiH Export and Credit Agency and hear the problems faced by this agency, which is responsible for providing guarantees to our export-oriented companies, and for factoring and insurance activities. Unfortunately, IGA’s situation and operating conditions have not changed at all, or improved from our previous report, unfortunately. Due to the limited financial resources of IGA, the necessary and non-executive recapitalisations, due to the inability to associate abroad as well as legal deficiencies and indeterminateness, namely, the Export Credit Agency Act does not allow IGA to grant guarantees for export contracts on behalf of and on behalf of the State, and IGA's work is difficult. I think it's finally true that the time has come for us to be more actively committed to the listed agency and expand its diapazone. So, we're not limiting the diapazone of its action, like, what we have done with the Central Bank, which has limited, i.e. there is no possibility to limit the bonds, as well as that there is no possibility of carrying out the bank's last resort operations, which are quite normal activities, so central banks in the west. The importance of factoring itself is witnessed by a number of studies and research related to increasing liquidity and the performance of export-oriented companies. Factorial uniting within itself and financing services, credit protection and more efficient management of the claim. I also think that the importance of giving guarantees for export needs really does not need to be further discussed. So yesterday, i.e. the day before yesterday, our esteemed IGA guests turned our attention to giving a guarantee behind which the state would reduce the cost of giving a guarantee by 1.5-2% and improve the conditions of issue in terms of manuality. So we would have the possibility, or our agency would have the opportunity to provide long-term guarantees. Therefore, in order to support our exporters, it was given my initiative at the beginning of the session, and regarding the change in the lack of an existing IGA Act. I would once again like to thank Mrs. Kozarić and therefore to the entire team for this report that you delivered to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9663	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9664	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a report from a BiH institution that has reached a very high level in its effectiveness and efficiency. And in this respect any realistic approach would give quite high marks for the work of this agency in the past period. 91 However, what I want to point out is that the Agency has so little funding capacity, i.e. so little financial potential, that this fact is sharply cut by what I said about building institutional capacity. In fact, this agency could be much more supportive, above all, of export-oriented production, especially in two sectors, the wood and metal sectors, for which market and marketing research have produced quite transparent results in the information itself. The agency has a volume of activity in 2011 of 213 million in which loans and loans are 32 million, insurance 65, factoring only 14 and guarantees for export jobs are about 100 million. If we have in mind that HBOR, the Croatian agency, which has a similar profile, only combines that development function that our development banks are uniting, if we evaluate it and we actually state that HBOR has about a billion euros in capital available and has an activity of around 3 billion euros, while our IGA has some 57 million capital and these 213 million marks, whether or not the activities, we can see how disproportionate the role of the Agency is with the needs of export organisations and how worrying the situation is in this respect. In fact, we all see in the export orientation, i.e. in exports, the driver of economic growth and overcoming this stagnation in economic development, above all, and in employment. And the role of IGA could, in that sense, support one, you could say, from the leading strategic objectives of economic development. Therefore, above all, there are conditions for companies themselves that show the need for greater support from IGA which could result in higher jobs and higher employment, greater capacity awareness, so that there are indeed all economic and social conditions that IGA and the need to support IGA more strongly in its own expansion. The purpose of my entire exposure is to propose to the Council of Ministers to take measures to strengthen IGA's credit potential in order to meet the growing needs of the BiH business community and contribute to the country's faster economic recovery, based above all on export orientation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9665	Thank you. Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9666	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'll just remind you that we have as part of the agenda a report on the work of the Management Board, so not on the work of the Export Credit Agency. But here, I will take the opportunity precisely to formulate the agenda point to mention that the Agency's engagement and all the good that the Agency has done is done thanks to the Hope Committee which, behold, to mention that it has expired its mandate. But Mr. Milomir Draganić deserves indeed, and his team who led the Agency, to mention, among other things, that this agency has certainly not done, could have done much more, but had done many good things. If nothing else, she drew attention to all those who may have been skeptical about supporting a state institution that does not operate with budget funds, again to remind, export support, or strengthening the export capacities of the Bosnian Herzegovina economy. 92 I fully agree with what counterpart Martinović and counterpart Domazet mentioned earlier, and in this sense I appreciate the good initiative which today and at the beginning of today's session, Col. Martinović, in terms of amending the Export-Credit Agency Act, because in these difficult and turbulent times and such a modest Bosnian-Herzegovic economy really deserves and has the need for perhaps and special attention in terms of guarantees for good work. In this respect, perhaps it should go towards opening a state guarantee account, which would certainly contribute to the improvement and overall economic performance. I would like to mention, in particular, that the amendments to the laws, which were previously referred to, among other things, would give this Export Credit Agency a mandate to provide guarantees for the State's account and export contracts, which would certainly cost the guarantees to clients, and would allow the Agency itself to get greater restrictions on the banks, which is more important today than it was a year, two, five, etc. And certainly this Parliament, or the Council of Ministers, should also consider when considering this law, i.e. amendments to the law and Parliament when discussing the budget to the next budgets, or the next budgets, the modality of perhaps the recapitalisation of the Agency, which would certainly provide additional wings for all the functions that are imagined, in the case of the Agency, one agency of this kind. And here, I want to mention myself the report on the work of the Management Board, which can really be positively assessed thanks, among other things, to a positive assessment of the work of the Agency itself. The report itself on a positive assessment should be a report on the work of the Management Board itself, which ended the term of office with Mr Milomir Draganić. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9667	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9668	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear fellow representatives, guests, I would like to say, in fact, to support this information when it comes to the Management Board, and therefore, if I support the Management Board, so does the Agency. It's one whole that worked well, worked, had certainly positive results. But we'd be much happier if they were... in much larger numbers and we made it possible for it to be so. I think it is more clear to everyone that BiH cannot survive economically unless it makes all its structural reforms, and I think we have opened this issue through point 3. Perhaps it would have been good if it had been one behind the other point where it really would have been one whole and it could have been shown that all together in one synchronised action can literally produce a result. If we want to go to the international market and try this game, then we certainly can't do it without such instruments as what is offered here and this product palette, if we can say so, offered through IGA. This is why I support all these initiatives, both in terms of guarantees and in terms of capitalisation, and I don't think it's a problem at all to secure the funds that would go in the front row when it comes to capitalisation and as a means of lending, regardless of what we have our two development banks that have an entirely different role, or we can leave it at home. And I also want to say that two years ago I launched this 93 initiative as a minister to do something with this bank. Unfortunately, there was no political support at the time. I think they're a little bit more aware and that time has been created and that we can talk about it now, so for this initiative, it really... because our real sector is expecting this from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9669	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Kolegijum report on efforts to reach agreement on proposal for the conclusion of MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović You got the report. The college as a commission has failed to achieve consent. We plead in the second round on the proposal for a conclusion. There's no discussion about this. Point 16. Ad. 16. Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on MP Mirsad Đugum's initiative
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9675	Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, at the 15th session, I launched this initiative, in fact motivated by our impasse in the process of Euro-Atlantic integration and obviously, since the committee in charge did not support this initiative, I am afraid I was not well understood. Namely, it was not a motive for launching this initiative to question in any way the existing foreign policy orientation of BiH established by the relevant institutions in BiH – the Presidency, Parliament, the Council of Ministers – which is, of course, defined as the direction of Euro-Atlantic integration. From the very explanation of the initiative, it is particularly evident that the main motive for proposing this debate was, in fact, our stalemate on the European pathway. Many missed opportunities, and our behavior about many European reforms, is actually challenging our ability, and even our commitment on this path could be said. Because only if we go back a year and a half ago, ever since this Parliament works or somewhere, and if we see how many laws we passed and if we know that only the acquis communautaire in the current capacity contains about 80,000 laws and various legal acts, many of them in the jurisdiction of both this Parliament and the institutions, in fact, which are based on this Parliament, then we actually have to ask ourselves how much we are actually able and committed to move faster this way. However, this initiative, too, meant that the debate was held jointly in both homes. As we received the initiative the other day at the College – and it is in the process and I hope that it could be found already at the next session – from counterpart Senad Šepić, who is wearing the title "The current position of BiH on the European path – meeting the obligations from the BiH Road Map and progress in the European 95 integration process", to streamline, unifying the debate, because it is actually the same matter, here I propose that we bring this initiative together or join the initiative of colleagues Šepić and then discuss this issue as a joint initiative, the more that the NATO integration process goes in a special direction, and this morning she said something to her colleague Majkić, so that my initiative also focuses on this process of European integration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9676	Thank you. Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9677	Ma, thank you, I'm thinking whether it makes any sense more after Mr. Ljubić's discussion, or a proposal at the end of your discussion, but here, I need to explain, although, of course, the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Commission, who is unfortunately absent today, but here there are other members of the Foreign Affairs Commission who can, among other things, confirm why the negative opinion is being taken. I must express regret that the Commission was sitting in the day when Mr Ljubić had important communications and meetings, it seems to me in Mostar, physically unable to attend the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Commission. We did not take the initiative off the agenda because it has been in the process since 8.11. initiative, but we were convinced that Mr Ljubić was present to formulate the initiative a little bit differently, i.e. an explanation, given the course of time and what happened in the meantime, which you did, among other things, and mentioned in your opening statement. I'll just remind you that part of the reasoning applies to those laws that were in the procedure as part of that European package – the List Act, the State Aid Act, etc. – where the procedure has already been completed. The Council of Ministers, meanwhile, has already been formed, etc. But I must also mention that the Commission's position was more initiated by perhaps making one reformation... the explanations of this point of the agenda, i.e. the initiative, or to bring it together, or to consider this content that was initiated by the merger that was planned, as we were informed. Joint discussion – Presidency, Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Parliament – each one of its responsibilities when it comes to foreign policy, considering exactly what you have done in the title of your initiative in particular as an apostrophe. I would like to mention that it was indeed regrettable that perhaps if the promoter had not been there, that we might have responded immediately to the Commission and put together some views, but, behold, the Commission had to show itself about a document which has already been in the procedure since the 11th month. Mr. Bosić, Mrs. Marković, and there are still other members of the Foreign Affairs Commission – I can add something, I spoke exclusively for myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9678	Thank you. Dear colleague Senad Šepić. Here you go. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9679	Here, I just want to say briefly: So I agree with this proposal by my colleague Ljubić. We will prepare this joint initiative to bring together both our initiatives and to conduct joint discussions. ... I think all the discussion in that direction was okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9680	Dear second vice-president, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9681	I think it is not good for us here to open any debate on BiH's foreign policy, and not to hold a conversation with the BiH presidency in the preparation of any such agenda. The first constitutional authority of the BiH presidency is the conduct of foreign policy. And that even without talking to the BiH Presidency, we are now in a position to open up some broad debates, and that we will not even talk to the predsjedništvo on the subject where people are solely in charge of foreign policy, I think it would be a complete failure of this parliament. It might be good, then, to consider doing some consultations with the Presidency, and we should not go like this and crash into these points of the agenda without completely ignoring what the constitutional powers of this country are. So, it would be good to make, if we were to hold joint sessions of both homes once in a while, try to prepare these sessions. It is not the purpose of such a joint session here to create a circus in Parliament, a play for the media, etc., that, under the circumstances, we argue, apologize, without any effect. If we want a serious approach, then it implies that we make certain communications with all the competent ones, and above all with those in charge of foreign policy management.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9682	Thank you. Dear colleague Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9683	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I volunteered as a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission. It is true that the Commission has given a negative opinion on this initiative for a number of reasons, but I am not going to elaborate these reasons now, but I want to say two things. What I wanted to say first to my colleague Bećirović has already said. So, when one of these broad topics is put in place "the gender-political orientation of BiH", it is inevitable to carry out consultations, talks, or to have a joint discussion with the Presidency, which is the primary activity and competence of the institution. But since colleague Božo Ljubić said that in some way he was joining Mr. Senad Šepić's initiative, then I think that this is how your initiative was set up with what we heard was going to be a topic for the discussion that my colleague Senad Šepić is going to run for me rather, it can't be said that they are completely identical and that it can only be connected and let's say let's do that now and talk about it. The story of Euro-Atlantic integration that you are going to run for is completely, to say 97, in the spirit of this moment and what is very important and useful for BiH at the moment, and the foreign policy orientation of BiH does not mean only the euro, although it can mean Euro-Atlantic integration, but it is only one of the segments that can be observed and elaborated there. In my view, the issue is very important, let's say, the efficiency and work of our diplomatic consular offices, the behaviour and efficiency of our consuls and ambassadors, which is very, very problematic in certain cases, and therefore I think that this subject, or that you, I suggest, or I suggest you join and support what counterpart Šepić is going to run for in order to discuss what is really current, useful, necessary, and to say urgently at this point that we are talking in Parliament, when it comes to this foreign policy orientation of BiH in the direction of Euro-Atlantic integration. And this theme is yours, and that is why the Commission – one of the reasons was with the Foreign Affairs Commission why it gave a negative opinion – which is why it requires a very, very extensive preparation to put one such topic on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9684	Replica, dear colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9685	Well, look, it's not about that, actually, I'm sorry as if I wasn't listening again today. I would like to say that the security issue of a debate on such a broad problem as the foreign policy orientation of the state deserves, as some colleagues discussed, the participation of all relevant and responsible BiH institutions and the Presidency, regardless of our relationship with the elected members regarding their legitimacy. But I'm also sorry that I couldn't be at this committee's meeting to actually explain in the way I explained it today, but the text of the reasoning could actually show that the whole explanation is actually about European integration, that it's not here at any point, I think, not even said Euro-Atlantic. Therefore, I am absolutely staying on the stand to join this initiative, therefore, the initiative of counterpart Šepić, which is said to be and that we are not spending any more words on it here, because again I would like to say that regardless of the different views on joining NATO that could have been heard today, it is clear that the institutions in BiH, including the Presidency, have brought foreign policy orientation on NATO and therefore I do not want to trouble and reopen the issue. And so once again, I say, I join this initiative and let it go the way it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9686	The word has the chairman of Živković's House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9687	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I think I've already discussed this subject before. It was about business problems related to initiatives and the exercise of the right of MPs to propose initiatives. First of all, we have here a mass of initiatives, just on today's agenda, and I'll remind you that three initiatives are being declared in the second round of voting, and that we are currently discussing two initiatives, now one, on the next one. Mr. Šepić's initiative went to 98 commission stages. From colleagues from the SDA, the initiative is also headed towards the Administrative Commission. First of all, the vague initiatives put forward in the Parliamentary Assembly and the largest number of failed initiatives because the agenda was not exactly defined, put in the title of initiative and reasoning. Please focus on proposing an initiative with a clearly accurate agenda that should be here. I laughed today when I read the draft agenda on the initiative. So don't put us in that position. Clear and loudly define what your initiative is and a proposal for this agenda to discuss. The explanation is an integral part of the initiative, not a part of the agenda. We're here to discuss what the writer wanted to say about the initiative. How can you join Mr. Šepić's initiative when his initiative didn't even come to the commission stage? How do we know that this initiative will pass by from Mr. Šepić and you propose to join his initiative, and we have not voted on your initiative. Let's respect the Rules of Procedure, let's make some order here. If we don't make the order, we won't be able to do it right. Please, loud and clear, the initiative should read as the agenda point should be, the explanation is an integral part of the initiative, and we should discuss here and so return to the Rules of Procedure. We will vote here on this initiative, unless the motionor withdraws the initiative. The promoter can withdraw the initiative, we won't vote on it. What he's gonna do with his initiative, whether he's gonna... someone else or not, it's his business. But don't join any initiative that hasn't even come to the commission stage. Thank you. Of course, the promoter has the right to withdraw the initiative. He can do it now or during the vote, it doesn't matter. In any case, we move to the 20th item of the agenda: Ad. 20. Declaration on the initiative of MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović He addressed the initiative at the 24th session of March 15th. The Commission for Foreign Trigovina and Customs submitted its opinion and supported the initiative on 17.4. I'm opening an initiative debate. Here you go. Proposer: esteemed colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9689	Thank you. The initiative on this topic and this item of the agenda will certainly come to this parliament, but I am afraid that if it is like last year in 11 months, then it will be quite late because of the situation in which BiH is now, because today we had a minister, which is exactly what this topic is about, and that is why I wanted to hurry up as soon as possible, and as far as I am aware, in the coming week, the Federation Parliament will discuss this particular issue. It would be good for the RS to start as well, so the Council of Ministers can bring it together and that 99 of us have as soon as possible because of the situation we've heard about here today in the area that we're talking about. And I think this should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9690	Mr Lijanović, I will read your initiative: 'In accordance with Article 8. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament's House of Representatives, I am launching an initiative to hold a session's session, so, well, you're looking for a session, not a part of the agenda. Please wait, I will give you my word, you are looking for a meeting of the House of Representatives on the subject: 'Status of Agriculture in BiH'. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9691	Oh, here's a little short. And I share your opinion when it comes to these initiatives. The question is both purposefulness and efficiency, and when it comes to time and waste and the effects we achieve, it's quite questionable, but I don't think I'm denying the right of people, etc. So, when it comes to a concrete initiative in which a thematic session is sought, I would just remind this parliament that we have an initiative to consider the "Economic situation of BiH" agenda, launched on 24.11.2011. It was also supported on January 19th this year. So this says that without good coordination with the resolution ministry, institutions, etc., the question is whether MPs in their capacity can provide material. Mr. Ivanković, who will provide the material for this? The Council of Ministers? Come on, do you think 'Economic situation in BiH' includes what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9692	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9693	It doesn't, does it? All right, I'm sorry, Mrs. Majkić. I thought... that agriculture was also in the economy. Yeah, I'm sorry, I didn't know, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9694	Please don't throw it away. Everyone has the right to say what they want to say. I don't have any more applications for this topic. I'm closing the debate. We're going to point 21 again on the Ad initiative. 21. Declaration on MPs' initiative Zijad Jagodić 100 A statement on the initiative of MP Zijad Jagodić, who submitted the initiative at the 24th session of the House, held on 15 March 2012. The committee responsible for human rights, children's rights, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics delivered its opinion on the initiative on 19.4. I'm opening an initiative debate. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, you didn't sign up, it's a last-minute application, right? Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9696	We're tired, it is the last item of the agenda, but here's what our initiatives are like, here's the example of this present one. I think that if Mr. Jagodić had realized all the repercussions could have this kind of initiative, then he would never have submitted it. So, as you can see, it's about him getting... a letter, we, none of us getting such a letter, none of the Serbian representatives, so none of the Serbian representatives, I don't know about others, none of the Serbian representatives got this letter, so that first we finish it so that we don't all get it, we didn't get it, where it's said that a lawyer is probably in charge of representing and defending Mr. Tariq Mahmood Ahmed El-Sawah-Sawah, real Bosniak name, in front of the U.S. military commissions. It says here that this recently read type has been a BiH citizen since December 2001 and has been in Gvantanamo prison since 2002 because he has been accused of co-operation with Al-Kaida-Qaeda. The man asks Mr. Zijad Jagodić to help free himself, and Mr. Jagodić through the Parliamentary Assembly, the official legislative... of a country, to engage in the irregular work of the US judiciary and release him after 10 years of serving the sentence, to free him from prison at last. So he's being put into the act of terrorism. I remind you that in the end here he says that Mr. Sawah is a Muslim who is 54 years old and who lived in peace and so on, and I remind you that the Joint Defence and Security Committee still has not completed its work on the issue of attacks on the American Embassy and issues that have not yet been closed. BiH is certainly one of the countries that follows the watchful eye when it comes to all these events and it is not funny at all, we should really all imagine ourselves, especially those who are the bearers of these initiatives. I've been asking a little bit about what kind of person this is, and I resent Mr. Jagodić for not doing it. So Tariq Mahmood Ahmed Al-Sawah-Sawah was born in Alexandria on 2.11.1957 as a citizen of Egypt. The Commission for the Review of Decisions on the Naturalisation of Foreign Citizens has taken away his citizenship from BiH during the audit, so he is no longer a BiH citizen. He was admitted to citizenship in 1995 as a member of the BiH Army and the El-Mujahid squad and was taken from him because of established... behaviour and irregularities, as I said earlier. According to the information I received, this person used two identities in BiH. One is like a citizen of Egypt, the other is a citizen of Kuwait. According to those checks, this person never lived in the area of Zenica at the registered address: Church number 21. It was probably a fictitious address application to get that old ID card back then. This face has never taken out CIPS's I.D. So BiH security agencies filed criminal charges against him. What I failed to find out 101, and now I will raise that question, whether this person is accused, or suspected by BiH security agencies as a threat to the country's security. So that person should be helped by Mr. Jagodić's initiative. I hope Mr. Jagodić has taken it lightly and I think it would be good, Mr. Jagodić, if you would withdraw this initiative and never do anything like that again.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9697	Thank you. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić, is that correct, replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9698	That's right, replica. ... I must honestly say that I haven't thought of replicating, but on a text like this, or Mrs. Majkić's words, I certainly always have my own opinion, regardless of what I'm not going to do this way, as it stands out, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9699	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9700	Well, you've been asking questions, I haven't absolutely asked questions, I am, what you've all got, but I have dared to ask a question as an ordinary man and normally as a responsible MP. I want to find out why someone can be in jail for 10 years without anyone calling him: sir, you're under arrest, you're being harassed, but no one's asking you to argue to tell you, and it's going to take forever. We are witnessing that in BiH, Mrs. Majkić, many people are being processed and, in the end, all this is being delayed, but I don't know, I don't want anyone to experience it. And that is why I want this House to be manifested and give some kind of opinion, and let the public look at it. But what you're saying is that, I don't know, such a gentleman, I really don't have a man about it, and I don't have a special interest in him coming or staying, but really as a man I want whoever in some way lives in the country, harassed, persecuted, we know what Gvantanamo is, I wouldn't wish it to anyone. Who knows who's possible and from us next, I don't know what's going to happen, if that's the case, I wouldn't want to. I really believe that every citizen of ours, every citizen of ours, has the right to...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9701	Wait a minute, please. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9702	I don't know. He's the father of two Bosnian Herzegova children. I don't know, that's what you're saying. However, I really want... 102
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9703	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9704	Look, this may even be an opportunity to say that Mrs. Majkić, so you could have joined up a moment ago when I was talking about a court ruling in which a certain police station commander should return to his post by court ruling. There's no court ruling here, and that's how you advocate it. There we have a court ruling where he should return, you didn't say the words. I'd ask you to take care of these things, too. You are famous for these topics, and I would like this to be my last topic, but as a man, I think it's not fair that someone lies, no matter who it is, whether it was a citizen of this country, that country, could be a Rus, could be a Nijemac, an Englez, a Grk, I don't know who, but I certainly want no one, no matter where on earth the planet is, to be harassed. It's mine, and this Parliament and colleagues and colleagues, I ask them to conclude as they see it. I'm not going to insist on some special conclusions, but as an MP, I wanted to set up an initiative and get an appropriate answer, like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9705	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Bursać. I just hope you don't want to form a committee to go there.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9706	No, not at all. Here, I'll ask myself one question and you just think about it. Did Mr. Mahmood Ahmed El-Sawah-Sawah get cut down by Egypt and Kuwait because he lies there and because he is their citizen before BiH, and here we have heard that he is a citizen of those states? I wonder if these countries have been cut down for someone with a history like this and who has a history like this, let's say, a record? And we need to take care of him here now. I think it's groundless.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9707	From what I understand, you asked yourself, didn't you? But you will be answered by a esteemed colleague, Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9708	First, I am thrilled and encouraged by the beginnings of my colleague Saša, because I see which topics interest him and he asked himself a question. If he was in my hallway, I'd tell him everything about this man. So he was expelled from those countries, and not from those, he was a citizen of a country, but he had five more countries. And, when everyone sent him away, he came here. But anyone here could have gotten citizenship, so he got citizenship. In order for this case to be solved as soon as possible, I propose myself to a delegation to go to Guantanamo to free him. Since I have good connections with the Amerikanac, 103 I'm serious about this, so we can cut this procedure short. Hello, as my neighbor would say, this is neither persuasive nor rude, hello people, here in Central Prison a million problems have our prisoners, ours, whom I know his grandmother and his mother. Nobody knows this guy. He doesn't know his grandmother or his mother. He ran away. Gentlemen, here comes an ambulance every hour for these people outside. We've got a lot of problems, like Gvantanamo. Now I'm going to write Obama to let this go and cause new conflicts, and they're looking forward to some Srbin writing that we're being bombed again, aren't they? Well, come on, guys, let's get serious. What kind of letters I get and what initiatives I'd like to make, I think that you, as my friends, would approve of you to kick me out as soon as I show up, not when I'm alive, but when you see me. Cut the crap on these initiatives. I respect my colleague Jagodić, but if he is the main problem of BiH, and yours personally, let's really engage to help this man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9709	Dear colleague Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9710	I'm joining my colleague, Majkić, that this situation needs to be serious. I think we have one problem, and we also live in one country, and this is a well-intentioned suggestion to Mr. Jagodić. So if he has contact with this man and his family, I think the address to solve these problems is the Ombudsman of BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9711	A man asks himself and you see what he does. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić, replica. Here you go. Ziad, replica, if you've heard from me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9712	Yes, it is. I really must say that I didn't expect such a... confusion about this initiative, but if it's really so for a certain group of MPs, I honestly, well-meaningly, I'm going to pull that initiative back and calm down, to move on, if that's really such a problem. No problem, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9713	Okay. Dear colleagues, if the initiative is withdrawn, what do we do now? You'll discuss it further, won't you, even though it's withdrawn?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9714	I will, I will.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9715	Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović. Since this is the agenda point, here you go. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9716	To explain things a little bit.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9717	We voted on the agenda and this point is on the agenda. Is there a debate on that agenda point? Yes, it is. I don't want to talk about the content of the initiative. We can joke here, we can laugh, it's good we might have some reason to laugh at the end of a day like this, but I want to draw attention to something that's very serious. Some lawyer, a military attorney for the Pentagon, sent a letter to the MPs, once, two, five, no matter what, to the MPs of the state parliament. I wonder if possibly some lawyer from the Pentagon has the need to send a letter, I suppose we could get it through the American embassy. If a letter signed by a lawyer, a military lawyer from the Pentagon, is here in this state parliament, then I wonder about the work of this institution, regardless of the content, I don't refer at all to the content, because I refer to the cause of the initiative, and it's a letter from some lawyer from the Pentagon who sent something to a State MP. You see, maybe it wouldn't be bad if we stopped over this and eventually established some rules. There should be a service here that, among other things, should also distribute or not distribute such spectral shipments. 'Cause I'm sorry, I find her suspicious. If he's from the Pentagon, I expect some state MP to be delivered in a different way than the post office. Or, how can we fall for everyone's presentation here without talking about the content of the representation of the problem that it represents in its letter? In that sense, I beg you, I don't really know if it's really for the College to think about some way to settle some relationships, whether it's for the services here to send us letters of such a kind, on behalf of MPs, this is a state parliament, and to save a little of ourselves and the dignity of this institution. I'm asking you in that sense to think, independently, I've just used this as a cause. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9718	Chairman of the House, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9719	Already on several occasions, distinguished counterpart Hadžiahmetović makes remarks to the College, to say, with incoherent comments, but this is one of the worst comments I could hear. So the website of Parliament in which every MP has its own website and is available to anyone who clickes on one can come to a website, and we get all possible e-mails that we can also distribute, which we will accept, which we will not accept. You ask the College to make enough for every MP and allow who can, who can't access it. Well, that's the worst I could hear, a remark about working on a college here. That you have the right to at least once the remarks this College is making, but to give me the mandate to respect your distribution in a way: you can read this, you can't read this, so I really don't know what I need to do anymore. So e-mail came in and got some MPs this, some MPs. The man e-mailed the website to Parliament, said I'd send these, I won't send them, and now what can the College do? What else can the 105 college do? Does the College need to create a service that will even open letters to check if the annex is in those letters? Should the College create an information service that will edit Parliament in a way that these texts can, these can't text? I'm sorry I'm saying this, because I'm really hit in a way that needs to be done and I don't need to respect the College to work here. You're wrong here. I have no right to filter anyone's mail. The man chose by e-mail the pages of those MPs he wanted to send mail to. And here's the correction, one of the Serbian MPs, not from the RS, but Mr. Saša Magazinović got that mail, among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9720	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Drago Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9721	Here, every time at least a little opportunity arises for the distinguished colleague Jovičić to travel out of this country, activity is interrupted on this and this brutally, by withdrawing the initiative. If the initiative hadn't been withdrawn, he'd have had a chance to realize that departure. And I answered exactly what Mr. Živković said. So this man, this lawyer, he's doing his job. He's not at all controversial to me. He defends people, he has the right to defend them around the world, and he's looking for help around the world, from whom he can have the right to communicate with all people, it's probably we're not advocating that people, I don't know, or I don't know, any activity involved in all democratic countries have the right to defend themselves. So they have the right to an attorney. But here is a skillfully bypassed fact, here when seeking help from this man, is there also a need for help from this organization that he belongs to? So does that include helping Al-Kaid-Qaeda too because people are in trouble obviously there. And how... we came into a situation that in the state parliament one big political party spends an hour on the story of whether we should help the activities of one of the biggest terrorist organizations in the world. So there's the problem. No one can forbid us from our initiatives and the rest, and neither do I, nor who can search letters and letters to the messengers. But I think this is the only parliament in Europe that has spent almost half an hour or more and is thinking about whether or not this organization could be helped and how. Should we use our closest unit there that's near Gvantanam, who's down there now, from Avganistan, or that what Mr. Jovičić is, to make us some kind of own, that's what this is about. And it was a colleague of Hadžiahmetović who went around and went on a very side-by-side thing that Mr. Živković chatted on my letters. That's what he can't touch on my letters. And Mr. Sredoje Nović, he's not here, he said one very clever thought, when they asked him why he didn't hire advisors. And you could read it in the media, he says a smart man doesn't need a counselor, and a fool is free to advise. So, we all decide on our actions and we are all responsible for our actions and Mr Živković and all the people of the College cannot prevent any MP in their legal and legitimate initiatives, and each brother should be responsible for the consequences of his initiative. For what we've spent where we think about helping Al-Qaeda 106 or not helping, I think we're the only parliament, so I don't know if there's any other person who dares to put this on and discuss this for an hour. It's for another story now.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9722	Replica, a respected colleague of Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9723	I must say I'm very surprised, Mr. Živković, to your discussion. I paid no respects to the College, nothing. But I took advantage of this initiative just to draw attention to one potential problem from now on. I didn't expect the College or any of the members of the College to read my e-mails, etc. I get e-mails on a few of my e-mail addresses from all over the world and all kinds of stuff, etc. These are official envelopes that were delivered through mail through a parliamentary porter... through a book etc. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that everyone here can send a letter of this kind to a Member of State and that it ends in this way, with this story and this kind of discussion, and that each of us here is the least likely to be present in this room. I, of course, have no intention of even apologizing to you, because I didn't honor the College. If the College, or Mr. Živković still thinks that I did something to him personally or to the College, I ask you to read a stenogram with my discussion. If you don't think, colleagues and colleagues and members of the College, that we should be protected individually and as an institution against attacks of various kinds, for which something like this can only be a rehearsal, then forget about my discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9724	Thank you. So the College has no intention of either reading e-mails or sorting out mail received by each individual MP. It is up to every MP to open his mail in the way he thinks he's fit. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9725	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I didn't discuss Mrs. Hadžiahmetović or realize in that sense that the Kolegijum should read someone's mail. On the contrary, we all get a lot of mail and we don't know who really stands, whether he who wrote it really is that person. Who's, what's, what's he like? And in that sense, I think we all need to show, the Kolegijum of course had to do, when the initiative was launched to put that initiative on the agenda, and it's not controversial. But I think that all of us here need to separate from all those letters that we get what is the place here in this House and what is not the place in this House. The fact that this parliament interferes with the American legal system makes it absolutely unacceptable. And I think what Mr. Kalabić is saying is that we need something to decide whether or not we support Al-Kaida-Qaeda, Mr. Kalabić, please don't be here about Al-Kaida-Qaeda. Here I am going to tell you that I received a letter linking you to Al-Qaeda. Indeed, I received as the chairman of the Human Rights Commission from Ms. Milosava Jakovljević, who was an MP for the Party for BiH in the previous National Assembly meeting, in which she asked me to protect her human rights 107 from Mr. Kalabić, and I remembered it well, I showed it to you, and there the woman wrote: drago Kalabić is my white Al-Kaida-Qaeda, my mujahidin, my terrorist. I'm not an MP because Drago Kalabić said the SDS bought me two bicycle tires to support the Vlada of Pere... I mean, was I supposed to put that letter here? And commit... so much. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9726	Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9727	Of course, a fresh letter in this parliament, a new one, Mrs Pandurević in her expansion read all of it, intended to expose it all, so when she took a little step back, she saw that all this nonsense should not be brought to this parliament and that we should read it there a little bit and see about it all, although here she took the opportunity to express it in a certain way, although in her discussion she mentioned that we were all getting various letters, and we were fighting for this to be MPs and the price of it was that people were talking in various ways, as I did not mention today that the SDS initiative, came to us to visit these prisons, Mrs Pandurević asked us from SNSD to allow that visit in Foca. And we'll make it possible, but we're asking that you, too, allow those who have more on the other hand to talk to us, because they're closer to you in that story. And I didn't ask for it today, and distinguished colleague Jakovljević Milosava was my honourable MP, a colleague I respect, I respect, she was an MP for the BiH Party and she always said that she loved the red star most in the world and Haris Silajdžić. And we spent the whole term explaining those two, how she came to put it together. Of course, after she failed in that mandate and all of us who were, she felt that we had not given her that mandate and she felt this new power in Parliament and colleague Pandurević turned to protect and promote it eventually.. because the woman wanted to be an MP and felt she was prevented from doing so and was looking for a way about it. But with one, I agree, we have a responsibility here and for the word, and for the initiative, and for anything we do. And let each of us think, which says, three times before he cuts off, and no college and no other bans can help, or need at all.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9728	I'm closing the debate. No more reports. Moving to point 22, Ad. 22. Information on public competition to elect and appoint two members of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Central Election Commission That's the new agenda point. We included her on the proposal of MP Beriz Belkić. I hope you've got the material our election commission got. 108 I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9730	Here's a very short one. I would like to thank the President of the Commission, who has, however, provided the Information in a short time. However, looking at the information and documentation that I have, I remain on the claim that this process, which has been initiated and if it continues in this way, will lead us to a situation where we are violating the Central Election Commission Act, namely provisions that speak of how members of the Central Election Commission are elected. That's why I'm suggesting the conclusions you've got. I think you've already got them and there's no need for me to read them. The point is that we are extending until the end of the election process concerning the elections, so that the existing members, whose term of office expires on July 1st, extends until the end of the election period, this is November, I think, at the end of October, and that the deadlines are then agreed three months before the end of the term of office, 30 days before the end of the term of office, elections, etc. Then it can be synchronised and it can be okay. The delay is three months, maybe four, those who intend to compete can do it in two or three months. There, that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9731	Dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9732	Thank you. I have an obligation, given that Mr. Jurišić had to leave the session as chairman, so he asked and I felt it was necessary to say a few sentences, although I have nothing new from what I said this morning. This item of the agenda just now, this unfortunate lawyer found it appropriate to write letters, and these are more skilled than they are about the Electoral Commission, so they verbally demand that someone raise these various questions. Of course the choice is interesting and that people try these activities in various ways. We talked at the Commission's session at the time – I think there are those here too – we have heard the legal arguments where here you have and this material that has been delivered today, which calls for the procedure to be implemented, that the mandate cannot be longer than seven years and not disputed, I am now speaking to Parliament from the Commission's point of view that at the moment that this procedure is concluded, it will decide when the appointment will be. And that's what I suggested this morning that simply the moment when the Commission, which must, you see from these documents, is simply clearly written that it has to call and when it has to call the competition, and end the procedure regarding the Commission, and the moment it comes here to Parliament that finally decides, then it can possibly be discussed some other things. I think to stop the Commission from just leading us in some other direction. I know that, here you have these mandates for two years, so people don't deal with it, now we've come into a situation that even when we're seven, they don't deal with it, and there's probably no end to our wishes here, and we're using various methods to try to do it in some way in practice. I think that the Commission should complete its work in accordance with the procedure, deliver all the necessary proposals to this Parliament, and it is up to Parliament to decide whether it will do so in August, whether it will do so in November and beyond, when that point comes to the agenda. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9733	Replica, dear colleague Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9734	Here, I am, Drago, one of those methods that people use. So, I'm very happy to put myself in the position of protecting the law. So what Mr. Kalabić suggests looks like this. So, the contest has been called, the law has been prescribed three months before the end of the term of office for those who are elected, but it is also prescribed that the election must be made 30 days before the end of the term of office. So you can't avoid the appointment when the competition starts. It must be completed within 30 days of the end of the term of office, so in early June, this process must be completed and people appointed. And it will happen at the moment of the election process and nothing else. If you're in the mood to do it, no problem, we'll vote on what comes out.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9735	Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9736	I'm sorry, I don't want to replicate anything special, but when this topic is, I've been thinking about when to get involved, but here's the only thing that seems to be smart and meaningful right now. There are a bunch of conclusions here from our colleagues and colleagues. Please nicely, I read extremely well – I read a lot and my eyes are often red looking at various texts, but this – I also know Latin, I know Cyrillic, I know both German and English about beautiful – but this is me, believe me, I can't read it. And I'd like to ask everyone in the future: give us what you're delivering, if you want to get... I have to read for half an hour to connect what anyone wanted to say. And secondly, I must commend this regardless of what I didn't count on right now: colleague Majkić very nicely, here's printed,... thank you very much, I can read it, but these others that are written, please, there's so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9737	Mr. Beriz Belkić suggests two conclusions: 1. The mandate of members of the Central Election Commission Hadžović Vedran and Vuičić Tihomir is extended until the end of the election process in 2012 and in accordance with the Law, with members of the 26th century (2) and (2.15) stand (4) of the BiH Election Law. 2. The CEC's election and appointment commission will adapt the call for a public competition, conduct the election procedure, submit the list of candidates to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Here's the conclusion. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9738	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to answer the question that has been asked today. At this point, I don't prefer any possible answer, but the answer has to be given. Because the fact is that the term of office expires in the election period, the fact is that if it were, it would be in an election period and the fact is that there is a legal provision that says that if the term of office expires in the electoral period then it would be extended by the end of the election period. This question is not a very harmless question, and if we make a mistake, we can question integrity, the overall integrity of local elections, because then, in both variants, people would participate, members of the Election Commission are people who have a serious responsibility, who could not practically participate if we make a mistake. And that's why this question is important to me. That is why I think that, if you don't mind, my colleague Belkić should reshape these conclusions and ask this commission to do this job to notify us officially of its position that we know as Parliament and that we, as Parliament, discuss it here. This is still not an official position, the Commission has many more members, the Commission has three members from the House of Representatives, has a member from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, has members from the Election Commission, so this should be put on the agenda and let us know about its position, and after that we would take a position. So with these people either being extended or not extended, we can't extend it, which is why I can't support this first conclusion. So the mandate is either extended or not extended, depending on the interpretation, so he's already where he is. Today we heard the president of this commission saying this only applies to local electoral commissions. I doubt this applies only to local election committees. I tried these materials that I got from them to make a conclusion. I think this applies to all commissions, including the CEC and local electoral commissions, because the term Election Commission is being used somewhere by the local electoral commission, somewhere using the CEC, but you would have to look at the full law to interpret this. Therefore, I suggest that if you can accept this, of course: you rephrase your conclusions and ask this committee to sit down and make an official statement before continuing the procedure and inform the House, and then we will see what we will do next. And just one more thing, so I said,...so we should check that these people should continue to work as members of the Election Commission until the election process is over, that's what I think. But it's not enough and it needs to be checked anyway. I think if that's so, then the law itself, so ex-lege is extended mandate. There is no Parliament to extend now, on which to extend. I mean, I say this completely open, completely honest, and I say what I think and what can be the problem. And this is my suggestion. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9739	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go. 111
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9740	Two things I think it was made clear this morning and the point on that committee was that this set of members of 2.14 refer further to the municipal electoral commission. All and one view that speaks of the CEC clearly says the CEC, talks about its work, about its election, about its obligations, and here in 2.14., 2.15. explicitly talks about members of municipal election committees. And we thought of the recommendation of respected experts that it was because we listened to them and heard that thing. And I remind you further: how is it possible for a CEC member to decide in the eighth year on election results? Is that an explicit violation of the law? People are being given a mandate, so it doesn't give a much bigger cause to tell someone that in the eighth, ninth and eleventh years they can't participate in the election process, but within seven years. So you have a very clear fact that we've faced besides these, let's say, here are the vague others, this one is quite clear: the mandate stands out. The obligation of this commission is to implement the procedure, we don't appoint, we don't choose, we will elect this parliament, we have to implement the procedure because it sets out the mandate for people not to have the opposite, so we won't be charged with not following the deadlines and we haven't done it. I say again, we cannot avoid this procedure, we think that interpretation is like this: it does not reflect the state of the law and there is no need to prevent after seven years of choice in accordance with the law and in accordance with the deadlines and thus enables the legitimacy of the choice to execute the selection of these members of the Election Commission in accordance with procedures that are clearly and precisely prescribed, as anywhere else.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9741	Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9742	It's not yesterday's, the people who were interested in this were very good at studying this, and we all know what this is all about. I am once again trying, Mr. Kalabić, to convince you that the intention is absolutely not to detain someone for 10, 15, 8, 7 years, is simply an intention to avoid the situation so that this parliament does not come into a position to appoint. I'll take your word for it when it comes, because I see you'll vote for it, etc. Thank you to Mr. Džaferović, he doesn't need any correction, this is clear and you yourself said in the discussion that you agree with this mainly, at least your personal opinion. So we'll see what happens because you won't stop the competition, obviously it's time to put some new people in, the political deal is probably. So we will see how Parliament will behave when it is brought into the final act.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9743	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9744	Look, Mr. Kalabić, I'm not saying you're right or you're wrong, I'm not saying I'm right or I'm wrong, I'm just asking this thing to be investigated and to be answered on time. Because it's about the legitimacy of the electoral process, its integrity. These people are sitting in the Electoral Commission and, if there is therefore a change in the opposite of the law or there is no replacement against 112 laws, we can have a problem with the electoral process. So this is an important question to me, this is not a personal question to me at all, and it's not my seventh or eighth year at all, and for me, this is a real question of the integrity of the electoral process. That's why I think we have to show ourselves as Home, so on this issue. It will result, therefore, in the light of whether the mandate is extended or not, but we must be clear about this. I, at this point after today's presentation of the president and on the basis of what I've seen here, and I said why, mentioning the CEC, the local electoral commission, the Electoral Commission, I think the matter should be fully investigated and this should be put on this committee and properly investigated. Because no one here has a problem with someone being two or three months shorter or longer in office. And that's why, at all, this isn't worth it to me to get up three times today to talk about this subject, but it's worth the integrity of the election process, which is why I think it. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9745	Second replica, Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9746	Here, maybe if we help or get even more help, I agree that the debate that was on the Commission should, for the sake of us, come to Parliament in some way. We really did spend it extensively, we listened, but here we did not consider it necessary, nor did any of us ask to meet Parliament about it. Here it is, I think it is no problem, because we have the same argument we have heard which should be forwarded to Parliament as well. But there is one interesting question: does the legitimacy of these elections bring these two members of the Electoral Commission? Why are we questioning it, we have the right of course, why are those who are here directly affected in some way why they do not bring it or will apply for a contest? The moment they apply to the competition, we can't be their lawyers that we think those people are, I don't know, if they think the process is legitimate and they file, and I mean, I think even some have filed applications. He can't take the goat and the money. So if they participate in this process they don't bring him in, the names are two people, they have the right to question this process if they think they're damaged. To initiate certain proceedings before the courts, to challenge the contest, but if they decided to participate in this process why we question why we became their lawyers. I think that should wait, the answer to that question, we have plenty of time, and I think it's just going to happen so that these people, because they're experts in their work, that they're going to participate in this process and I don't see anything controversial if it's about quality people to extend their mandate. Nothing controversial and that we will have the same composition of the Election Commission as he is now, we are talking about a hypothetical possibility.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9747	Thank you. My koleginica and fellow MPs, we here have practically only two conclusions that we have received from Mr. Beriz and we no longer have the conclusions, no one has suggested that the Election Commission is suggested to seek authentic interpretation. Apparently, they don't need authentic interpretation. No Niko has made any other conclusions; when we vote, we only have to vote on the conclusions Mr. Beriz Belkić has made and nothing more. I'm closing the debate. 113 We move to the 23rd point of the agenda. I propose, although I have a suggestion of certain MPs to separate discussions about these points of the agenda, I suggest that we put together a debate between the 23rd and 38rd agendas, and that anyone who has a need to discuss appoints laws he thinks we should not discuss now or that these ratifications should be postponed and I suggest that we make a statement. It means that the debate on points 23 to 38 is united. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 31, no "against" or "abstained." I find that we have decided to bring together the debate on points 23 to 38. Ad. 23. - 38. Granting consent The opinion of the committee responsible for external affairs on approval for ratification has been given to you. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9749	Dear Chairman, I have one proposal, given that we are from the agenda today in an unknown way, I have not heard what is stated as a reason, downloaded a point called: Information on the establishment of functions and structure of the decentralised system of governance (DIS) to the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA), this was proposed by the Council of Ministers. And that's the information that came at the request of both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly where we were supposed to meet what was going on on that plan. For some reason it was downloaded, whether it was at the request of the Council of Ministers or not, but precisely this material relates from 14 agreements to 8. I would pray that you wouldn't trouble all the agreements to let these agreements be voted on at the next session, so... there are some misunderstandings. Probably for that reason, the Council of Ministers also asked for it to be withdrawn. If there is no particular problem, and since it is IPA 2006, 2007, 2008, in 2009, I think we should seriously consider it, and why the Council of Ministers did it and, indeed, I don't think it's a problem to plead at the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9750	From what I understand, you're proposing for all ratifications, all ratifications are proposed to be considered at the next session. Please give that conclusion in writing. As for the removal of the agenda, we have been informed that the Commission for European Integration, the Joint Commission, did not have a session and did not submit a report. So the point couldn't be the agenda point, because it wasn't the meeting, it wasn't the report and it couldn't be put on the agenda. 114 No more proposals for discussion. I'm closing the debate. Here, the College decided that at 6:30, we'd vote on the dots. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats. I think we can say from place to place about those points that you're interested in, about which we're going to vote and move on to the vote. The adoption of the minutes from the 25th session of the House of Representatives. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! There was no "for" 37, "against" and "abstained." I understand we've adopted the record. Point: 3. Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act (first reading) We vote on the Proposal for a Law in the first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! For 35, there were no abstentions. I find that we passed the bill in the first reading. We are voting on the proposal to conclude Parliament, Dušanka Majkić. Is there any need for me to read the conclusion? You know. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 20, 'against' 13,'restricted four,' insufficient entity majority. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9753	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9754	Here you go, business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9755	I propose, on behalf of the SDP Club, that as a previous question, we vote whether we are in favour of accepting the Report or receiving the Report, and that we be heard about it. So either we accept the report or we take it to the knowledge. 118
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9756	I have not seen your proposal such a conclusion, and in continuity in this House we have adopted reports.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9757	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9758	But I don't see it in writing and I don't have any of it in my memory, and in continuity we talked about adopting the report. And we've adopted the last report here. So we're voting for adoption. Here in the reminder, I'm not even saying what I was going to do, so the proposal for the conclusion of MP Beriz Belkić. Is there a need to read four conclusions? There's no need. We vote on those conclusions first. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You want us to do it again? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9761	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9762	Are you sure you remember?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9763	Come on, you read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9764	"It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to make a register of the current and future beneficiaries of the BiH Return Fund in co-operation with the BiH Commission for Refugees and Displaced Persons, which will record all the beneficiaries of the BiH Return Fund and the rankings according to the priorities of all future beneficiaries of the BiH Return Fund." Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 22, 'against' 12,'restricted' one. 121 I find this conclusion has not passed. Moving to point 16. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on MP Mirsad Đugum glasati's initiative in the second round on the initiative. Is there any need for me to read that initiative? _________(?) There's no need, we know. Are you sure you know? Okay. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 23, "against" 14, "abstained" wasn't. I find that this initiative has not received the necessary majority. Moving to point 17. The Kolegijum's report on efforts to reach agreement on Parliament's initiative by Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic in the second round on the initiative. Is there any need to read that initiative? _________(?) There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9767	I am withdrawing the initiative so as not to interpret it as a question of established foreign policy orientation.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9768	Thank you. Moving to the point: 20. A statement on the initiative of MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović Glasmo on the adoption of the initiative, that is the agriculture session. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "In" 20, "against" 13, "restricted" two. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare to vote, we vote in the second round. You can vote now! "For" 21, "against" 14, "restricted" three. I find that this initiative has not been supported. [[Common discussion]] Please hold for a moment, we are voting on the initiative of distinguished counterpart Zijad Jagodić, unless he withdraws the initiative. Right?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9770	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9771	Pulled, okay. 123 Point: 22. Information on the opening of the Public Competition for the election and appointment of two members of the Central Election Commission of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Glasmo, on the proposal for the conclusions of MP Beriz Belkić. You don't need to read them. Right? Okay. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" seven, "against" 22, "abstained" seven. I find these conclusions not accepted. Now we're voting on agreements. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need to vote. So, we have two proposals, one proposal is to postpone all the agreements for a plea until the next session and put the proposal to a vote first, given that it is a broader proposal. If he does not receive support, we have another proposal in which only part of the agreement is postponed to vote for the next session. But first, I'm going to put the motion to the vote, which postpones the statement on points 23 to 38 to the next session. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 15, "against" 21, "restricted" one. I find that the proposal has not been supported. We have another proposal that concerns, please be careful, point 23, 25, 26, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32 and 33 to postpone the plea until the next session. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9774	I'm sorry, I think the confusion is about the insertion of this 22nd point, because you've moved a little bit and I'm asking my colleague, Majkić, with you to sort out in a minute, please. To compare these points differently if it's not...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9775	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9776	I think I read it right, just a little bit, I think I read it right, because it's in the new agenda that I've already included point 22 and it starts at point 23 of the IPA fund.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9777	Did I understand that you were asking 33 to postpone the plea?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9778	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9779	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9780	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9781	It is 33rd, since it is pre-accession aid instruments, and that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9782	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9783	I've read it, but you have to be careful. I'll read it to you one more time. So the proposal is to leave out the points and leave out for the next session of item 23, according to the new amended agenda 25, 26, 27, 29, 30, 31, 32 and 33. Is everything okay now? Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 15, "against" 20, "restricted" three. I'm guessing this proposal didn't get most of it either. We move to a statement on the following items of the agenda. Since, as far as you've seen, there's no agreement to discuss this in the package and let's go dot by point. The first point is point 23. 125
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9784	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-04-19-1.u9785	So, here is a proposal from counterpart Džaferović that we vote on all the points of the agenda that concern from 23rd to 38th, and as far as giving consent, we vote in the package. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 29, "against" nine, "abstained" wasn't enough, entity majority. I realize this parliament has decided to vote in the package on all points, from 23rd to 38rd. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 28, 'against' wasn't,'restricted' seven, there wasn't enough entity majority from the RS. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) Repeat the vote.
