ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12813	Please colleagues and colleagues who have sat in their seats to place these cards as scheduled that we may have official presence records. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, honored guests, I am opening the 39th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of NGOs, representatives of the media. The session called on the General Audit Office of BiH, representatives of nine institutions which were the subject of a detailed analysis of the Finance and Budget Committee during the review of the audit reports, the president of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH, the director of the Directorate for European Integration of BiH and the chairman of the BiH Appeal Office, to discuss the material in their jurisdiction. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The absence was justified by representatives and MPs – Ismeta Dervoz, Mladen Bosić, Borislav Bojić, Aleksandra Pandurević and Mirza Kušljugić. According to the information service, there are 32 MPs and representatives present, which means we have a quorum and we can discuss and decide. As for the change and addition of the session agenda, I would like to note that we added to the agenda: Point 77. Request by representatives Dušanka Majkić, Beriz Belkić and Niko Lozančić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption under the shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, issue: 01,02-02-1-52/12 of 10.12.2012. The agenda has been downloaded: point 81. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Postages of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MPs Mladen Bosić, Aleksandra Pandurević, Darko Babalj, Borislav Bojić and Vesna Krstović-Spremo, Law No: 01-02-1-46/12 of 22.11.2012. (first reading), at the request of the Transport and Connection Committee, because the session was not maintained by the lack of quorum. 2 I point 91. Granting consent for ratification of Amendment No. 1. to the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, concluded on 07 August 2006 in Sarajevo and 05 September 2006 in Luxembourg – Road Rehabilitation Project in Republika Srpska (FI 23.599), BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-1351/12 of 05.12.2012, as the BiH Presidency subsequently found that this amendment had already been agreed with ratification. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12814	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I think that I should make an observation about the proposed agenda for the simple reason that so far, in countless cases, we have discussed the subject of never putting all the audit reports, 70 audit reports, into one session again. So, we're doing this, and here's the thing that started this session again and again, and it continues, but we haven't listened to what the Finance and Budget Commission has given a very reasoned argument in its argument set out in Chapter IV, point 4 of the conclusion is that it is asked the House of Representatives to hold a thematic session which will discuss audit reports on the financial operations of the BiH institutions with the mandatory presence of all members of the Council of Ministers, the Office for Audit, and the 9 institutions that have been the subject of a detailed commission analysis. That's the conclusion to which there's nothing to add. We see that on this left hand side, as usual, especially when considering audit reports, we have virtually no one, except for the honorary exceptions of the deputy minister. So here's what we're looking at, and the audit office is only represented in one deputy. So this isn't, we don't have that, that kind of quorum that we need to discuss the audit reports, we have formally, we don't have the essentials. I propose that the first conclusion of the Finance and Budget Commission be respected. If you can't do that then I suggest you form three dots, four. One, the third point to be the Office's report on the review of BiH institutions that received a positive opinion, followed by 30 institutions. After that comes the Office's report on the review of BiH institutions that received an opinion with the emphasis on the case. The next is the report by the BiH Institutions Audit Office, which received an opinion with the reserve. And at the end of the assignment of institutions that got a negative opinion. So then MPs could come forward, within each group they could pick up once. This is how I know what it's gonna look like. ... 70 points will unite the discussion and each will have the right to comment on 70 audit reports only once. I don't think that's right, and I'm asking the chairman to take a short break and change that agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12815	I thank the honourable representative. Of course, the club to which the representative belongs has the right to request a break. If you think that's the right thing to do, I will, of course... follow the club's request. As far as I'm concerned, if you'll let me answer. In fact, all of this agenda, his, and the points suggest that this is basically a thematic session because it's mostly about the audit reports. On the other hand, 9 institutions identified by the Commission as those of 3 to be discussed in particular have been invited here. But anyway, if you think you need a break, I'll give it to you, but let it be requested on behalf of the club. And as far as this agenda is concerned, this agenda was first established at the college, and then at the extended college where the representatives of all clubs were present. So I don't see why we shouldn't continue to discuss this agenda today. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12816	The Honorable Chairman. This left side is empty. Who exactly are we giving a message to? The audit sends reports to Parliament which is its first partner. Who are we texting? So whoever we're supposed to send a message to, he's not here today. What's the point of arguing if there's no one to take that message? So I ask you to be responsible for what is expected of us. The state of the country will be as we insist on it. So, please, at least what you can do is put my proposal to a vote to group at least, and we'll talk to ourselves again because we didn't accept that through the thematic conference. So, to give a break to define this new agenda and then to continue the debate afterwards, to have at least the opportunity to talk about two groups of reports each MP.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12817	Thank you. So, all of these on the left, where you rightly indicated that it was half empty, but they were invited. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12818	Here, I picked up the line to try to get everyone we applied for first, so let's see how we all feel about it. As far as the presence is concerned, I agree with you, but that is the problem of the ruling six parliamentary majority. You can come out now and call your colleagues for a moment. But here, I answered more when it came to the agenda. I agree on your presence. I couldn't agree more. However, when it comes to putting all these points on the agenda, I disagree with several requests. First, we got the materials in July of the month, and the first and second part of the report and so on, so in July of the month. In addition, the Commission also sought to add additional materials to the Audit Office. We have recapitulations, we have reports that summed up, wonderfully in my opinion summed up, and by groups classified and so on. So, we, in my opinion, at least I think, can discuss today safely, of course, if there is no ambition to discuss each individual review report of each institution. So, I'm really paying my respects to the material and the Audit Office and our committee who did it well and put a lot of effort into this, and I think we can discuss it in a metric way today. And I agree with the chairman that this is a kind of thematic conference. And you can take a break so that people, call this power to come. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12819	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12820	Thank you. I'd like to replicate my colleague Dušanka before all the good... story begins. First of all, when I got these three lists, 94 agenda points, or 92 in correction, I think it's really unserious. And right now, I'm even more confused when I see that if we MPs in our clubs don't understand each other, then I'm certainly interested in fellow Majkić that you don't understand yourself in SNSD. But I can see they're silent in the SDP, too. Looks like everyone agrees. I mean, that's sad and funny. If you want to give us, how, but this reminds me of a year ago, a year and a half, when we also had 70, 80 points of the agenda, it's really extremely irresponsible of you as if, if you want to discuss, if you think that in any way any comment is enough on one of these points. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12821	Thank you. Dear representative Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12822	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues. My replica refers to your presentation, Mr. Chairman, because you said just now, in response to colleague Majkić, that this is a thematic session, which is not because we have from the 73rd to 93rd agendas that some of the previous sessions, some are added today. So, I absolutely support my colleague Majkić's proposal and I find it inappropriate that we today have 72 audit reports stuck in one agenda. In doing so, we have a number of audit reports that have a negative opinion and that have something to say about. And I don't know how you think to do it. One MP has 10 minutes to discuss it. What if I now want to mention 10 audit reports that have a negative opinion this discussion can't stop in 10 minutes. So that's also for practical reasons inconclusive. And don't laugh, this isn't funny, this is a very serious thing. If you want a quality debate to be conducted then you must allow services both formal and essential to happen. If you want to give me this now of 1. Up to 73. Points we just say, have you read – we are, let's move on, goodbye and that's it, I mean then I don't know what to do with this. Or if, perhaps, someone consciously wants to allow these negative reports to go through like this, not to say anything, that we have a responsibility... because we have this on the agenda. Today we have the right to talk about it, to draw certain conclusions and make suggestions in this regard. And that's why I'm reporting, and I'm saying that it's perfectly in place for my colleague Dušanka's proposal, and I don't see why you're trying, I know that you have to defend this agenda because you've been taking part in its adoption, but it doesn't mean that we can't agree today and make a situation where a quality debate can be conducted and that this isn't just a reform, because we've had in the previous five sessions the situation that we've talked about the audit reports and it's really just been a reform, let's move on. This Parliament has some responsibility in this because today, on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12823	Thank you. Let me just say, I didn't say that this is a thematic session, I said according to points, and 75 points here are dedicated to review, is actually by its content almost as thematic. So, here, let me just fix this thing. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12824	It's a replica of my colleague Jagodić. I'm sorry you didn't understand what I was talking about. The one who creates a position and opposition in financial discipline or indiscipline is pathetic. So today there is no position or opposition, we are all now in a position when it comes to making decisions regarding this matter. You didn't understand what I was talking about. Every year, there's a terrible effort being made, I was a member of the Finance and Budget Committee, and I know what it looks like, and I know what the effort is to get this job done, and every year we have the same opinions that come from the Commission and we haven't moved one cent because Parliament is being irresponsible. So let us show responsibility once and begin to resolve the audit reports and debate on this subject with dignity and in line with Parliament's task.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12825	Thank you. Ten minutes break on behalf of the SNSD Club. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to discuss the agenda. Replica, the esteemed representative of Zijad Jagodić. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, in front of club colleague Kalabić, if he needs to explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12827	The Honorable Chairman. We remain with what we have agreed on at the Enlarged College, meaning fully respecting the remarks of the MPs that they can be discussed and discussed and otherwise not slowed down to anyone. But there's one thing we have to say, and I'm going to take this opportunity to say, I don't think anyone in this room is going to say anything new today that doesn't say in these reports and what isn't said. I don't think anyone's gonna do it better than our budget and finance commission, who's made a move and who's doing so well. I don't think everyone who should do their job will do it better by saying more or less today, because we repeat this story. And if someone has a problem telling the public, here's six I can say that there's no effect from this story repeating it in Parliament because it's a problem with others. And we're going to come to a point in the problem of those who, I'd love to, and I'm truly going to listen to see if there's a shift in discussions and if there's anything new to say and there's no place to talk that someone wanted to shorten the debate, because it's impossible. So, everyone's going to have a chance to talk, the proposal is purely technical, so people choose there, I think you're going to explain now in what way you're going to do it, what we were saying yesterday, because that proposal doesn't stop anyone from saying, there's plenty of time to say something quality, which would be interesting to make a move. Honor and respect for everyone, but I know some discussions by heart, and I know they've been repeated 15 times and it's the same every time, but I say the effect is gone. I'm sorry to say that. The effect is not what we expect. If there were any other shifts, there are. What the Commission was doing and I think it was promoted there and it is going in some good direction, but there are too many expectations of parliamentary debate. It repeats itself for the tenth time, and I would like those expectations to be fulfilled one day. Today won't be safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12828	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12829	Here, I am further concerned now with what my colleague Kalabić points out. I see that fully in the SNSD is a completely conflicting mindset of MPs. And finally, you agree to tell Mr. Živković, who is sitting there, let the College agree that 92 points is normal for one session in one day? I really didn't want to rephrase my colleague, Majkić, but I think you have to agree on that. And common sense cannot confirm this, these 92 points of the agenda. Look, here come the directors, the reporters, what do we prove in this way? I think you guys in college need to make a deal. This is really funny and I don't know. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12830	I thank the esteemed representative Zijad Jagodić. But here, before the replica of dear colleague Živković, I will say. So, we agreed in the College. So, this proposal was unanimously adopted on the Uzma College, unanimously supported by the enlarged College, where all the representatives, or all the club representatives from this Parliament, and who says this will only last one day? So, we'll start discussing these audit reports, and if there's any need and how many debaters we'll do if we need three days. Honorable representative Milorad Živković is giving up on the replica. Honorable representative Drago Kalabić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12831	Well, here's a little winter time for me to listen to my colleague Jagodić. I understand the problem and everyone has a problem. The two currents in the SDA don't communicate before these congress times so they don't say what they're doing on the left, what they're doing on the right. You are a relatively new MP, so they have not informed you that up to 7 today, to this moment, the SDA has not made any comments and agreed to this agenda. So you need to discuss it at your club first like I took a break and discussed it. So your people agreed to do it like this and ask why it doesn't go faster? Here, I'll let you know, they asked for this to be over by 3:00. How they imagined it, I don't know. I do not mean this proposal by the Kolegijum to limit the discussion and that anyone is limited in what he means to say today. That can't be the essence of the proposal. The college had a technical question to make possible, because there are a lot of positive audit reports there that are supposed not to be discussed, not banned, I suppose. And what the chairman said, if it takes three days and it goes that way, I don't see any reason to limit it. But technically, if we were to put every dot, then we'd get to 12 days. Then they would come up to 12 days because the chairman puts it on a proposal, so open the discussion, and then answer it, don't answer it, and now imagine what it would look like, and this is what it's done here. The SNSD Club does not think that there can be anything in this proposal that restricts any discussion, especially quality discussion, and particularly quality proposals. No one, no one. And we haven't thought for a moment about how long today's session will take. It'll take as long as it takes, but she can't limit anything. And for this correctness, the Expansive College and the Kolegijum, it is attended by club bosses, all clubs in Parliament, and they participate in creation. And I would ask you to respect that when they agree on something. There is a way to make this deal, because it is the most important Parliament and this agreement can be changed here, but with a quality proposal like a colleague of Dušanka did. She made a valid proposal, about which here was the deal and going in that direction to be, not as if we were there. We didn't do anything without you. And nothing is done in this House without the U.S.A. and will not work. But now that Bakir's current is stronger so this Sulejmanov guy doesn't communicate, he doesn't carry it, now everyone's got these problems and let it go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12832	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12833	I thank the chairman. Well, here's what I needed to ask myself, what is the role of Parliament here when it comes to considering these reports. So this Parliament has chosen among its members and the Commission for Finance and Budget, individual reports were delivered to each parliamentarian in July of last year, this year a pardon, that is almost half a year. We had a commission that discussed all these reports in detail, which drew up the report and is an integral part of today's agenda. And of course there is also a question of the trust of the Commission's work chosen by this Parliament. We can, of course, discuss a few days here, but the question is, I am going back to what this Parliament is doing and what we want. Because I will remind you, last time the Commission discussed the report, for all those who, where the reserve opinion was, correct me, President of the Commission, proposed a reduction of 10% of the resources for the team. For all, therefore, the institutions where the reservation was considered, which is not 8 respected. This Parliament did not respect the adoption of the Budget. So, if we're going to come back to some conclusions today, discuss it for days, make some conclusions, and when we adopt Budget next time, we'll forget about it or not. Let us all ask ourselves, what is our role today? So, we have a commission that we show our mistrust, which has worked for half a year. Half a year ago, we all got individual reports. Instead of having one item on the agenda today, which is a summary report or debate according to the summary reports, with the Commission's opinion, so that it is a united debate with proposals that we will take into account when we adopt the Budget next time. Instead of acting like this, we want a little, a few days and adventurous spirit travel. I'm sorry, but I really needed to react. And of course, one remark and a replica to Mrs. Majkić, who told Mr. Belkić that when ours were in power that even then the Council of Ministers was not sitting there. Well, I just wanted to remind her that at that time, when ours were in power, the chairman of the Council of Ministers was Mr Špirić from your party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12834	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12835	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council. My replica refers to the presentation of the esteemed counterpart Kalabić. In fact, progress has been evident in Mr. Kalabić's statements from David Štrbac from Badger before the court to the SDA subparol. And I thank him for informing us of the state within the SDA. Actually, I don't think it's on the SDA agenda, but it's on the agenda for today's session. And it doesn't matter to us at the SDA Club how many points of the agenda you're going to go to today, you from the College, that is, here are your colleagues from the other clubs from the parliamentary majority. But it is obvious that one practice has been established in the last few months or a year to try to make the agenda with as many points of the agenda as possible,... to show that this Parliament is effective, and it is essentially inefficient and you know it well. Therefore, you can put these audit reports all at one point, we don't care, we will have our own judgment on each audit report individually, if we consider it necessary to criticise it. But, of course, don't blame the SDA for the inefficientness of this House, because of its inefficientness, here you are in the work of the College and so on. We will be very happy to participate in discussions on every item of the agenda. And no matter how long this session takes, we will certainly be actively involved. We also show this at sessions of committees where there are mostly you from the parliamentary majority, which is why there is no quorum, and so on. I think we should deal with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12836	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12837	Well, here's to answering my distinguished colleague, Mehmedović. All this and the parties are transparent. I agree. You're my favorite. I have the right to cheer for you in that game. Last time I bet on the Šefik, I lost everything I've ever been. So, you're closest to me if you want territorially, I can throw stone at you and I'll cheer for you, you can't forbid it. And my discussion was, for the sake of correctness, I accept very well what counterpart Hadžiahmetović said, so it has no effect. For the sake of collegiacy, I'm sorry to have to repeat that, the SDA is involved in creating this agenda. And it would have been our turn, for the sake of correctness, if it had been for you, that you had not put forth any effort, but had agreed to this agenda. For the sake of correctness and collegiation, I'm saying this. And you can't say, you in the College are creating, but we are creating the agenda, we are. So let's be correct there. The people of the U.S.A. participated in the creation of this agenda, agreed with it, and had no objections. I'd like you to appreciate that. We who have made some kind of effort, I have said that this is changing, but in order to conduct a technical session, we must recognize that there is an extended college. I know, Mr. Džaferović, that this discussion suits you, but what you can always do is it's like that, always for someone, until one day it gets dark, the other one gets lighted up. I think we should put this in order and respect procedures in a technical sense. Once again, I stress, Mr. Mehmedović, no move today must be denied any right to say about the audit reports. But if we support the conclusions of our Commission, as we have supported it, if we do so. And this, who liked it or didn't like what the esteemed colleague said – all those who wanted to punish the negative audit reports missed doing it on the Budget. That's the biggest punishment. We've kept it quiet, don't lie to ourselves, we've been pampered, we haven't done it, and now who's going to be these guys is going to be blushing because we gave them money, they're going to be blushing from what we're gonna be talking about today. He won't. I'm sorry to hear that. It's ugly that I say it in Parliament. He won't. This country has a million other major problems than this, it can't solve them, maybe one day they'll be able to solve this effectively, today obviously it doesn't have the strength. But this is a legal obligation and we are meeting this legal obligation today, and we have to fulfill it, not slow down, I didn't want to do it yesterday and today, any move to challenge anyone, but at the same time I can't support the once-in-a-lifetime beating of an empty straw.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12838	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12839	Well, look, Mr. Kalabić, it's your right to root for whoever you want, but please don't cheer for me, given your previous experience. Wherever you cheered, that side lost. And we were rooting in this local election for Mr. Kalabić, but there we were not allowed to have the head of the Prnjavor Municipality, but I hope next time. _________(?) We are pleased that he has remained a good representative in Parliament. 10 That's just because Drago Kalabić stays president of the club. But let each of us representatives from the SDA Club have the right to their own opinion and so is counterpart Zijad Jagodić. Quite politely, correctly expressed his position, he did not speak on behalf of the club. Our club president attended the Joint College and he put our position as a club there and we still support it. So again, I'm telling you, it doesn't matter to us at the SDA Club how many points of the agenda there will be, we will participate in the debate. And let's not make a problem out of it right now, but let's set up the agenda and go to work, because we have a lot of agenda points. I hope it's more than 90.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12841	Thank you. And I agree that my colleague Jagodić has the right to his opinion, but he has no right to replica anymore, and he has applied. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12842	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would ask you to take this request from me, since I've been applying for the discussion before the break, I don't know how... either I accidentally touched this key or you've taken me off the table, so I'm gonna use this time, not a replica, but a discussion, because I'm missing upstairs from the screen. I also have a different approach when it comes to this agenda today and a different proposal than it has ever been before. I personally find it particularly irresponsible and irresponsible to discuss such reports. They're lined up in the agenda by points. There is, however, a summary report on whether or not the summary report should be one item on the agenda. And here on the left-hand side, we are discussing something, a situation in a certain state, not in a certain one, but a state in institutions, financial and any other, the institutions of BiH, and those representing institutions there are none. I have prepared myself as much as I could in a pile of these materials, so I have prepared a little, not enough, but what I have prepared gives me the right to propose to this Parliament today that we remove all the points of the agenda on the report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office until we have all the representatives of these institutions here. We would have asked them very, very interesting questions for these institutes. I'm asking all of us a question here, considering, and to you chair and chair, to answer me, since here I may already be starting with some analyses, so maybe this, since some colleagues have spoken, quality debates might also convince us that today we should discuss only those who are positive or not at all, or to extend this debate for tomorrow, but that we have all those involved in this audit report present here. Recently, Parliament's chairman, Mr. Živković, received an answer to his parliamentary question, which I have here, probably he has, too, I'm not sure if he looked at it, 11 where he asked all BiH institutions about the structure of employees in institutions by national structure and the number of employees. So Mr. Živković received a reply from the Ministry of Communications and Transport, if there is someone from the Ministry to answer me that he has 94 employees, 94 employees.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12843	I just want to get this straight. Was this a replica or was it a discussion?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12844	I'm, sir, I'm a discussion, I'm not a replica, I'm the first in line for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12845	Okay, I appreciate that, but when it comes to the agenda, it's three minutes, so it's a restriction. And secondly, I'd like to ask you to stick to the agenda, and we're not asking questions...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12846	You know what, and we can formalize the chairman, really. You shouldn't be discussing it at all. I'm telling you, I'm asking you, since you want a discussion, so Mr. Živković got the answer that in the Ministry of Communications, where you were minister before..., there are 94 employees, and in the audit report, here says they have 105 employees. I'm asking you how many employees they have, I'm asking you how many employees are there? Here, you tell me, Mr. Chairman. And we will discuss this report.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12847	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12848	And not just that. We've got another more drastic thing. Recently, too, I do not know whether there is a positive report or a reserve report, where, for example, a representative or director of the Centre for Information and Recognition of Higher Education documents, means in response to Mr. Slavko Jovičić's representative question, which asked us how much fuel, vehicles, how much use and mobile we received from him in that response, Mr. Jovičić writes there that fuel consumption is 4.588.38 marks. And it's really wasted.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12849	Jurišić, you've been a minute and a half. Leave something to discuss.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12850	...nothing is understood because at the same time he talks to the chairman, Ljubić...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12851	I'm asking you to leave something to discuss, these things are not about the agenda. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12852	I don't need to discuss it. There's no one here I'd like to ask the chairman. Here, let me ask you, these aren't the ones I'd ask to blush here. Because they're stealing our country. And not only that, this one has a 600-mark cell phone code, Mr. Chairman, and we're called what our salaries are. By what rule? ...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12853	Col. Jurišić, this is a debate on the agenda, not the scale of things. Second of all, you've passed the time and I'm asking you to respect the order here in this assembly.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12854	Mr. Chairman, these are good arguments, the real reasons for us to take this all off the agenda, to hold a thematic session, I mean thematically, before the 30th and 01st with the people here to wait for us with the data...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12855	I'd like you to suggest a conclusion. We'll make a statement about him.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12856	My conclusion is to take these reports down.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12857	Please attach it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12858	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12859	Thank you. I'd be begging, so all the MPs to stick to order here in the assembly. We're discussing the agenda. The debate lasts three minutes. Everyone's going to get a chance to discuss both the line and the replica. Replica, a respected representative, Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12860	Dear Chairman, gentlemen of the deputy, colleagues and colleagues, I warmly welcome you all and wish you a successful work in today's session. The SDP club will support the agenda, as we agreed at a session of the Extended College, as suggested by the Uzi College. As far as my colleague Jurišić's proposal is concerned, he makes sense, he makes sense – bringing in the people responsible for these audit reports. But I ask the question - who will take the obligation to bring Mr. Alkalaj? Who will take the obligation to make Mr Halilović, Ahmetović, Cikotić, not to list those who were ministers during the 13th period for which the audit report discusses. So maybe the intention is good, but it's really hard to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12861	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12862	Well, Mr. Magazinović makes the claim and the fact that it's agreed on at the extended college this agenda. Problems arised when one of the parties to the agreement problemed the agenda. And now Magazinović reminds us of it and uses it along the way, of course the opportunity to trouble and personally direct and talk about who will answer where x was, where y was. Let's start discussing and we'll get to those names, I'm just afraid there'll be surprises.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12863	Thank you. Honorable representative Emir Kabil, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12864	Dear President, honourable MPs. I would like to make a few comments on the agenda and, as chairman of the Commission on Budget and Finance, raise my concern about Parliament's indifference to the Commission on Budget and Finance. The Commission for Budgets and Finance, however it may be, has made an enormous effort to take the audit reports seriously and to warn this Parliament through these audit reports, as well as the institutions that received the audit report on irregular and unquality work. Believe me, even in previous councils and this conference, hours have been spent, days of analysis, symposiums, seminars, where a protocol should be made that, if nothing else, will not punish, but rather warn of some illegal and unquality use of budget beneficiaries' funds. That's why for me, I speak for myself now, this agenda is ridiculous. This agenda is irrational, this agenda cannot be analysed or solved on any basis today. Why? Because we put in the same basket negative reports, which are our focus, and positive reports that are who they are. We will of course, given the background of everything, here we have agreed to support this, because it is obvious that it has nothing to do with any more, but I am concerned about your relationship with the Committee on Budgets and Finance and our efforts to do something and put the Audit Office in the right place. That's what worries me. Our constructive proposal today is to discuss all of these 80-70 points, at least these negative reports, and to get from you, if nothing else, verbal support that we have the right and think that if someone doesn't work quality, we don't punish them, but we warn of negative work. 10, 20%, which we have debated in some of our sessions and made as our own decision, about punishing some institutions that have shown public service in their work, obviously will not pass. He 14 could have been incorporated into this budget, as we had representatives of the Ministry of Finance who clearly said that the item absolutely did not endanger the Budget. You specifically said here that this puts the budget at risk. So these are things that aren't even high-qualityly explained on your part, Mr. President, because you said you couldn't insert that item. In this way, you have absolutely defined the function of the Commission for Budgets and Finance. So you put 150 dots, you have a very high-quality report on one, one and a half pages, we'll adopt that in 15 minutes, and we can end this all by lunch, unfortunately we haven't done anything, this Budget and Finance Commission loses its meaning, it loses its meaning. And to tell you the truth, whatever you do, it's obvious they'll adopt it today. But here's our proposal, some kind of club, that at least we focus a little bit more on this ridiculous summary report that's written, believe me, very well and on this intention of ours and trying to at least warn us of some negativity. Give us at least that much authority. Give us at least so much authority to acknowledge what we have been trying to implement for days or months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12865	Thank you. Before I give the replica to my esteemed colleague, Živković, let me answer because I was directly called by my colleague Kabil. So, with all due respect to the Committee on Finance and Budget, we voted on the conclusions made by the Commission. However, it was not possible to support your proposals to punish institutions because the predecessors did wrong in the previous term, and some of these parties lost the election because eventually their ministers did not work well. Therefore, and do not ask the president questions because Parliament voted, so he rejected those conclusions. So that's what Parliament did, not the president. Dear Representative Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12866	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I think we went the wrong way. The debate on the agenda, in my opinion, was concluded yesterday at an extended college. There were representatives of the parties, those who agreed to propose the agenda in this way today as a College. I think it is inappropriate of all the MPs who belong to the clubs to attack the same agenda that was already agreed on yesterday at the Extended College, which does not mean that every MP does not have the right to suggest otherwise that this Assembly is being led and that today's agenda is being considered, but must not be referred to the College of Criticism, but to all of us who have been in the Expansive College and who have agreed on the agenda. So the press knows that they were all at the Expansive College yesterday that agreed on a agenda like this. What are we talking about? Propose your colleagues and colleagues to download these reports, that on 30 January, before the January 31st session, if you are not informed, it is agreed that there are 3rd and 31st sessions in January, we are only considering audit reports 30. So let's see who votes for that proposal? What are we discussing here? One thing we agreed on, and now we're discussing changing the other. Okay, let's change the second one, here's the proposal, let's vote and move on. 15 SDS colleagues didn't come because Nikoljdan today, like I don't have the glory, I don't need to be at my father's party today, but I thought we should come and finish because there's not one other date until New Year's Eve when it's appropriate for all of us to be here. Why not say it? One thing you tell the press, TV, the other here at Parliament is that you're the biggest workers here, and we can't agree on a day when we're going to build a Parliament. Please, let's make a deal and work today as much as we can and get the job done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12867	I would like to thank the honourable representative and the Vice-President. And before I give my word to my colleague Babalj for the replica, let me let all future debaters, in the best interest of working effectively, remind me of Article 65 of our Rules of Procedure, which bears a subtitle – proposing a new and leaving out the optional item of the agenda. At the beginning of the session, the representative, as well as the authorising officer, shall have the right to request the absence of an optional item and to propose a new one with the relevant material in writing. The representative cannot present for more than 3 minutes, nor elaborate... the questions proposed as a item of the agenda unless the College decides otherwise at the request of the representative. So this is, I just read that we try to keep to the maximum what this phase of debate in Parliament means, and that is the debate on the agenda. That's it. I apologize for having to remind you, because I assume you don't all have this Rules of Procedure in front of you. Honorable representative Darko Babalj, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12868	We weren't at the College, I didn't mean to answer, but Mr. Živković called the SDS. Here's the thing. We're alive. We're here. And now that I've taken my word for it, I don't think it matters at all, and we agree, so here's the deal between me and the SDS to go as you agreed on at the College. And we know everything about how it's gonna go, and in the end it's not gonna be anything again. What I, as an MP now, resent to all of us that we should not be sitting here on these lefts or on the right, is here to sit the prosecution, the SIPA, the courts that are going to launch investigations against these audit reports that have had a negative assessment and a reserve report. But when the opportunity comes, we'll talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12869	Thank you. Honorable representative Emir Kabil, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12870	Well, I'd just point my replica at Mr. Živković, maybe we didn't get along, I don't know who he addressed his speech to. I made it clear that this agenda is dysfunctional and that it won't get any results. That is my opinion, and as an MP, I have a right to 16 to say it, because I know how much effort we, as the Commission, have put into our action and profiling, I would say the Office of Audit. For practical reasons, I said it was much smarter to discuss a summary report that was very quality written, I think it's very quality written, and to discuss negative audit reports that point to the problems of certain institutions. Of course, I think if these negative audit reports are going to be discussed they should be representatives of these institutions, call, on the right, left, middle side, I don't know who. Why do we need them? That people understand the message that we exist, not that we're just beating up what someone said, an empty straw. That's mine, my intensity of my speech was. If the terms are legally all taken, the College arranged, then not to lose energy, this can all stop in 15 minutes, we can finish all this by lunch. Now, that was my intensity to finally, and the purpose and existence of the Commission for Budget and Finance makes some sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12871	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, vice-president, responds to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12872	Thank you. In fact, you missed the chance to discuss it on the extended college that this is a huge agenda. You accepted on the Extended College that this is the agenda. I'm not taking away your right as an MP to now at today's agenda debate say it's a failure of an extended college and yours as a club, but make a suggestion. Here, I have put forward a proposal - we are discussing and giving importance to your Commission on 30 January. And what's the problem? I'm just saying that the discussions we are having here need to lead one conclusion that we're going to vote on and Parliament is going to say whether it's okay or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12873	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12874	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here's what I'm proposing, I'm going to suggest one conclusion and the explanation I'm going to give in the course of the discussion on these points of the agenda. So, I propose replacing the agenda points from 3rd to 72nd point – Considering the summary opinion on the financial statements of the BiH institutions for 2011 with the proposal for conclusions, as we have done so far. We introduced this paper a year ago, and we didn't have any significant results. 17 I am a member of the Finance and Budget Committee and I know how much time we have spent to reach this summary conclusion. We don't need representatives of 9 institutions that were rated negatively when we had oral and written correspondence with them, and asked for reasons why they made mistakes, and brought them in, and talked to them. Then the question arises why the Finance Commission and the budget if it does not appreciate its work. I think that, with the following experience from the previous cycle, when we were reviewing the audit reports in one of these ways through the pool opinions, there's no need for me to be here today and we're still having this debate, we just have to focus on what it says. And then, by considering this summary opinion, we can use all 72 institutions to say that the Commission has not defined things well, it has made a certain failure. I am prepared to discuss it as a member of the Commission and to accept such suggestions and perhaps in a faster way, and I am sure and a more quality way to resolve this issue. Thank you, that's it. Here, I'll deliver.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12875	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Vrankić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12876	Dear chairman, fellow MPs, distinguished guests. Here, I'm reporting with a proposal to unite the debate over all these points that are being touched by the revision with one note that we don't need to be in a hurry anywhere, we're being paid for this job, so if we have to do it every day, we move on tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, and we're working. However, I don't think there's any need to waste so much time because we have an extremely high-quality work of our Commission, and I haven't noticed that he respects and respects anything, however, we've got one quality review. And this is our Commission which we should respect as well as the other committees and it is in a position to help us and to have a successful work and successful debate on certain points of the agenda. For 61 institutions I don't think we should waste any time, we have... 30 plus 31, I think that's something that's good, that's one big progress. For these few we have, I think we can argue and our partner is on the other side of the audit. They're not individual agencies or their people. If I were them, I'd be and I'd like to hear what's being said to make it easier for me to work tomorrow. But I think we have enough space to discuss, especially about these nine that are a little more critical in this position. And the proposals and the debates that our Commission has made, I think, are high-quality, and I think the summary report allows us, and we won't waste as much time as we want to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12877	Thank you. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12878	I thank the chairman. 18 So here, given that I have recalculated myself around the replica, if I had no more right, it would be more a replica than a discussion, but my colleague Vrankić took one part of that story. But I didn't have the space not to answer because it became alarming with today's discussions of imputing to the Kolegijum and the Expansive College that he wanted to secure the Commission's work and that we have some last intention with these audit reports, which is not true. Which is absolutely not true. And it wasn't brought once, we said once, but that degree of disrespect for the work of the Kolegijum, which Mr. Kabil showed, and asked the House of Representatives to respect his commission, is not correct, Mr. Kabil. Twice yesterday he sat down with an extended colleague of yours and a tight college, and they were doing something. They have an obligation to prepare this session according to the Rules of Procedure. And you threw it aside today where your member, your member of your party, was sitting on that College. At the same time, you claim that the predstavnički of Representatives humiliated your Commission, which is not true and that is what counterpart Vrankić said. It's not true, on the contrary, we hold onto it. On the contrary, this is how the Finance Commission works it's better than it used to. It used to switch to the House of Representatives. And I think this is much better, and I don't see any reason why we've put anything in an awkward position by the Commission. On the contrary, we were going to praise him today, promote him, support all the conclusions, and I don't know what you're up to, just what your expectations are from the House of Representatives. To hang this House of Representatives. We don't have that, we don't have that option. But I'll tell you something else. As President of the Commission, you supported the budget. You haven't fenced a single sentence from the Budget. And Budget was a little disabled this year. Let's not lie to each other. It was an Invalidan Budget. You were expected to stand up and say it wasn't right. You didn't do it. You didn't, because when we discuss all this, we get to the leader, because the leader said don't answer, support and let it pass. There you go. You listened to the leader and remember that you obeyed the leader and that's how it was. And remember often that there are a lot of problems in this country with the leaders and that the problem with the leaders is not with us, because we are the result of the problem, we have a problem with the leaders. We adopted the Budget, which is what my colleague Azra was talking about, where we shouldn't have given some institutions as much money as they got. And you were the first to do it because it was on your commission to react and say, at least say you disagreed. You haven't said a single word. And that's how you threw your year of work back into the wind. Here, if you want to treat it now. Because you and I were supposed to say, at least let's say it wasn't right. We didn't even show the letters. We missed it like that, but let's at least not teach each other a lesson, a Kolegijum in an extended composition, and a Uži college prepares the session the way it prepares. If that's wrong, let's change it, but somebody's got to do it. And it's not correct to say that, here are the five members of the College who participated today, yesterday's session and without, I'm finishing the discussion, without any intention of questioning at all. It was a reflection of the majority opinion, in the end it turned into unanimous, that anyone was discussing, that anything was relevant, that new conclusions should be made, and God Bog anything should be diminished. But I'm going to do it again, and by doing it, reality can't change.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12879	Thank you. Such leaders and MPs. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, the debate. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12880	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I am entitled to tell you that I do not consider this time lost that we have spent in the debate on how to treat audit reports here in front of the House of Representatives because I consider this to be an extremely important issue and how it is, therefore, it is obvious that this House has matured the belief that the House's relationship with this issue has changed. And this discussion today, I don't blame any discussion, I take it as a discussion with a view to finding a better model, or a better solution, or the best model and the best solution in the debate on these reports. That's why for me, all the suggestions that are highlighted here today are legitimate and can satisfy what we as a Dom should do. For me, it's not really a question of whether we're going to have this many agenda points or one set of agendas. He can do both. For me, it's actually the key thing of the debate itself. A large part of the work was done on the Commission, I agree it is seen from the report, from the proposal of these conclusions, the Commission discussed the report in detail, I suppose that the Commission was also the auditor, that there was also a responsible person from the institution, that there was a contradictory debate and that the report was then the same report, as was delivered to us. That's why I suggest we turn to the essence. It can remain this sort of agenda, as Mr. Salko suggested it would be a summary report, so we can go into debate, but we can go into debate from institution to institution and when it's a summary report from institution to institution. And then the President of the Commission, who is now the most responsible, says on behalf of the Commission here what is it that has been the recommendation of last year's audit for the institution, in a minute it can be said for each institution, what is respected, what is not respected and what is the Commission's proposal for measures. The most important thing Parliament can do is open up to the BiH public whenever it comes to the financial business of every BiH institution. And I suggest that we do that, however it may be, it can stay this way of the agenda, but for me, this is the essence. You said you invited responsible people from the institutions. I wouldn't have brought anyone here by force, but I'd have figured if he hadn't come. And it is a message to us here in Parliament, if there is no time to come to Parliament when it is discussed, so the most responsible person, on the audit report of financial operations, then I do not know why he has time or she, of the responsible persons. So that's the message. So I suggest this is how we approach this business, so in one essential way. The point is to tell the public and the institutions in this way to enforce the law, what is it that has been the recommendation, who has disobeyed the recommendations, who has made the recommendations and what the shortcomings in these findings are. Let the public know about every institution. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12881	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić, replica. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12882	Thank you, Chairman. Well, Mr. Džaferović said a pretty good part of my thoughts. I don't think we should discuss formalities here, that we should, whether this agenda is a proposal for both the College and the Expansive College, but I just think that we should consider the essence of the auditory councils. I don't think we can discuss this in a good way if we don't have a representative of BiH institutions. We need to make sure these BiH institutions pay for a square of business space from 8 km to 40 km, which is at the expense of the BiH Budget. If that's not the point, and if it's not worth it, these representatives, maybe somebody should really pay 40 marks, maybe more, but here's what we need to convince us that we can discuss this in a quality way in front of the BiH public and present to them that that's exactly how it's supposed to be. We have in these audit reports, or in our institutions we have different regulations. Well, let's just say, at the Justice Department, 7 employees use official vehicles, while in the Ministry, I think, economic relations no official uses... I am sure, in addition to a quality debate, with quality recommendations from MPs and with... representatives who have made recommendations to make it even, yes. I said a little while ago, and with the Cell Phone Regulations, some institutions have 600 marks, some 200 marks. So we have to ask, perhaps 800, that there should be like you, as chairman and chairman of Parliament. But we are the subject of public debates about high incomes, about luxury, and those for which no one else knows, I look at here a very rude answer from the Derk for Mr. Jovičić, is, do you care how much we have, says we are an independent Regulatory Agency we have nothing to do with the Budget. What's that, you know, an up-to-date answer. Well, they should be called, too. Whose agency is this? I don't know either. Here, we are not the founder of Parliament. That's why I'm saying that we need to discuss the point, that it doesn't matter if it's today, we can, I agree completely with my colleague Kabil, in 15 minutes put this on, close our eyes and say, here we have done some parliamentary work, we haven't actually done anything. So here's what I'd like you to ask, and here's my suggestion to conclude that you consider putting this off for about a month or so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12883	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12884	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. My replica refers to Mr. Šefik Džaferović's presentation. I mean, I don't agree that we are having a debate today about each individual and that the president of the committee is saying what has been done and what has not been done. All these materials that were done and what hadn't been done we got six months ago, so there was an opportunity for each of the MPs to say, to see how many of the institutions she had done. And now that I've already called to say that we at the Budget and Finance Commission held a debate at several meetings, which lasted five, six hours, that each individual from the institution 21 came, with the presence of the Ministry of Finance, with the presence of the audit, and the most responsible people in the institutions of the audit, where we pointed out each individual to his mistakes and failures. And I think today, I agree with the proposals that speak, but it should especially be a debate, whether it should be a thematic session and so on, nothing is disputed, but we just need to see what the result of these discussions will be. And for these reasons, I think that our Commission's proposals are to a good extent the basis for today's debate to build up and say what else needs to be done. There are those who don't get a lot off when you make an observation, and there are those who accept full responsibility, for example. In particular, Mr. Secretary of Defense was where he accepted everything and one with his entire team of associates, he accepted all the remarks and made proposals and so on. As decided, but I personally think that we have room to discuss all individuals in the summary report today. Where there is a positive report, there is no need to discuss it in particular. Although all of this should include some other institutions, where there are suspected problems, all of these reports have been submitted to both the prosecution and other institutions, they are a public document, they are on our websites, and everyone can do their job. I also think that Parliament's decisions should be a little bit more respected and respected, not through presence, and that speaks of the minister's attitude towards Parliament, but also through the decisions we make. It seems to me that once we should analyse these decisions, what has been made, and what has been achieved, or what the Council of Ministers has done with those decisions. Perhaps in that direction we should have a debate in order to raise Parliament's dignity to the level that suits it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12885	I thank the honourable representative. Here, I feel the need to say, of course it would be good if the ministers were here, but I've been informed that they have a Council of Ministers session right now. On the other hand, we have people present here, I guess from these institutions that are invited, whether of all that I don't know, but it's much more important that these institutions have this report and they have it and they got it and they know about it before we do. Therefore, if they feel the responsibility to follow that report and if the other institutions in charge of law enforcement are doing their job, then actually the responsibility of the representatives is not whether they will respect audit reports or not, then they should be held accountable to the citizens who have elected them and to Parliament, but of course other institutions have, they can have jobs. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12886	I've been trying, here's the last hour, to figure out what we're discussing. Forgive me for taking so long to figure this out. We're discussing the agenda, the draft agenda. And if I've picked up all the strings right now, the extended college, which is business-authorized, in charge, properly, however you like, has set out a draft agenda and determined what mandatory agenda points are, among other things, these points that are already being debated so much. We don't have business opportunities today, so we don't have business opportunities, and the president warned us about article 65, to take these points off the agenda. If we want to respect ourselves, if we want to respect the Expansive College which is an institution of business, it's not this or that, but the business 22 institutions, so he's the institution of this House. So our Constitution, this Rules of Procedure, says that we can't take these points off the agenda today, and I haven't heard, and I haven't heard what we're discussing business on the agenda, I haven't heard that someone suggested a new agenda point, nor have I heard an explanation to take down some optional agenda item. So, so these are mandatory points of the agenda. Business,... they have to meet at the House session and it has nothing to do with the College. So the College can only break the Rules of Procedure so this doesn't go in the agenda. hajati's respect the Rules of Procedure, let's respect the Expansive College, let's talk about these points and let's show whatever anyone thinks they need to say about these points. And I invite, here are the Presidents and the College to return to the frameworks of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12887	I thank my colleague Lozančić. I was just reading article 65, and I wanted to warn you about this thing, but I thank you for this clarification. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12888	Well, here's a fellow member of the Lozančić Replic, and I can see that my colleague, Majkić, is already saying that in the last session, whether five points of the agenda were taken off at the session. So Parliament can make any decision. Parliament can also adopt a budget in 2012 for 2011 And the Constitution said, this is what Mladen read five times, how to deliver it to the Presidency by 15.10, so that the Presidency should adopt it all, one as we adopted it, but in a more relaxed atmosphere, than in one day two readings. So I said, "Is it the last time, who is discussing the amendments?" The amendments are being discussed, is, here's counterpart Kabil he's in the Committee on Finance and Budget, I mean he doesn't write it anywhere, it's such a nakarada that's just going on here in BiH. I guess the Proposer of the Budget is discussing the amendments. But here, it's behind us. So we're running away from the essence again. So, we can take it off, Parliament can take it off, not have someone derivate the decision of an extended college. I'm going to ask the questions, but I want to discuss not only the sum, about each, so I'm going to ask questions, here's Niki Lozančić, since he's... how much, here's the answer to the question -- that I don't know, I don't know, the police are working, in response to 2,260, and the audit office wrote that he works 2,730, so I'm going to ask how many. There's no Vink Dumančić to answer that question. I guarantee through this report and through the answers to the questions to the MPs. And to you. Me too. And to all, is it, to hide us a minimum hundred employees here, two thousand marks of 200 thousand marks, times 12 months, here. But we need to satisfy the form, we need to satisfy the form. Then if we go with this proposal today, it will be without discussion to adopt it or just to discuss the summary report briefly so that we do not eventually derivate or humiliate the work, means the Commission for Finance and Budget. And, is it, in essence, where we fly millions of marks doesn't work, is it, if you don't care about anyone or that budget, this country pays for business spaces so that we know when contracts are signed, that we know and whose business space is it? I know my cousin has rented space, maybe it's even in my interest that the higher the price of that space. If we're not going to discuss it, so we don't really need to, 23 which says whether it's empty stories, discussion, replication, here's just to say that we've proposed and talked, that we need to realize, or keep to the dignity and dignity of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which is part of this House itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12889	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12890	Well, you can see that we could evenly discuss all the issues that concern both business procedures and jurisdiction and so forth, illegality, probably all of us would have to know the same thing about the business we're dealing with. Now it's funny to replicate someone who didn't bother to read some things, you know. I'm just warning means the Rules of Procedure of this House, not my Rules of Procedure, not the Rules of Procedure of the House, he's our Rules of Procedure, and as long as we don't change him, he has to respect himself. That's the first thing. Another thing, if someone thinks that at any session, at any session, even if it lasted three days, they'll be able to do as much as the Finance and Budget Commission has done which, here are colleagues, I haven't felt that anyone... the work of the Commission right away say, I'm a member of the same Commission, we've had public hearings, we've had the presence of responsible people, we've had questions and answers and verbally and in writing, we've had the presence of the Office of Audit, we've had one teamwork that lasted tens of hours. And you have the result of that work in front of you. You can believe it and not believe it. The problem is our consistency, our consistency, if we will, so look at our fellow advocates' conclusions when we discussed this issue last year, and let's see if we can talk about these conclusions, and let's say how consistent we are. So, again, if I didn't jump out of the Rules of Procedure, so this is what I had to answer, these dots are mandatory points of the agenda as much as I like it or someone else's or don't like it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12891	Thank you. Honorable representative Saša Bursać, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12892	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, to welcome all my colleagues and all those present in the hall, and yes, and I apologize to my colleagues, and to congratulate all the Srbin who celebrate tomorrow svet Nikola's christening glory, and to congratulate all BiH citizens on the coming New Year's and Christmas holidays. And here, now I'm thinking, which is the most effective way to stall, and here's two hours we've spent on nothing, so I'll make a little contribution to that delay, seeing that it's modern, it's probably going to go out tonight in the media, it's probably going to come out who's stalled the most, and I'd reward Mr. Jurišić for stalling, and that's where I replicate. We need 24 discussions on the agenda, and you've caught up with the number of employees and who knows what kind of things you don't. Mr. Chairman, I'm asking you, cut it short, so all of this, let's talk about the agenda, don't delay, we've already spent two hours on, I don't know what. Please channel this, give some concrete suggestions that people have suggested or respected, I am in favour of respecting the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, so as you have agreed on at the College and to work. It doesn't make any sense anymore to talk about something that's really become funny anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12893	Thank you. I also join the congratulations of all Orthodox people, so both Srbin and other Orthodox people on the holiday of St. Nicholas. But as for shortening the debate, so I can't deny it now, shorten the time in the middle of a debate on the agenda. I, reading article 65, tried to channel the debate to the essence of this phase of debate and, of course, every MP along with me has the same responsibility for the work, effective work of this Parliament. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12894	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I would like to contribute my contribution to the debate on the agenda of today's session and it is difficult to say something new after these discussions. Indeed 92 points when you say it seems a lot. I must say immediately as an MP I accept more points and accept and work for three days, but the methodology of work, we would have to discuss it a little bit. We are discussing the 2011 summary reports and I, as a member of the Finance and Budget Commission, had the opportunity to listen to some of the directors of the institutions, hear their opinions, hear their answers to some of our questions, but this is always a smaller part, that's the part for, specifically for 2011, we had those nine institutions. I'm interested, I don't have anything to do with this formulated agenda of an extended college, but I have against methods. And what do I mind? I have why these 67, 71, 72 or 50 who may be, is not the problem Alkalaj is no longer a minister, we don't have to call him, why aren't they here? Four years of my term as an MP will pass if I don't know most of the people who run the institutions, here I don't know by accident here says – the BiH Public Procurement Agency, that I have to see that director. Most of all, we have problems or... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So you see a colleague as you know, I don't know if he's a director or a director, for me, he's, look out for this in the context of the agenda, so I think this agenda should have been followed by the presence of the director of the leading people of these institutions. And one more thing, there are colleagues here who have proposed a concrete amendment to the agenda, to consider a summary opinion, and to take these 71, 72 points just as 25 contributions to the Commission's summary opinion. It's not a bad idea either. But I really can't understand that in four years, we will only come to 2013 at the end of our mandate to discuss 2012 on this Council of Ministers. And one more thing, he won't get angry with counterpart Kalabić, I know he's a big Democrats, this good lecture always gives us, one of his findings is really interesting, when he says -- that, well, we're not MPs, we're the wrong leaders. Well, let us also put these leaders in the context of this Parliament or the context of some authority to invent or at least replace them. And here I can promise my colleague Kalabić...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12896	That you'd replace yours.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12897	No, not a colleague, no, not a colleague, I expect you to replicate to me. When there's more candidates in the SNSD and you're up against a candidate, we'll definitely be rooting for you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12898	Thank you. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, vice-president, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12899	I would like to say that I absolutely think that the interventions that Mr Lozančić had, Bursać, so here is my colleague Belkić, absolutely justified. We're at the agenda point where we need to determine the agenda. We have up to 3 minutes each MP, and for two hours without having to discuss it so much, he should have suggested – I suggest taking down or including a new agenda item and my arguments are for that, and use my 3 minutes. We're unfortunately today, here's two hours late with the beginning of the session, because yesterday at an extended college, the president of the SDA Club wasn't at an extended college. Understandably, here it can be, I don't know why the vice president of the SDA Club wasn't at the extended college. So if even the deputy couldn't get five more MPs in the club, no MP has come to the session of the Expansive College, and today everyone has applied here for a session of the House to debate. I do not think that we should boycott the work of the Expansive College, such as the practice and with the Joint College, that it would be a good idea to agree before that and establish a better connection in the next period, perhaps in relation to the head of the club of MPs and other MPs. I remind of 42 MPs, 40 MPs are classified in this House in clubs, only gentlemen, i.e. Mr Belkić and Mrs Hadžiahmetović are not in a club and I think they are the only ones who have the legitimate right to propose new points, all others who participate in the work of the Expanded College would still have to behave differently in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12900	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić does not have the right to reply, but if he is a businessman then. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12901	Here comes a number of business people, next to you, the chairman, it's up to you. Not for a moment until Lozančić and these people warned you, you didn't call on the Rules of Procedure for one moment. These two hours, this is a discussion about materials. So, gentlemen, all of you who spoke were discussing materials. Let's get on the agenda and you're done, you said everything you had on the audit, so let's do this and get this over with. It's up to you to chair and don't please let this happen again for two hours full of this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12902	Thank you. But it's not true what you said. Before my colleague Lozančić debated, I read here in front of all of you article 65 and returned to the Rules of Procedure. But I repeat, there are 42 of us who are equal during the session and it is in fact a duty for all of us to take care of the efficiency of this Parliament. Honorable representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, the businessman, right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12903	Please, it is not correct of Vice-President Denis Bećirović to blame the U.S. for these lost two hours in discussions. It's not right. So here we are the only one, I won't say the only one, but the strongest opposition party and now the opposition is your fault that you are inefficient. Here you go, do your job, direct the discussions in the desired direction and finish these discussions. Did I say on behalf of the club that we don't care how many agenda points there will be? Whatever you decide to do here, you have most of it, and it bothers you that we express our position. And again, we're going to go with you, whatever you decide, we'll back it up, and don't, don't blame the SDA. Listen, please, there was no president of the Representatives' Club at the Expanded College. Here, we support your attitude, here's what you want more. But let's do more. I think it sucks more to discuss the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12904	Thank you. That's how we closed the debate. We have two suggestions of conclusions before and I will put them on a statement in the order they were delivered to me. We first have the conclusion of the distinguished representative Zvonka Jurišić, who, I will write it in writing, so I hope to read it correctly. - I propose that the item of the agenda be downloaded from 3rd to 73rd and that these be placed on the agenda of 30.01.2013 at the Parliament meeting, with the mandatory presence of the representatives of the institutions to which the audit reports relate. He gave the explanation himself, so now I don't have to read it again. 27 Prepare to vote. Vote now. I'm saying, with a total of 4 for, 18 against and 7 abstentions, so this conclusion didn't go through. We move on to another conclusion proposed by the esteemed representative Salko Sokolović, under the title of the draft agenda. The bottom line is. - I suggest replacing the agenda points from 3rd to 72nd with point 1 which is said to be - Considering the summary opinion on the financial statements of the BiH institutions for 2011 with a proposal for conclusions. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 13 votes to go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12905	I'm expressing my suspicion and requesting a repeat vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12906	So, distinguished representative Denis Bećirović demands a repeat vote. Are you ready to plead? Stand by. Vote now. I find that, with seven votes to, 15 against and five abstentions, the conclusion has not been adopted. This is how we move on, and I'm realizing that the 39th session of the House has the next Agenda 1. Approval of the minutes of the 37th and 38th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Representative questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New issues of representation; 3. Report of the Financial Insurance Agency's Financial Audit Office for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-781/12 of 02.07.2012; 4. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business of the BiH Food Safety Agency for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-782/12 of 02.07.2012; 5. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH State Service Agency for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-783/12 of 02.07.2012; 6. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Postal Transport Agency for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-785/12 of 02.07.2012; 7. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Personal Data Protection Agency for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-786/12 of 02.07.2012; 28 8. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Market Control Agency for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-788/12 of 02.07.2012; 9. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Agency for Pre-school, Primary and Secondary Education of BiH for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-789/12 of 02/07.2012; 10. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Audit of Financial Operations of the Agency for Identifying ICs, Records and Exchange of BiH Data for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-790/12 of 02.07.2012; 11. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Audit of Financial Operations of the Police Support Agency for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-791/12 of 02.07.2012; 12. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Agency for Labour and Employment for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-795/12 of 02.07.2012; 13. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Statistics Agency for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-796/12 of 02.07.2012; 14. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Foreign Investment Promotion Agency for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-797/12 of 02.07.2012; 15. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Affairs of the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Resources of BiH for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-798/12 of 02.07.2012; 16. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Audit of Financial Operations of the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-799/12 of 02.07.2012; 17. Report from the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business of the BiH Public Procurement Agency for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-818/12 of 03/07.2012; 18. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Education and Professional Training Agency for 2011, link: Act No: 01-16-1-819/12 of 03/07.2012; 19. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH High Education and Quality Insurance Agency for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-820/12 of 03/07.2012; 20. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Anti-Doping Control Agency for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-821/12 of 03/07.2012; 21. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-822/12 of 03/07.2012; 22. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the 2011 BiH Archives, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-787/12 of 02.07.2012; 23. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Centre for Mine Elimination in BiH for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-839/12 of 03/07.2012; 24. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Audit of Financial Operations of the Centre for the Information and Recognition of Higher Education Documents for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-841/12 of 03.07.2012; 25. Report from the Financial Audit Office of the Central Harmonization Unit MFTBiH for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-840/12 of 03.07.2012; 29 26. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on Financial Affairs of the Central Election Commission in BiH for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-842/12 of 03/07.2012; 27. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH European Integration Directorate for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-825/12 of 03/07.2012; 28. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Operations of the BiH Civil Aviation Directorate for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-826/12 of 03/07.2012; 29. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Economic Planning Directorate for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-824/12 of 03/07.2012; 30. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Police Body Coordination Directorate for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-828/12 of 03/07.2012; 31. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security of BiH for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-823/12 of 03/07.2012; 32. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection of BiH for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-827/12 of 03/07.2012; 33. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Return Fund for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-873/12 of 05.07.2012; 34. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Affairs of the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-874/12 of 05/07.2012; 35. Report of the BiH Financial Police Audit Office for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-881/12 of 05/07.2012; 36. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Monitoring Institute for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-846/12 of 05/07.2012; 37. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Accreditation Institute for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-847/12 of 05/07.2012; 38. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Missing Persons Institute for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-848/12 of 05/07.2012; 39. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Institute for Intellectual Valuation of BiH for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-851/12 of 05/07.2012; 40. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the Institute for Standardisation of BiH for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-852/12 of 05/07.2012; 41. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-849/12 of 05.07.2012; 42. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Consumer Protection Institution for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-850/12 of 05.07.2012; 43. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH concessions Committee for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-853/12 of 05.07.2012; 30 44. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the BiH Commission for the Conservation of National Monuments for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-864/12 of 05.07.2012; 45. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Competition Council of BiH for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-855/12 of 05/07.2012; 46. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Ministry of Communications and Transport for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-829/12 of 03/07.2012; 47. Report of the BiH Ministry of Justice Financial Audit Office for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-830/12 of 03/07.2012; 48. Report of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs Audit Office for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-831/12 of 03/07.2012; 49. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on Financial Affairs of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-832/12 of 03/07.2012; 50. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Ministry of Security of BiH for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-833/12 of 03/07.2012; 51. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on Financial Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-834/12 of 03/07.2012; 52. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Audit of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-835/12 of 03/07.2012; 53. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-836/12 of 03/07.2012; 54. Report of the BiH Ministry of Defence Financial Audit Office for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-837/12 of 03/07.2012; 55. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Srebrenica-Potočari Memorial Centre, memorial marking and mesars for victims of genocide from 1995 for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-838/12 of 03.07.2012; 56. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH State Department for 2011 Liaison: Act No: 01-16-1-877/12 of 05/07.2012; 57. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-875/12 of 05/07.2012; 58. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Presidency for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-879/12 of 05.07.2012; 59. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Affairs Review of the BiH Ombudsman for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-882/12 of 05.07.2012; 60. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Financial Communications Regulatory Agency for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-880/12 of 05/07.2012; 61. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Audit of Financial Operations of the Foreign Affairs Office for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-870/12 of 05.07.2012; 62. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on Financial Business Audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Joint Affairs Office for 2011, link: Act No: 01- 16-1-871/12 of 05/07.2012; 63. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Court of BiH for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-872/12 of 05.07.2012; 31 64. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Prosecutor's Office for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-878/12 of 05.07.2012; 65. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Office for the Review of BiH's 2011 Appeals, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-854/12 of 05/07.2012; 66. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on Financial Affairs of the Office for Veterinary Affairs for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-863/12 of 05/07.2012; 67. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the BiH Health Protection Authority for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-865/12 of 05/07.2012; 68. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the Office for BiH's 2011 Law, link: act No: 01-16-1-866/12 of 05.07.2012; 69. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the BiH Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-867/12 of 05/07.2012; 70. Report of the Office for the Audit of Institutions on Financial Business Audit of the BiH Impaired Taxation Authority for 2011, Link: Act No: 01-16-1-868/12 of 05/07.2012; 71. Report of the BiH Constitutional Court Financial Audit Office for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-869/12 of 05/07.2012; 72. Report by the Office for the Audit of Institutions on the Financial Business Audit of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2011, link: act No: 01-16-1-876/12 of 05.07.2012; 73. Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for the period January-June 2012, the BiH Presidency's material, number: 01,02-16-1-1190/12 of 23.10.2012; 74. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Higher Annual Capital Investments of the BiH Institution", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-1-1162/12 of 10.10.2012. (scheduled debate and statement at the 37th session of the House of Representatives, held on 06.12.2012).; 75. Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "The Management of the Central Park in BiH Institutions", material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office, issue: 01/4-16-11166/12 of 12.10.2012. (scheduled debate and statement at the 37th session of the House of Representatives, held on 06.12.2012).; 76. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Law No 01,02-02-1-51/12 of 07.12.2012; 77. Request of MPs: Dušanke Majkić, Beriz Belkić and Niko Lozančić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption under the shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Law No 01,02-02-1-52/12 of 10.12.2012; 78. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Commission for Gender Equality, Law No: 01-02-1-44/12 of 08.11.2012. (second reading); 79. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Committee for Gender Equality, Law No: 01-02-1-43/12 of 08.11.2012. (second reading); 32 80. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law establishing the Institute for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No: 01,02-02-1-47/12 of 28.11.2012. (first reading); 81. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Bosnia and Herzegovina Judicial Police – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-50/12 of 04.12.2012. (first reading); 82. Report on the work of the BiH Appeal Office in 2011, material of the BiH Appeal Office, material number: 01/4-16-1-506-2/12 of 31.10.2012. (scheduled debate and statement at the 37th session of the House of Representatives, held on 06.12.2012).; 83. Report on the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the priorities set out in the European Partnership with BiH document 2008-2012, material of the BiH Directorate for European Integration, issue: 01,02,03/6-06-1279/12 of 15.11.2012. (scheduled debate and statement at the 37th session of the House of Representatives, held on 06.12.2012).; 84. Annual report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2011, material of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH No: 01,02-50-19-1261/12 of 13.11.2012. (scheduled debate and statement at the 37th session of the House of Representatives, held on 06.12.2012).; 85. The fourth report on the implementation of measures to improve the conditions of business in agricultural production and the food industry of BiH with the Appendix to the Report, material of the Council of Ministers of BiH, issue: 01/3-28-1206/12 of 29.10.2012; 86. A review of the initiative of MP Šefik Džaferović, which was followed by the 36th session of the House of Representatives, held on 22.11.2012, which reads: "I propose that the following information of the BiH Council of Ministers be discussed at the meeting of the House of Representatives: (a) Information on the implementation of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina, (b) Information on the state of the labour market in BiH and the proposal for measures to be taken to reduce unemployment"; 87. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Mr Šemsudin Mehmedović on the debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of Nermin Purić as a member of the Joint Committee on European Integration, which reads: "The Joint Commission for the Control of the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH is tasked with harmonising its work with the Law"; 88. Giving consent to ratifying the Funding Agreement (Arrangement Development Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Development Association, the BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-1357/12 of 07.12.2012; 89. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement (additional financing for the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Access Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01,02-05-2-1356/12 of 07.12.2012; 90. Giving consent to ratifying the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the participation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Europe for Citizens programme, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-1342/12 of 03.12.2012; 91. Giving consent to ratifying the Amendment to the Agreement on Amendments and Supplements to the Agreement on financing between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank – Bosnia and Herzegovina, Project of the Czech Republic (Sarajevska detachment) FI No 20.515 – SERAPIS No 1998-2395, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-1358/12 of 07.12.2012; 33 92. Approval to ratify Amendment No. 1. The financing agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank, signed in Sarajevo in 22.12.2006 and 08.01.2007 in Luxembourg – Power Recovery II (FI No 23.871), BiH Presidency material, number: 01.02-05-2-1355/12 of 07.12.2012. So we're done with the 92nd agenda, and we're going over this agenda. The first point is, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes with the 37th and 38th session of the House of Representatives The records from the 37th and 38th sessions you received. Do you have any objections? There isn't. I'm closing the debate on point one. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Representative questions (a) Comments on answers received
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12909	Dear chairman, distinguished guests, colleagues and colleagues. I am obliged to comment on the answers received at the pre-session, but because of the extensive agenda, I asked and received the consent to do so at the first next session, and here I am using today. So the parliamentary question was addressed – who uses all diplomatic passports? And when I saw that list, I think we have more diplomats than the State Department. First, I know a lot of names there, but I also asked to see relatives, aunts, aunts, uncle Amija, uh, the one that's impossible to get. Let me put this short, I'm only going to take one example and that's because I know a man, not because 34 I have something against him. Dževdet Tuzlić, journalist BHTV1 diplomatic passport. I guess what he's walking on that red carpet, so he can report from Cannes, I don't know, either in front of the theater and the diplomatic passport. On what grounds? I'm asking the Ministry again to introduce order. On the other hand, I've been looking for official passports. I don't even want to get that material, because I don't believe that at least one 50,000 BiH residents, although we don't know how many of us, will be left without these official passports, that everyone has. Now, I'll talk later when the audit report comes in, and I've got a set of these answers, and these are all the questions that our review has identified. Costs, fuel, I don't know cars, this, that, the institutions. But, my people, should the Deputy Joint Service drive an official car? Does it take eight SNSD MPs and nine to sit in office 4x4, and to pay rent for someone, I don't underestimate anyone, a 40-square official who won a branch, is that in Mostar, Banja Luka or Sarajevo, to pay the rent? Do people need a deputy minister's advisor to have a pay phone of 200 KM? And our chairman, every commission, is a 150-km limit. Should I..., should people do this. I was comparing one piece, and when I got some data, my head hurt, I gave up. Because this doesn't even have a revision, so I'm going to get this straight with you, because all of these data won't even put it on you, of course it will. What I'm going to add to you when all the ride is to the Javezluk. But what I've got, so this is people riding around unseen, and this is such a waste, I'm asking if we're going to raise that Budget, and last time, I don't have to legally threaten anyone, don't make someone look like they're increasing VAT on this poverty and poverty. These audit reports are a complete failure of BiH. There's no one who doesn't drive an official car, who doesn't use fuel, phones and everything else. Are we going to put an end to it? And I could use a special session to explain this. But when I see this, I'm sorry I timed out, I'll just have one more sentence. Mr. Chairman, I have no one on this left to say - give the people a thematic session. And he says, uh, some director, we made a decision under some of his rules. Whoever adopted your rule, man, when everything's on the air, when you're all wasted out there, when all the living take away from this poor girl. And he calls out to us, I don't defend us MPs, we should be in focus, but just because we allow this kind of noise, what they do, what they write here, their misery to misery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12910	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12911	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I asked the question at the 32nd session of the House of Representatives – is it true that the technical examination of the motor vehicle carried out in one entity is not valid when registering a vehicle in another entity? The reason for this parliamentary question was the return of a larger number, especially business entities that have business units in both entities and which face unnecessary costs, because if they have a business unit, say Sarajevo's firm in Banja Luka, then only for technical examination should vehicles be brought to Sarajevo because it is not valid for a technical examination of a vehicle carried out in Banja Luka or vice versa. 35 I have received an answer that I am partially satisfied with. A response from the Ministry of Transport and Communications that informed me that this issue was resolved by the Road Safety Safety Act on the BiH Roads and the Vehicle Technical Review Regulation, as well as by the BiH Regulation. Unfortunately, they have informed me that they have no idea that technical examinations are not being recognised. I'm sorry, I think we should have that kind of knowledge, if we're doing our job, and I'm still not commenting. I ask the Ministry to ensure the implementation of the Road Safety Act and the Regulation on the Technical Review of the Vehicle, as both acts exclude the inability to carry out a technical examination valid throughout the BiH territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12912	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12913	Thank you. I also want to express my dissatisfaction when it comes to answering questions raised over the past period. For more than half a year, I've been asking a few questions, first of all, to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, of which I still don't get any answers. It's about traffic policy, traffic strategy, action plans, postal law, the Law on Railways. All that, the Air Navigation Act, is about the right sea and so on. Unfortunately, to this day, however, I am not getting an absolutely no answer from this ministry. Secondly, I also asked the question – what about the Transport Safety Council, which my colleague Lozančić was talking about. We each year about 300 BiH citizens die. About 10,000 people are involved in traffic that suffer severe bodily injuries. Unfortunately, however, this counsel from a year and a half ago has not yet been established. Practically, I really want to ask myself who to ask more questions if we don't have answers to the specifics that matter to this people. I also asked the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations questions regarding the protection of domestic production – what specifically to do in this situation where the country is in terms of tourism development, in terms of incentives for exports? Unfortunately, there are no answers. And this time I want to ask the College of Parliament to look at these things and to in some way whether they are looking again in every instance. If we do not receive answers, we will neither ask questions in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12914	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević. Here you go. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12915	I launched an initiative in August 2011 to declare, in accordance with the European Parliament's decision on August 23rd, the day of memory of the victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. Since I had not received any notice of status and of my initiative in the 33rd session, I asked a representative question asking me to answer the status of this initiative. And now I've got a response from the Council of Ministers. From the answer, the current status of the initiative is clear. Since the initiative itself has not been completed, I expect that the Council of Ministers will soon have all the elements to respond positively or negatively, of course, to the initiative launched. I just want to comment briefly on what's been delivered. It is obvious that individual bodies, individual ministries, individual governments, etc. examples for the sake of the RS Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Labour and the fighting disability protection have been negatively determined according to the initiative itself, and the government of the Federation of BiH has not yet responded to the sixth emergency statement on the initiative itself. I must congratulate on the level of civilization reached and these institutions and those who do not want to answer clearly. I remind you that by adopting August 23rd, the European Parliament has requested that all countries that are members of the EU and all countries who claim to join the EU do the same. Obviously, we have reached such civilization standards that it is simply a formal issue to join EU countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12916	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12917	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. As early as March, when I took over the position of MPs here in the House of Representatives, I submitted an initiative relating to the meeting of both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, to discuss the European path of BiH and the position of our country in the process of approaching the EU. You know I've been renewing that initiative several times before. So the last thing I got was not even an answer, but there was a notice signed by the chairman of both homes, where here after 7-8 months, they brought me back to re-route the question to the House of Representatives. So I'm saying that really one of these relationships is extremely incorrect, unprofessional. I think it's bad for this country. In one of these ways we show in fact, we show our relationship and our advantage to deal with serious issues in this country and on the other hand, so we are most clearly saying that we are concrete things and what we are politically talking about, what we stand for, is actually that it is completely in an ephemeral place when it comes to our position and our policy. So, the government obviously does not want to discuss this, and I therefore want to, here again to refer the initiative to the BiH Council of Ministers to prepare and urgently deliver here to the Parliamentary Assembly information on our country's European path and position in the process of approaching the EU, I will extend it to NATO this time. 37 And another thing, I submitted an initiative to finance institutions of culture of importance for BiH, with a special emphasis on the Earth Museum. After the competent Commission sent and asked for an additional opinion from the BiH Council of Ministers, the initiative disappeared somewhere. This way, I am renewing my question and initiative towards the College of the Home. So I ask – what about this initiative, in fact, and I appeal to the urgency of considering this initiative, not drawing again the importance and position of the institutions of culture, I repeat, with a special emphasis on the BiH Earth Museum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12918	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12919	I thank the chairman. Here, let me begin by thanking Mr Ninković, who delivered, as he says here, the answer to the parliamentary question although I stressed the last time that I respected the position of the College not to ask Koelgiju parliamentary questions. I'll just remind you, at last session of the House of Representatives, I asked the Council of Ministers questions, which is correct in the minutes, from last session, and it was about an initiative that was adopted in the House of Representatives a year ago, and it was about the debate on economic issues. So, Mr. Ninković, thank you. Another clarification, I didn't ask the College because I appreciated your attitude, questions were asked to the Council of Ministers, and I expect an answer. But here, let me maybe just take a short chance. Since it has been more than a year since we submitted the initiative, the economic situation in BiH has been drastically deteriorated, economic growth has been reduced, fiscal deficits have been indicated, the number of unemployed has increased and external debt has also increased. Until the initiative is on the agenda,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12920	Excuse me, I invite my colleagues and colleagues to refrain from talking in benches and let the debaters explain their views in peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12921	So let me just point out that as long as this initiative is not on the agenda and that some conclusions of the BiH Party's MPs will refrain from any additional task of BiH. Therefore, the consent, ratifications to credit obligations, will be without the party's vote for BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12922	Answering the parliamentary question, honourable representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12923	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I received an answer to the question about the conclusion of BiH's and its neighbours' state border contracts. I thank the Council of Ministers for providing me with that answer. I'm not satisfied with the answer or the situation in that area. I cannot understand that it can be declared that, therefore, they can give declarations or declarations that the sovereignty, territorial integrity of the neighbouring country is respected, and that the Treaty of Borders is conditional upon previous exchanges of territories, for example. That's what we have in one case here with one of the neighbors and that's what I'm now publicly protesting here. That's what I can do and ask the Council, I don't think the BiH institutions on the other hand have done everything they could do to resolve this issue. So the issue of BiH's borders with neighbours must at least be internationalised. It has been a long time since we have recognised each other within internationally recognised borders, and we all know where these borders are, and then from time to time these borders are being challenged. And here, there are demands, we know where the border is, we're looking for a previous exchange of territories, and then we'll conclude the Treaty of Borders. It can't do that, the border is first of all, the Treaty of Borders must be concluded within the limits that it is. And I propose that the BiH Council of Ministers consider this issue in particular and that in relations with our neighbours, so if it should be with the European Commission, this issue is internationalised to finally complete this job in the right way. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12924	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, a comment on the response from the last session. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12925	I thank the chairman. Namely, my question was addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations – at what stage are the negotiations between BiH and the World Trade Organisation on BiH's entry into this organisation and is it true that the condition for this organisation is to allow imports of genetically modified organisms? And if so, how does the Ministry intend to meet this condition, considering existing legislation in this area? I received a reply from the ministry saying that from May to November, when Mr. Šarović was practically a minister, he made some progress in this, and that BiH is in a hurry to enter the World Trade Organisation, but also that we have passed a law that allows genetically modified organisms in the form of food in BiH to be transported through BiH, but that they need certain first requirements, and then permits to be made. Knowing the state of the laboratory and our mechanisms that need to be very strict to such requirements, I doubt that such requirements will come to BiH and what type of approvals will be given, in relation to BiH's willingness to respond to these conditions. And worried that according to the RS Law on genetically modified organisms, which explicitly prohibit both use and transport, and anything else with genetically modified organisms, this legislation will be brought into line with the Law at the 39th level of BiH. I therefore ask an additional question – were there so far requirements under the Law on genetically modified organisms that such food-shaped organisms in BiH should be used? If so, who are the permits given and in what quantities? Since I am last on this issue, I will not comment on the new parliamentary question, or read it, but deliver it in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12926	Thank you. That's how we ended up with comments on the answers received. Moving to b) New Agents' Issues First for the word came the honourable representative Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12928	Mr. Chairman, I will refer my question to you in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12929	Okay, thanks. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12930	Gentlemen chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I have one question on behalf of the club and three short questions on my behalf. I'm asking the Council of Ministers on behalf of the Club. According to reliable information, RS MUP officials are visiting the ground in return settlements and illegally carrying out checks on the residence and residence of citizens. If they do not find any of the persons in the address, they shall make up an official note on the basis of which the persons are deleted from the records of the citizens who have their residence in the area of the local community, i.e. the municipality. I ask the Council of Ministers to be true, to verify the truthfulness of this information, and if it is correct, we demand an urgent reaction, because it is anti-constitutional and illegal activity. We also ask that the defendants of this activity be held accountable for abuse of their official position, as well as that the consequences so far done be annulled. In my name, I have three short questions. First, I request a review of travel abroad of all members of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with travel costs paid by Parliament in 2012. 40 Second, to provide me with a list of representatives and delegates with total incomes based on participation in ad hoc commissions and others for which they receive compensation. Delivery of data for 2012 and for both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. And third, when the College of the House of Representatives and the Joint College will start planning activities in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, as well as international activities align with the activities of homes and commissions, as there are more and more non-representatives from committee meetings, which makes it impossible to work due to lack of quorum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12931	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12932	Thank you, Mr. President. My question goes to the BiH Justice Ministry. Namely, the public and I, as part of that public, have recently been informed that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, after a long period of time, has appointed the Prosecutor General in the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. By the way of these same media we learned, if that's true, that the person appointed to this high and responsible duty has no second working experience in the prosecution's affairs. So my question goes to the Ministry of Justice – Is it even possible to appoint a person on such a responsible duty without having any working experience on the jobs for which he is appointed? And secondly, if there is no professional reference to the duty, which was the reason for his choice, especially if it is known that candidates with years of experience in prosecutorial affairs, including, as far as I know, one of BiH's deputy chief prosecutor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12933	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12934	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. Very often in the media are certain information that sometimes confuses the public, and on the other hand there are no reactions from competent institutions, and I am not so sure how much we will succeed only with our questions, which means that, when something appears in public, the institutions should disprove it, deny it or get to know the public. In that sense, I ask the question. Lately, we have had the opportunity to hear, through public information, that corn contaminated by aflatoxin, which is dangerous for human and animal use, is on the market of BiH and the countries of the region. Similar findings come from the Institute for 41 Food Safety from the countries of the region, so I am interested – How much is the Council of Ministers and Food Safety to know about the presence of contaminated corn on the BiH market and whether extraordinary studies have been carried out on the existence of contaminated corn on the market since this year's drought has favoured the development of this very dangerous toxin? Does the Council of Ministers, or the BiH Food Safety Agency, have an action mechanism if there are positive findings on certain amounts of alphatoxin-infected cereals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12935	Thank you. Dear Commissioner Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12936	Thank you, Your Honor. My question is addressed to a management organisation called the Central Harmonization Unit of the Ministry of Finance and Treasury. The Internal Audit Act, which was passed nearly five years ago, so in 2008, has not yet been fully implemented, we see it in the audit reports what the situation is, as a consequence of financial indiscipline and the non-transparency of public money spending in BiH institutions. Accordingly, I ask the following questions to be answered: – How long has it been since the implementation of the Internal Audit Act? Specify exactly what was implemented and what was left. – Is the Central Harmonization Unit fully in place and has all the necessary regulations been laid down by law? – Has the internal regulations in BiH institutions been harmonised with this Act? – Has the Central Harmonization Unit, in accordance with Article 25 of this Act, produced the Annual and Consolidated Internal Audit Report for 2011? Did he adopt the Council of Ministers? And whether or not I ask that report to be delivered to me for insight. And with the sense that Article 24 (i) provides for co-operation with the BiH Institution's Audit Office for a more efficient, more efficient internal and external audit – please inform whether this co-operation has been established, and what has been the results so far? I must also say that at the 29th session of the House of Representatives, the session of the 7th of this year, I have sent a parliamentary initiative to include in the agenda an analysis of the situation in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the diplomatic consular network. To this day, this initiative was adopted at the 31st session of the House and, with the opinion of the committee responsible to date, I have not received an answer to that question, and that means that we still do not know what our status in the DKP network, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is. And I'm surprised by the response I received from the chairman, so from the Colleges, in fact, the House of Representatives, which has been responding to my initiative since 09.04.2012, which was an initiative to discuss both homes of the Parliamentary Assembly on the topic of "BiH and NATO Integration". The chairman informed me that, given that by the end of July 2012, he had not received a reply to the 42th Bureau, he asked the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of the North Atlantic Alliance and asked them to see if they could prepare an opinion on whether the debate could be held. So it's amazing that this subject, which every MP should know about, we can't get from any institution. So we can't get from the Presidency, we can't get from the Council of Ministers, so we, the BiH Parliament, knows nothing about NATO integration. That's a really bad message we're sending from here.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12937	Thank you. Dear Representative Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12938	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all together. I have one question and one comment. I ask the BiH Presidency – What does the BiH Presidency do or plans to do to improve co-operation with the bodies and institutions of the Council of Europe? This refers in particular to the appointment of candidates to positions: in the Venice Commission, the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman and Demeaning Treatment or Penalty, the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, the bodies of the National Minorities Framework Convention and other bodies. So, I'm curious about how long it's been with these appointments, and when is this job going to be over? I refer to you, Mr. Chairman. As of this morning, access to the Internet has been disabled, free access to the Internet in this room that was previously possible. I got information from the clerk, so it's disabled, and I'm wondering who made that decision, and why is that? If it's a cost rationalization, I welcome it, if it's a fear that this session will go public on the half-empty session hall, then I don't support it. Question, so I'm directing you because I don't know who to direct him to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12939	I didn't realize, so this remark. I've been informed by people who have been outside that we have a sit-down on the Internet, and I don't know anything about it in the O.R., but since we're supposed to be discussing the agenda here, then I don't think that should be a problem. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12940	So my question is to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and to the position of the legal person, i.e. by the process. I have learned from the press that the resolved, one of the resolved members of the Central Election Commission, filed a lawsuit with the Court of Justice of BiH and asked for a provisional measure against our decision, hence the House of Representatives' decision, on the appointment of new members of the Central Election Commission, claiming 43 that this was done contrary to the law and at the time of the election process, calling for Article 2 of point 15. BiH Election Law. Bearing in mind the debates that we have led here, which I was very interested in and initiated, and our conclusion from June this year, where we have made clear that the appointment of new members will not be done until the election process is over, the question arises whether we were then, when we chose new members and we knew, I suppose, that the Court will not be able to reconsider, but the election procedure has not yet been completed, at least in some form, what effect will it be if the Court of Justice accepts this suit, or appeal, the action, bring temporary measures and ultimately judgment in favour of the applicant? So our decisions, or decisions of the Central Election Commission since 27 November, so I checked, would be out of force, or would be declared invalid. Of course, that would produce a kind of legal uncertainty, which would put our reputation at risk. And I ask the question – who will be responsible if it happens? And believe me, I'd like to, of course, if it didn't happen because of the reputation of our house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12941	Thank you. Dear Representative Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12942	I have several initiatives for the BiH Council of Ministers. The first is – I propose that the BiH Council of Ministers, within its competence, make a decision on the establishment of a diplomatic academy in BiH, and adopt other necessary acts to enable the institution to work urgently and actively. A brief explanation: So, I think our country needs a school for education of diplomats and civil servants from foreign affairs, as well as other institutions, units of state administrations in charge of international relations and co-operation. The second is also an initiative to the Council of Ministers – I propose that the Council of Ministers prepare and provide Parliament with information on the use of health care in BiH with special emphasis on primary healthcare rights, and the treatment of patients outside the entity, i.e. the canton where the patient has a permanent, permanent place of residence. In an explanation: The media recently announced that patients from the Unsaniscan canton when they go to surgery in Tuzlo must carry blood with them so that the donors do not have to go personally, since there is allegedly no contract with the Federal Transfusion Centre. So I'm not going to particularly explain why one of these, this initiative, is needed and why such information on the media was touching. And the third is – I propose that the BiH Council of Ministers, in co-operation with entity, cantonal, the Brcko District Education Department and the Conference of Education Ministers, prepare information with a proposal for measures aimed at reducing the weight of the school bag for primary school students. 44 In an explanation: Recently presented research conducted by the International Association of Dodor of Medicine from Bijeljina, which showed that more than 70% of class II students in RS carry a bag over the limit of weight. The problem of heavy school bags is also pointed out by doctors who warn that the results of systematic examinations of pupils in primary schools often warn about problems related to spine and foot deformities in children who are caused by the weight of the school bag. I believe that the Council of Ministers and our institutions should take care of this and prepare this information for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12943	Thank you. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić. I would ask the MPs that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, one question, one initiative. If each of us has more initiative, more questions, the question is when are we going to end it? _________(?) It all stops in three minutes. I know, but it says one question in the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12945	Please, it's me.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12946	Excuse me, Zijad Jagodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12947	It's been kind of me since the beginning. I have two initiatives, I hope the parliamentary majority will respect these because I'm really doing this for them. Look, the moment we're missing and there's a shortage or deficit of money, I'm really looking at where in this House we find ideas, programs, how to get to the Budget that allows all of us to work normally. So by analysing the situation in the economy, first of all in the banking system, I prepared an initiative to read. Therefore, I urge that the fees for each payment transaction made by legal and natural persons to banks, post offices, as well as exchange offices are subject to the amendment of the VAT Act, the Official Journal and that, in the section that defines financial and monetary services and prescribes the obligation to pay VAT on the invoiced fee but without increasing the applicable tariffs. Since our 45 banks, there are about 25 of them in BiH, they make an extremely large profit, they pay no one anything, they account for anything, they lower it to a minus zero, I think it's sad that in the last nine months they've had 160 million marks of profits, and I think that at least VAT should pay if anything else. The second initiative also refers to, I know that bankers will say what we've been focusing on them, I think that, through the current regulations, I suggest that the conditions of taxation of balance sheet sums of banks are also tightened, which would ultimately lead to more significant and favourable lending, above all economics. Given that banks hold certain assets, and from time to time they only do the positions and transactions that they certainly make the profits, I think it's a good thing that this decision does, too. And I just sent it to the Council of Ministers instead of the Administration of indirect taxation and the Management Board of Management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12948	Thank you. The word is from MP Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12949	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A parliamentary question to the Director of the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, Mr. Goran Zubac – What are the reasons for conducting two disciplinary proceedings against the director of the SIPA Regional Office in Sarajevo, Mr. Rašid Pavić, who resulted in Mr. Pavić's suspension for six months and a reduction of salary by 20 per cent and a ban on promotion in service over the next three years? Reason: Given that in the first 9 months of this year SIPA has achieved the best results of its formation and that these results have been achieved mainly thanks to the activities of the SIP Sarajevo Regional Office and its chief of staff, Mr Pavić then this move by the Director of the Agency for Investigation and Protection is illogical without giving significant reasons for such a procedure. And second question – I ask the Ministry of Security to provide me with an ethnic picture of the executive staff at the Agency for Investigation and Protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12950	Thank you. The word has an MP Dragan Vrankić. Here you go. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12951	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I have a question that I refer to the Council of Ministers – Does BiH have a development strategy? If there is none, when will there be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12952	Thank you. A brief clear question. Next MP, Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12953	Thank you. How much oil and oil derivatives have been exported from BiH, how many oil and oil derivatives have been imported to BiH from 01.01.2012 to 01.12.2012? Question is, I'm asking the Directorate for indirect taxation.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12954	Thank you. Mr. Slavko Jovičić. I believe he will be as concise as the predecessors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12955	That's how it's gonna be, Mr. Chairman. I refer the question to the Presidents of the Court of Justice of BiH – To provide me with information, not as far as it is condemned, how many people from what age, because we read in the press, but how much is currently on the maintenance of the convicted persons, on which grounds and national structures and in which criminal correction institutions. Even though they already know, and I know they don't know anything, how many more people are waiting to handle the penalty for lack of capacity?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12956	Thank you. The word has Nermin Ćemalović. If there is anyone else, please sign up for a list of MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12957	... I'll be in writing, for the sake of respect of time, handing over my question representatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12958	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12959	Thank you. My question is addressed to the BiH Veterinary Office – Who are importers of meat and meat processing of all forms and species, for which needs and in what quantities in 2011 and 2012 do they come from? Did the Office have any objections to the quality, import procedure or any other observations that have connections or affect human health? ... my question is the consequence of certain writings of the media that meat is very suspicious of quality, bad for people's health, it was in BiH but that the institutions remain silent for now on the issue of journalists. Here, we'll try this way to get an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12960	Thank you. This is what we ended this part of the agenda. Before we move to the third item of the agenda, my colleague Živković and I agreed to take a five-minute break, but really take a five-minute break and then get back to work. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12961	I would ask colleagues and colleagues to take their seats. If there's anyone else outside the hall to come in because we're going to keep working. So we've exhausted the agenda point – Agents' issues and before we move to the third point, I suggest we open a joint discussion of the reports from points 3 to 75. And that is why I propose that we vote immediately on this proposal agreed by the College, so that we unite the debate on points 3 to 75, including 75. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 20 votes for, one abstention, a sufficient entity majority, this proposal has been adopted. And before the debate begins, as chairman of the House, and given the extensive agenda that awaits us, I'm limiting the debate to five minutes. Ad. 3. - 72. Reports from the BiH Institutions Audit Office on Financial Business Audit of the BiH institutions for 2011 All reports of the BiH Institutions Audit Office have been delivered to you earlier and 05.12.2012. you have also received a summary opinion of the Finance and Budget Committee on these reports with habits 1.2.3 and 4. 48 30 institutions are assessed by a positive opinion and 31 institutions with a positive opinion with an emphasis on the case and they are processed in attachment number 1. Attachment No. 2 consists of: (a) The institutions assessed by negative opinion are the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence of BiH, (b) the institutions assessed by the reserve, which is the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, (c) the institutions assessed by an opinion with the reserve, with the emphasis on the subject, and these are the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Office for indirect taxation of BiH, the BiH Presidency and the Office for Veterinary of BiH. Attachment number 3 is the review of the most frequently identified findings in the financial management audit of the BiH institutions for the period 2009-2011. This appropriation is intended to cover: The commission also suggested that the House adopt 13 conclusions that I would not read at this point, but when we plead then, if necessary, we will read these conclusions. Therefore, this applied to points 3 to 72. Ad. 73. Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for the period January-June 2012, BiH Presidency material
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12966	So five minutes for all these four areas, right? Okay. So, very briefly. For me, it is absolutely acceptable to have this summary report as well as the recommendations and conclusions, and it is particularly important to me that monitoring is provided for execution and that is the key, I think, in the future of some of these activities that I am the President of the Finance and Budget Commission, Mr Kabil, slightly expresses doubts about what I have been taught so far. I think it's a timing problem. I've talked about it on several occasions, the timing of different documents, at different times we adopt them here and they have very much to do with each other. So, the report on the execution of the Budget is only adopted in the second half of the year for the last year. The budget is how when it happens, and here's the review report, so at the end of the year itself. We could even consider it in 2013. So we are experiencing a kind of inconsistency, i.e. a lack of certain data to get a total image in this area. In my opinion, it is crucial to point out here that we should first clean up in front of our doors, as the people would say, because of practically 5 institutions with a reserve with an emphasis on the case, we have 3 key institutions in BiH, so the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Secretary-General, the Secretariat-General, look out for the Secretariat-General, the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the Presidency. And we still have highlighted one incorrect relationship of the General Secretariat towards the Commission, not even satisfied, as far as I have learned from the report and from individual ones, that they appear at all before the Commission and that they declare some of the things that the Commission has pointed out. The only three negative opinions, so under this when I say clean up in front of my own door, are in three significant ministries -- defence, foreign affairs, human rights and refugees. No matter who led them, it's about 2011. These are the three ministries that practically most of the funds and are pulling out of the budget. I was asked the question, and I couldn't find it from these reports and so on, and from other documents, consultation, who is essentially the person, name and last name, responsible for the financial business of one institution? Who's the commanding officer, who's the accountant? Does the minister sign all payment orders? Does the foreign minister even know where the funds are spent and how they are spent? Does the chairman of the House of Representatives ever sign any financial documents? So we have a problem, at least I have a problem, I would be glad if the auditors answer me – who is the responsible person in one institution, any of these here? I couldn't find it anywhere and it would solve a lot of things, because I'd be talking about names today. I would very much like to talk about names that the public knows who the people are responsible for these negative reports, or reports with the reserve, with the emphasis on the subject and so on. 50 But here, not to spend too much time, so I also support these systemic measures and corrective and conclusions, etc., but a brief comment on the conclusions. Of course, I see that since 2011, our conclusions have not been respected, regardless of the interventions of the Office, i.e. our Commission and this Parliament. I have a problem with how it's going to be realized now, no matter how long it takes to be adopted by the Budget, we haven't adopted these conclusions about the reduction, I'm talking about the conclusions of 12 and 13, so that they can be realized at all even if we adopt them today. I'll vote for them, but we passed the Budget Act. The law on the execution of the Budget cannot be changed by other things, it can only be changed by amendments and additions to the Law, i.e. by rebalancing. At least that's what I think. But here, anyway, I'll support it. The report on the execution of the Budget, which is what I was just talking about, so we are now considering the report on the implementation of the Budget for January-June 2012 and that is still good, but we have recently considered the 2011 report. The evaluations carried out in relation to the plan are not... so that we do not have a plan, we are not working on the plan but it was about temporary funding and the rest is just to verify practically spent, so that these items are planned, implemented and so on. They had no purpose, this is all a post-festum practical and there is nothing to discuss in particular. So now the question is what could have been done and what could have been done when all these indicators were the result of the agreement on the fiscal framework that this House took to knowledge and verified practically, i.e. these reports and so on. So, as far as this report is concerned, I don't see any big purpose of any particular discussion about it, but it shows that BiH institutions are practically on artificial breathing and that they don't practically have room for more serious and creative activities, development, their capacity to exhibit and so on. So, the level of Budget through this execution we see is at the level of survival of institutions. Of course, there's both rational spending and so on. When it comes to the report on the review of the impact of the multiannual capital investment, I find this information very, very useful and instructive, i.e. giving a number of valuable data relating to the Public Procurement Act and indicating the reasons why some capital investment could not be realised, but I miss it, I don't know whether it was provided, the indication of these institutions why it is so, what you stated in this report on the impact audit carried out. I have no indication of those institutions that could explain why some things were going so slowly or they were making mistakes. As for this report on the impact audit of the management of the rolling stock, unfortunately the audit was not in a position to stand in front of our garage in the morning to see who was coming, who was driving, how he was driving, etc., so you would get an even worse picture than this is written here. And I think there's one loss assessment missing because of what we've got, a little bit, so we're being stolen by a state car, a little bit, so a state car is being stolen. And it's kind of a picture of the effect of using the rolling stock, i.e. how to use the rolling stock whether it should generally be...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12967	I'm just asking you to count on time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12968	Here, I'm done. Here I am now... finished. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12969	Thank you very much. I would also suggest, given the shortened time for the debate, that MPs who need to react more widely to these reports in writing form of delivery, also with the debate to deliver so that this could then be incorporated into the Parliament's appropriate indication. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12970	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. And here, I hope that in this year we will consider these reports before the adoption of the budget in order to make it even more effective and this is also the task for me as a member of the Committee on Finance and Budget to ensure this in this year, so that these reports are considered before the adoption of the budget, so that they can be adequate and applicable. And here, I need to say briefly, as it relates here and to Parliament, I was in charge of the BiH Presidency Committee, as you have here in the report opinion with the reserve with the emphasis on the case, it had. And I'm going to say this briefly, so the opinion with the reserve was because it employs persons on the basis of an act contract, and the emphasis on the subject is that there is no controlled cost of cell phones, telephones, vehicle use and representation services, point 8 and public procurement needs an additional promotion. In the response we received, which I received from the Presidency, they say a clear reason which has the basis for recommendations relating to the work contracts and which is not realised, are mostly objective nature and are related to the expected constitutional changes that will potentially condition the new Rules of Procedure on the work of the BiH Presidency, i.e. the systematisation of jobs in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat. So the key is, I wouldn't abolize the presidency either, so they, whether there will be constitutional changes or not, should have adopted a systematization of jobs. So, they have the systematization only she has overcome, because this systematization that she has passed is still many acts, laws, everything that has passed, they have not brought the others, so ad hoc is done and we need to help the Presidency in some way, and not abolize because there are constitutional changes in this House which, we all know, are very important to BiH and it depends on the structure and work of the Presidency. And as for the impact review of these two points, so it refers to the same thing. Basically in all institutions we have these things that apply to the Presidency in practice, so that there is no regulated these costs and that is one key point, here we will also have today one point regarding public procurement, and that there is one disadvantage in the system where public procurement is not well complex, not well defined, we have the braking process of the whole and the damages that are in place. Now, politics is the one, so it's clear that BiH will have 3,000 and 400 and some vehicles, of which 2,000 and 111 personal vehicles, it's a matter of politics whether we have or not. We can have more, we can have less, but we need to, once again emphasize, prescribe and announce that there is no 52 anarchy as it is now. And I'm recommending and recommending that we here adopt this, and I thank my colleagues that we worked with together, this summary opinion where some recommendations are given. The truth of this recommendation regarding the 2013 reduction, we cannot adopt it, so we missed that part, but I hope in this year that we do not miss and that in this year we end up in order to have this effect, so that our effort and work will not be in vain. And certainly the institutions of the auditors at the level of the BiH state should give the same further support in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12971	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12972	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I have had the opportunity to participate in the Commission, which has lasted several hours and in the discussions that we have held, to give my opinion, suggestions and suggestions, and to participate in making the conclusions that I support, with what, at first I should say, we should modify some that we cannot objectively change, that is the conclusion of the 12th and 13th that have passed, and that, with the rest if there are any other proposals that should be accepted at Parliament in any case. I'd like to start with a summary report. He speaks of an irresponsibility of institutions where only 7 recommendations have been resolved, 17 is under way, while 36 has not been considered at all or has not been resolved. I bring the problem here because in a certain way, the costs in which people personally influence, depending on how they are regulated, by which regulations, give an individual in an institution the right to adopt a rule that determines the costs of the phone, the use of the car, and that is quite justified, regular and so on. I disagree, I agree that at the level of the Council of Ministers, such a rule will be passed which will define exactly who has the right to use the car, who has the right to the cost of representation, who has the right to mobile phones and so on. That these costs are not small, they are 9,822,790 KM, of which 4.200,000 are fixed phones, and we are constantly having a debate over how mobile phones are critical, and here are 4.200,000 fixed phones. Well, I'm not sure it was all meant to be more efficient, efficient work. It means that there are certain reserves where we can safely reduce. 10 million is almost not small funds, of which the Internet itself takes away a million marks. Temporary and occasional jobs are 8,300,000, 3,700,000, the lease of space is somewhere around 39 million. And here, individuals have said that in some ways we need to regulate the question of renting space to determine that this space is known to which amount can be paid. No sublegal acts, etc., irrational spending of means for official travel, etc. When it comes to the Ministry of Defense, I think the Minister of Defense came along with the entire team and accepted all the suggestions that we put forward, and I hope that the new Minister and Head of Defense will overcome this problem. In particular, I would point out that there is no end to the demarcation of expenditure on the purchase of materials of 502,000 marks, then the issue of advances given, in particular the Technical Remont Institute and other institutions, has not been resolved. Therefore, the purchase of a lot of oil that is more than 500,000 marks and prices range from 1.98 to 2.08. I think in that direction, the Department of Defense will have a lot of reasons not to face these things anymore than to deal with the way it's meant by law. 53 When it comes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I must point out that exactly, people and individuals are making such problems that the public is under the impression that they can do whatever they want here. For example, it is. In two goldsmiths only took 25,000 marks without certain procedures, I don't know who to give gifts to if it's said that the gift cannot exceed 50 euros. Act 215,000 contracts. In particular, this deal of action applies to people who are employed or have a job description similar. Or the use of the phone, 7 cell phones are owned by one man, which is wrong. I congratulate the review that dared to give a negative report, but no better report was in the last year either, but we didn't have those results. In short, let me just say when it comes to reviewing the effects of the rolling stock – 3.549 vehicles cost 25 million, or valued, 60% of which are passenger vehicles. I mean, when the uniform rules of use are made, then the assistant deputy or deputy assistant will not have the right to use the car, especially since it has cars that are used for 24 hours. You don't mean the most responsible people here, I think they should have, but they don't need low-class referents to have. Or, say, no one uses city transport services, all our institutions are here at home, but that's why we spent 36,000 on taxis, then using private vehicles 470,000. And what is particularly funny is the use of a vehicle, says – Sarajevo-Banja-Banja Luka-Luka-Sarajevo 360 km, second order 690 km and third order 348 km. There is only one exact amount, the others are, and this is still the worst Sarajevo-Mostar-Banja Luka-Sarajevo 2,010 km. That man was on his way to work that day, that he wasn't at all. So this is the thing that immediately the same second internal control can see about, that day can't be the man at work over 2,010 km. Here's the thing, I hope I haven't wasted much time, and I thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12973	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12974	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I think we have the possibility that even with the proposed way of working, we can carry out a quality debate, so before we have a good preparation with good analytical materials of the Office for Audit, with the views of the Finance and Budget Committee, and with what is said during the agenda, I think we will have less need to discuss these key issues of this agenda point. I would particularly point out that we have focus, we should focus on the opinions of the Office that are negative with three of these institutions, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, and on the opinion of 6 institutions with a reserve, an opinion expressed with the reserve, because these 9 institutions carry 478 million budget funds or 50.3% of the total Budget of the BiH institutions. So, by the law of large numbers, we have, if we take into focus these 9 institutions, the possibility of making relevant conclusions and views I would ask one question for all of us, and for those who are broaderly involved in this problem – why are we considering the reports of the Audit Office? What is the purpose of these activities? Is this because we have 54 pressures from the Office of Review that constantly bombes us, delivers some reports, very high-quality reports, analytically well-prepared? Is it because we feel pressure from the public or is it because we really need to contribute to the rationalisation of the spending of public funds entrusted to the budget of the BiH institutions? I would like each of these reasons to be present, but if the highest relative value is borne by this court that we must do rationalisation and good governance of the trusted public money for BiH institutions. We see that the growth of funds for BiH institutions is constantly ensured and that this growth will also be achieved in the future, so this motive to see the discussion of the audit office's reports as a means of improving public money management in the budget of the BiH institutions as a key motive. Now the next question is – and how can we do so in the best way? We've had reports so far, we've had views so far and so on. I would say that one qualitative step forward has been achieved in this year, which is that much greater intensity is included in the Commission for Finance and Budget in the debate, in creating recommendations and views on further actions to be taken and including the third player, which are the very institutions that have had the worst of these results in the review by the Audit Office. We're missing an important key actor, I'd say, and that's the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers must accept responsibilities regarding continued activity in improving the operations of BiH institutions and considering, or implementing, the Office's recommendations. There are a lot of normative activities, there are a lot of activities to be regulated at the level of the Council of Ministers, not at the level of institutions to achieve horizontal coordination, and a lot of activities on preventive controls, to establish a system of control within the institutions and the Council of Ministers themselves. Finally, I would like to say that perhaps some of the recommendations of the Office that are facing Parliament, that there is a need for us to really spend them in the best possible way. Let's say a recommendation from this, an impact review on multi-annual capital investments, because the Parliamentary Assembly is regularly overseeing the realisation of capital investments. Well, that's, you'll agree, sizifovski's job. How could we do that if we as Parliament did that? I would rather the Council of Ministers get significantly greater responsibilities, and that Parliament, we try to reduce it to key, essential, strategic issues which it can objectively achieve, or achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12975	Thank you. Since we don't have a quorum, and in view of Article 67, that in that case we're giving an hour's break and since it's lunchtime, so I'm taking a break until 3:00. / My colleagues and fellow MPs, I would ask you to take your seats because we are continuing the debate. The next one for the debate came from a distinguished representative, Danijela Martinović. Here you go. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12977	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to welcome all distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, media representatives. First of all, I'm sorry, so we pooled the debate on audit reports, financial reports, impact reports. I think it would take a lot more time for both of us, but it's a good thing it's here. I think our review of financial, or audit reports is slowly losing its meaning. Here in Parliament, therefore not only this year, but also in previous years, we are regularly criticising the work of a number of institutions, their waste, their disorganization, their non-transparency in the spending of public funds. We invite them and appeal when it comes to political responsibility, we ask them to finally start carrying out the recommendations of the revision. As a member, or former member of the Finance and Budget Commission, I gave them all proposals, conclusions, we punished institutions when it came to their budget, so we cut them 10.20% of the budget on each item, there were public hearings and everything else. It can't be said that progress hasn't been made, there's been some progress, but it's not satisfactory, it's much smaller than expected. They are still not respected, so conclusions and recommendations, not only of the Audit Office, but of this Parliament as well. If we all remember well, I hope we remember, we also had nine, ten recommendations that should have been made by the Council of Ministers and different institutions, the Agency, so to implement, that is, to follow these recommendations. The deadline was the second month of this year. It doesn't look like it. The worst of all that seems to be that we as Parliament are not asking questions here, and in the end, we are the ones who are on the top of the public and who are being called. And the solution is in the council or on the Council of Ministers' side, again here as far as I can tell, unfortunately it is. More than once, it is said that we need to adopt unique rules, unique normatives when it comes to spending. Now, that regulation, it already told us last year that it exists, somewhere in the Council of Ministers, somewhere between the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance. The first version of that Regulation is reportedly drawn up when it comes to uniform rules for spending and uniform norms. So the Ministry of Finance sent it to the Council of Ministers, and then the Council of Ministers returned it, and so it was sent again. So, I'm sorry there's no one from the Council of Ministers to tell us where the classified material is, why there's no such rules and normatives. Whether they are lost in translation, perhaps they should have harmonised these language variants Serbian, Croatian, Bosnian, and therefore we do not have any version of that Regulation, unfortunately yes. And why did I answer that? This is, I've reported more to say a few words about the multi-annual capital investment of the BiH institutions, more than just these audit reports, better than the audit reports themselves, but here I wanted to say that I feel like we're losing every sense of our own, our attempts to fix these reports or the situation in different sectors. First, I would like to congratulate certainly the Office for the Review of Quality Material in the form of several-year capital investments by BiH institutions, but we also see that the audit findings are truly devastating. We have a detailed list of 14 different objections that once again testify to non-transparency, disorganization, non-systemic approach, non-professionalism, intricacies and a series of other negatives. There are also the Office's conclusions and recommendations of the Office, but it would be good, as was the Office's case when and the material related to the management of the rolling stock in BiH institutions, if they had given us an example of good practices that exist in the West and in neighbouring countries. What do these grudges tell us? These objections testify that we do not have a multi-annual plan and a capital investment programme, nor do we have priorities that are related to it. I am sorry that the basis for these programmes and projects when it comes to capital investment was not found in the Council of Ministers' Work Programme of 56 institutions, i.e. we do not have a BiH Development Strategy 2008-2012. Mr. Vrankić, an honorary colleague, has already mentioned. Unfortunately, if this strategy had been adopted, as it was not, we would have indeed had the basis to demand and that... perhaps even ultimately and therefore the processes of realising capital investments. The fact is that there is and that political support is needed for certain projects, however not all projects are politically sensitive, so to speak. The problem is certainly a lack of systemic access in all stages of planning, realization and control. Is it so difficult to make a calendar for planning capital investments, adapting budgets to those programmes, making a request for capital investments and ultimately projecting...? So it's so hard to do what they did, say, students of Banja Luka University? So, the students of Banja Luka University went through ten days of training and received certificates related to effective project management. We use and spend significant financial resources for retraining, retraining, perfecting our staff, and we can't send them to one of those kinds of training. So students have completed ten days of training, and it seems that our staffs per individual institutions are unable to complete the above-mentioned training. What do you need? So we need to have detailed information about individual projects, technical description of projects, do a cos-benefit analysis, dynamics of implemented activities. Is that so much trouble? Here, they warn me on time, unfortunately I say we've limited it to five minutes, I think this area should really be given a little more attention when it comes to audit reports, financial reports and impact audits. This applies not only to us but also to members of the Council of Ministers who unfortunately do not have one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12978	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12979	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I have to do it again, because I often repeat that we are at the same job. There's always something going on around here that someone, if they don't want something, someone doesn't want something, these others are warning us, we're like some kind of cops who should be asking everything like, controlling and controlling, and I don't think that's how it is. However, each of the link authorities has a role to play, and so does our Parliament, and the executive institutions, and the audit is there, which is the most measured to carry out expert evaluations, and we are here profiled in the way that we are, whether we are, with more titles, but because of that we have our commissions, means the parliamentary commissions that should be qualified for each segment, our area being processed, and therefore today our Commission, which has given its opinion, for finance and budget, is considered competent and that it has done a good job. What must be acknowledged, but not to be put to sleep, progress is evident. We're talking today about 31 institutions that we can take off our hat. We have 31 that can and should be improved a little bit, and I don't doubt it won't, we have 9 of these that we might have to deal with a little bit more, but in that sense, I don't think it's the same thing that should be cut off as saber and do 57 execs, because it says, and today I've heard here, it's been wondering -- who's the minister now, who was in the previous session? I don't think it's a problem at all who the minister or who was in the previous meeting is at all, I think I have the right to talk about it because I was a minister in that previous meeting, and here today, perhaps in some way, it's being audited and what I was able to influence or do. And on the other hand, I think that the problem is much wider and much more responsible in the sense that we need to learn to do every job we do. And my job is understood, and here I am going to come from us from Parliament, that we have a job, too. So I pointed out the same thing here, many times with us were on the table certain bill proposals that we have not passed for any reason, and they reflect on the work of these people who execute, meaning the Budget, because it's about carrying out the budget, or... the roles that certain institutions have, in the largest part of the agency, and because of the inability or imperfection or incomparability of documents they are unable to do. We have to say today that we have a large number of acts that have not been made, we have to say that there are a large number of decisions, a large number of regulations and a lot of what should be done to make it defacto. And I think that there is, is the right answer that we have to bring in all the necessary acts, act by act, and then it won't matter at all who the minister is, in which the minister is called and who is responsible. I've had plenty of opportunities with the audit to talk. I think the minister is the least responsible, or so I did in the ministry. If civil servants are empowered and responsible, and if they work for a decade (?) In a certain institution, I think they're more competent in their part of the job than the minister. The minister is a political person or he can say better, a professional-political person. Well, in that sense, if we've established one of those systems, then it certainly won't be, it won't be a problem. However, if the minister usurps all the rights of civil servants, then we come to a problem, we don't respect procedures, and then there is what often becomes a problem after being presented through certain Rural reports that are manifested here and manifested. Here, I think, once again I want to say and to make significant progress, we need to fix what needs to be fixed, we need to do our job, we need to bring in the necessary sublegal acts that are being imposed. I think our Commission, which has given a very high-quality cut, has done a good part of the job and I think we could serve it as an example in all other committees and I think this was a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12980	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12981	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, as I pointed out in the debate on the agenda itself, this course of discussion is also talking about how we really should just be based on the summary opinion delivered in the parliamentary procedure by the Finance and Budget Commission and normally this review of the impact, and I think that we would recognize certain things that are essential in nature, and in the coming period can be of very important benefit. And what is, in my opinion, very important is how and how to monitor the implementation of the recommendations, both the Office and the Commission. And I don't think we've done it in any full capacity before or we haven't had any further hearings to follow the way we've realized the conclusions ourselves, but essentially from the year 58 through the revision, through these summation opinions we have a situation where we're always having the same problems. What Mr. Vrankić was talking about is the progress made by the state institutions, and I am responsible for saying that this is also because the Finance and Budget Commission, whose member I have set up in one such way towards institutions, or seriously according to what we get from the Audit Office in the financial, audited financial report. And here, 60 fact-finding institutions at this point are doing business the way they should in that financial section, except for 30, is the institution that some small steps need to make. And what concerns me more here is, here's because we're kind of sensitive so we don't get to call it, I'm going to say that someone deliberately left a review of the report of the BiH Institutions Audit Office and the Financial Business Audit, probably left it for today, because probably knowing the Law on the Audit of Institutions and Article 16(4) in which this House can verify certain things that affect the final appearance of the Budget, and that's a fundamental problem for me. I wish we had talked about what we talked about before the budget today, that we had reached certain conclusions and that what is in the summary report, which is certain financial penalties for certain institutions, in terms of reducing their budget, would have been much more satisfying today, and I think that we would have removed one very important thing and perhaps prevented these 9 institutions from respecting all that is legal and constitutional obligations in the institutions they are working for in the future. I pointed that out, and when we talked about Budget and here, we're in one situation today to talk about something and we're going to make some conclusions, and we're not going to be able to make any sense of it. I think we in the Parliamentary Assembly here are also guilty of this. The college of any composition and extended and narrow is to blame that we didn't have this earlier today. I know when the Assembly opinion was over, when it was the Commission's meetings in Bijeljina, when it was delivered to the procedure and it was all far before we came to the opportunity to discuss the Budget. And I don't think any of us can be released from that part of it, which is why we won't be able to do everything that is or will be the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly, here's when it comes to Budget. And the other thing that I have said and in the current audit reports, it is, as I have called it, the inactivity of the Council of Ministers according to the recommendations and the Office and the conclusion, not the Commission, but Parliament which draws conclusions or adopts conclusions in relation to what the Commission has proposed. And you, when you take this summary opinion, and when you see it in the conclusions of point 5, are asked by the Council of Ministers to do so by the end of the year, so the Council of Ministers is in charge, so all of us are re-indebted, so the Council of Ministers is asked, so the Council of Ministers is bound. So, on seven or eight examples of conclusions we have a commitment to, here is when the Commission, I say, for the finance and the budget it has proposed, here is what Parliament should adopt, we have given a certain commitment to the Council of Ministers to react, that these nine institutions, which have also done negatively and with opinions with the reserve, with the emphasis on example, would behave differently. So, what am I saying? If we make certain conclusions again today that we will not follow, if the Council of Ministers does not implement them, does not fix this particular one, does not pass certain legal acts and all this, this is what is the subject of the Commission's conclusions on finance and budget, we will again next year at the same time, and last year we discussed it seems to me to be on December 22, today 18, making the same conclusions as we did in '09. And '10. And '08. And in fact, a little bit has been done to, let me say to the legislative procedure or in the obligations that the Council of Ministers needs to have after the analysis of all these audit reports, fix something fundamental. Here, I've wasted my time, thank you. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12982	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12983	In short, to break up with a bribe often mentioned here is that the Commission's proposal to be a sanction for institutions that do not comply with the rules of conduct, financial rules of conduct, or that those who have not worked adequately, should be punished by a reduction in certain items of the budget. I want to tell you it's an illusion. Over the course of the year, budget users make a large number of restructurings. These restructurings will always cover what Parliament has denied them. There's no illusion that it can be sanctioned that way. This is a much more significant work that has been done, because here it is, only the Parliamentary Assembly, as you know, the Assembly that has no budget rebalancing. So Parliament sees the first time it adopts the budget and the next time a report on budget implementation is brought. So don't have the illusion that you can punish anyone, because they'll always settle for themselves in the missing position.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12984	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12985	Here, just for a little while, it's not a replica, so basically I agree with Mrs. Majkić in this part, but here I am at the beginning, so we don't have any control over the realization. We have to get involved in some way. It doesn't make any sense that any state institution, if it's scheduled to lift the team through the redistribution of funds from this, from the budget reserve, would make peace. I think that's the extreme in which we have to react regardless of whether we're in a position or an opposition, it's bullying each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12986	Thank you. Dear Representative Milica Marković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12987	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I've come to say a few words about these audit reports, although listening to all these discussions and at all today's approach from the beginning of this session, the materials that we've received, which are very large and that have a lot of data, many of these data deserve to be commented and said something about it, whether they're positive or negative, simply creates a dilemma about whether we should even have a debate on this on the one hand, and on the other hand we see that such serious documents as auditors, which are very professionally and professionally done, that they're simply relativating and that 60 things are brought into question, on the questionnaire whether they're even worth saying and how much to say. The audit reports on BiH institutions are actually documents that speak about how budget users used the budget we voted here in Parliament and '11, and for '10, and for '09, and for all previous years. And I can't understand and realize that someone thinks that it's so fast and simply to go over it all, and it's very clear that, and apparently, that we haven't voted all and this Budget for 2011 would be questioned, of course, and the functioning of all these institutions and, of course, their overall work. But that's another story. I want to focus on what's here, because it's a very short time, so what's here in front of us and, of course, most specifically to say something about audit reports that are negative, so for institutions that have received negative audit reports. Before that, I would like to highlight and emphasise the very positive work and good work, effective, the Finance Commission, which has made its most visible contribution to the analysis of what has come from the audit reports, and of course made very concrete and useful proposals in the light of the conclusions provided, of course, that these conclusions are implemented and implemented. If nothing's done, it'll just be a dead letter on paper. So it is evident here that according to the audit reports, therefore it should be objective to say that there is a certain positive shift in certain institutions that have been doing, because we also see this from parallel indicators in the audit reports, so that some have progressed and listened to everything they have been told and suggested in some previous audit reports. But the question arises, of course, that if you have a negative and some bad, devastating phenomenon, until that phenomenon is cut off in the root and you completely do not eliminate it, it will always remain a potential ground for some other bad negative actions and phenomena in society, and so on, these procedures that have been carried out in institutions that have received a negative audit report. I want to focus specifically on the Foreign Ministry's report for two reasons. First of all, I was an MP and now I am a member of the Foreign Affairs Commission in this House and I was directly or indirectly focused on the work of that state institution, and on the other hand, as we witnessed in some previous years, that at some point more journalists and media were engaged in the actions of the former foreign minister, his malversions and all that he did in that ministry, and that there was simply nothing we could do or simply was not good at doing so. And of course, is it even necessary to comment on what's here in the report, to say the man used seven cell phones, so let's say, I don't know, he was buying gifts in two goldsmiths worth 25,000 marks, so he used a business card to pay a business lunch of 10,000 marks? The question is asked – what does it all mean now, means what can we do when first neither he is available, nor do we have information about what happens in terms of possible sanctions and to say checking other institutions such as SIPA, such as the Prosecutor's Office, which should deal with such procedures because the audit report itself says that there is a lot of inadequacy in the work of that institution? What the Finance Commission has proposed, our parliamentary commission, means in this respect, I believe that these are good proposals and conclusions, but they are quite, as I would say, soft and not enough, to say, active to be able to produce some other things. Of course, that's where the D.A.'s office is called and it's said to have information and everything else, and if that's going to happen and when it's going to happen, that's the question. And of course, I'm surprised today that here one of the previous debaters says, no, the question is whether the minister has any responsibilities at all, he's like a political figure, I think. Imagine you take a minister's business card and pay for a lunch of 10,000 marks and now it's, it's, it's some state official, his secretary, the chief of staff and it's not the minister's responsibility. Or take an official 61 car going to the beach in Dubrovnik, dressed inappropriately and still make a car crash and an accident on that road, and now it's some civil servant, not the minister's fault. It is well known to all of you that, let's say we see it from the media, that one of the French presidents can process when his term is up and ask questions for certain, Nikola Sarkozij, you've all read it, and you know, so the question is being asked, and the prosecution is running certain proceedings in terms of what he was doing as president of the state. I know that some will say – so what are you saying now that BiH will neither be France nor it has the capacity and strength to do so, but it should look at these examples. We'll never be able to do that, but we can at least do something about it or we can at least be on the trail of such procedures to do it. And of course, here's what I'm going to absorb this, part of the discussion about the audit reports, so I support these conclusions that the Commission has proposed, with that, I think, about 12, 13 conclusions, where it's said -- that the funds are being reduced to institutions that have a negative report, that it's now deplaced and absurd, because we Budget adopted and there's no story about it. And then maybe you need to get those conclusions off that list of conclusions, or give up on them. When it comes to the Impact Review Report on the Multi-annual Capital Investments of BiH institutions, when you read this Report, of course it opens up the issue of the budget again and again what kind of approach we have to budget users, and does everything really need to be served as well as given to every budget institution to be fulfilled and given as much as possible. Here, in particular in this example, therefore, several-year capital investments are clearly seen that certain funds given to certain institutions or not used and used in a meaningfully adequate way or not used, and then produce other types of damage and effects such as paying for subsequent leases, for example three years, so an additional 350 000, if not purchased, is spent, say, the object for which the funds are intended. Or if it's not built,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12988	I'd just like to warn you in time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12989	If you don't build a central state penitentiary where, say, you don't wait for people who need to support the fines, and you're going to unload the entity's prisons. Or if he doesn't do the Directorate for indirect taxation of the construction of border crossings and the rest for which they're assigned. Of course, these are all damages and social, both economic and financial, which will say, so in the end that they are the institutions of this country, some will be distracted by what I'm going to say, but they live on appliances, so that this country as a whole, looking at the functioning of these institutions lives on appliances. Of course, we from the RS won't cut ourselves much if that's the case, but we'll cut ourselves into the situation that the budget funds used by these BiH institutions are also the funds of the RS taxpayers. And that's the damage we're worried about and that's causing us a problem, and we're talking about a large number of directors, agencies and other state institutions, so a large number of state agencies and institutions don't deserve to exist in terms of how it works, and we see it from audit reports and other reports. Then when we say it from the RS, they say you are against the state, you are against the state institutions. And here we see what this leads to and what money is spent on. Thank you. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12990	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12991	Here, Mrs. Marković, apparently mentioned by the foreign minister, was the former Mr. Sven Alakalaj, who she claimed to have been doing some kind of malversion and so on. and claimed that it was not available. Here, I'm informing you that he's available, so there's no problem at all, these audit reports will go to the D.A., and any additional information, if you have anything that the review hasn't found about the staging and about the menu and so on, you can deliver it. So, he's,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12992	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12993	And of course I see that you know that you followed his résumé, and you know what he puts on the beach, what he eats, and so give it, but it is available. Most of all, I called to say that he didn't run anywhere, that he was available. Everything he's done against the law has to match every citizen of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12994	I'm thanking you. And about this, I would have corrected the wrong assumption. I saw a photograph of the minister and he was perfectly dressed for that, for the beach. Dear Representative Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12995	Thank you very much. My replica to my esteemed colleague Marković. Look, you've banked literally my one thesis or statement, that it can't be just the minister's fault. So there are responsible people in the ministry or any agency, but there are procedures for the adoption of acts and there are procedures for spending money. If the minister has abused and paid something with his own card, it is a crime he should answer. But he wonders how to get that card. There's a procedure. For a long time, I've been in the executive office for 20 years, I've never signed a document that wasn't signed before the assistant and the guy who made the document, and that's why he's walking. And I didn't use what some ministers used, ordered me, ordered me not to, but to cooperate with my colleagues, radio, use procedures, and that's why I point out that we're using procedures, we're bringing in acts, and there's going to be less room for that. And anyone who's committed a crime should answer, please. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12996	Thank you. Dear representative Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12997	First, Mr. Vrankić, I don't know why you called when the Treasury and the Treasury received a positive report. First that. Secondly, I have no doubt that you've done all this well, but probably because you've done so well, you're not the finance minister anymore. And to Mr. Belkić, so Mr. Belkić in this story, so the best thing would be, your best defense is to keep quiet and not say anything about that man, because everything you say is against him and then keep it, so it'll be easier for him if he comes into the situation that a man really has to defend himself, don't comment on anything. That's my good intentions.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12998	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u12999	Thank you. I try everything not to replicate, but it looks like I have to... although I've been thinking about whether I'm going to ask my colleague, Milica, who is the minister who paid for 10,000, I'd like you to tell us that too. Otherwise, I understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13000	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13001	I read in that crowd, but...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13002	I would ask that no dialogue be conducted from the bench, everyone will get a chance to address it in a business way. Here you go, Mr. Jagodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13003	Please, when it comes to costs, not to say by all the basics, of the representation, of the use of the vehicle, of the telephone, of the journey, of the seminars, of the purchase of the vehicle, etc., I definitely think there are savings in all these areas. There's no area where it's not possible. However, these institutions should not, to that end, lead to the practical, whether they will spend a certain amount on a national team, on a journey, but what is crucial, what is crucial, should be in that report to support where they are, whether they have an excuse. If that justification does not have to be 10,000 marks, I 64, counting on it at a good lunch of 50 marks, not to advertise which one is a restoration, however, the minister must have been 200 people driving with him, while 10,000 spent. But if he has definitely an excuse for that, let me say hi, if he doesn't, I really think it's a job for the D.A.'s office and we don't discuss this stuff year after year. And that's why I think every job, I know that in these agencies or institutions there's definitely work and if we want to expect a job, they have to travel, they have to eat, they have to drink, so they have to feel normal people, but definitely let them...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13004	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13005	Please, well yes, I don't want to, but let them back up every activity by reporting that the auditors see it, and not only give it to us in some way, we had, we saw it, let's see through the reports if it's justified, if it's not to give in the right place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13006	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13007	So here's a very short one. Mrs. Marković, perhaps you did not understand me, so I defend the right of every man and of course my party colleague, regardless of the situation we are in, the right of every man to a correct, legal and fair approach. You were the first to say that he was a malfeasance, the second to say that he was inaccessible. And I said it wasn't true, he's available, the review report goes to the D.A., let the prosecution appreciate everything that's past the law, there's the court, there's the process. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13008	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13009	Well, do you want to hear it? I don't know how you're gonna behave, come and at the time, when some stories start about your colleagues, will you wash your hands so you don't know them, that you don't know your president? I'm afraid that's not right. Well, here I am, let me ask for correctness.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13010	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić, debate. Here you go. 65
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13011	Thank you, Chairman. Here, as the course of this discussion goes, through the discussion there is a need that some should be present to respond to certain observations, whether, or not to say, some others must, not have to answer. After these reports, so who are they, here I said, and they're positive are some kind of reports, so I'll repeat myself in that presentation, so around the agenda, where the Audit Office gave a positive report, and the institution, i.e. the director of the institution, uses a mobile, means the basis of the 600-mark Regulation. What I said, maybe there's some real need for that, not that I have something against and I don't know here's a name or a last name, but maybe there's no need, but maybe that man, if he were here today to discuss every single report, he would explain it to us what that is. They would explain to us, for sure, some here from the institutions, let's say they spend state resources on training, or courses, whether it's English for their employees. If the Agency allows itself, let's say, for the state service, so that it would not allow itself and the Parliamentary Assembly, which would not allow itself a Directorate for European Integration or another. It seems to me that the State Service Agency has also received a positive report. Uh, so I'll come back not related to the report, in response to the question, means how much they use the official phones, they wrote – that they don't use any official cell phone. And here in the review report it's said 18, in a way that I'm the director who decides how many, how many, how many, how many, who talked, are you, so he's going to decide how much he has the right to confess to his account, or to spend his cell phone for that month. Here's some illogicalness, that's one intransparency in all these state institutions. A little while ago, there were words about the Council of Ministers, that the Council of Ministers should be, well, they are champions in using these things in, meaning, non-transparent and boastful use, so the funds of BiH institutions, and then they see it from them and some others, and right here in this White Hall and those up on the fourth floor, are subject to the public court to say that we are wasteful, that we have the highest wages in the region. That is probably true, but I say these institutions founded by this Parliament, based on this report in different ways of representation, fixed phones, mobile phones, travel costs of collection significantly, significantly more ultimately or ultimately get, than representatives in the BiH Parliament. He says, did anyone answer or not? Here we are talking nicely here today, I can see that we are also tolerant, I saw a moment ago and for the media colleagues Boško Tomić talked about the illogicalities here, so in this report, about the revision of the impact that someone wrote the route of Sarajevo-Mostar-Sarajevo 250 km, which is a good example maybe even a little bit more, maybe 260 and another 348. Well, I'd like it here as a representative or whoever wrote this and if this guy was responsible for this. You chairman know that Sarajevo-Sarajevo-Mostar-Sarajevo-Sarajevo is not 348km, but this one says – they have recorded it, for them it is an honor. And perhaps, here are also a good example of these 250 or not to say this drastically Sarajevo-Mostar-Banja Luka-Sarajevo 2010 km. So you know how much he stole here at this mileage? You know how much he stole? Well, half our salary. Well, we need to use a language like this and say in a dictionary like this that everyone understands us and that's why I'm saying it for all of us, and that's why I need them here. And that's why someone here needs to answer, but you tell me if you know, whether against anyone, in any way, there's been any sanction that he's been denied 10% of his salary, 20% of his salary or anything. Here 66 audits were excellently written by 3,560 vehicles 2,100 and some of these small vehicles, whether they are luxurious for transport or what they call M1, so that it pays more, and I think it pays more, use a private vehicle for official purposes to pay them, so we'll all use them a little bit better, or watch our vehicles. Take the audit reports, take what people pay for a car 3 years old, pay no attention to it, how much services they pay a year, and not to say all vehicles are as big as the helmet, besides basic insurance and helmet insurance. So, if we do one deep analysis, there are huge savings in this budget of BiH institutions, huge and large, so a lot of money is spent in the wind for the benefit of individuals. And you know who's responsible for that? They are responsible for the ruling. Of course he's here, there are some institutions that can see who made the contracts, so they cut the rent, they cut the rent space. There were words about capital investments, no need for institutions, so Parliament, or the Council of Ministers, should make a decision that, I don't know, over the next two years, these four annual rents that are at the level of around 120 million, is that, that they will invest in the premises in all cities and Banja Luka and in Sarajevo and Tuzla and Mostar, means for the purposes of BiH institutions, they will invest that we will not pay more rent for the space in the range from 10 KM to 40, is it, what I said here at the beginning, even if we knew and whose space it is. But it's nice to know that we personally, sitting here in these benches or on the Council of Ministers, benefit from that and that it's in our best interests, and then we're going to have a little bit of a different discussion about it. Here, the Finance Commission and the budget did a good job...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13012	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13013	I will, I will finish, a good job, suggest a few conclusions maybe and a mild conclusion, but the truth is, since budget users have the possibility of internal redistribution of funds, I'm afraid we're not going to do anything but remain this empty story that we'll probably remember in 10, 11 or 12 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13014	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13015	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Since in the name and last name of the speaker, it's the same number as my colleague Jurišić, so 6 letters in name, 7 in last name, but I won't use so much time. Two things are crucial here. We'll apologize today and nothing will happen. We're giving the audit support, and what's the audit doing? He controls the acts they deliver to them. The main problem is, and I ask the founders of the institutions of the agencies, so the Council of Ministers doesn't have any, because I asked them parliamentary questions, who approves one agency to have the right to four assistants? Who approves one agency to have 8 official vehicles and another 67 to 3? I don't make any comparisons or diminish the significance of this agency or that agency. Who approves one agency to borrow space and that they negotiate with each other and pay enormous rents, and the other we don't even know why it's formed? The main problem is, if this Parliament has any power, and I see that there are no six years here, to tell the Council of Ministers, gentlemen the village burns itself, I said last session, here the grandmother burned down the village, comb all the agencies, and find out and say that these auditors aren't guilty, when someone delivers an act to them, it says fine in the Regulation. The regulation defined that the assistant assistant secretary, like we're in the State Department, I don't know what the function is called, pays a mobile phone of 100 marks. Who gave you the right to pay 100 marks? No, no, it says in the rule book, every director says. The basic problem is that, who founded the institutions, why didn't there be strength, the Council of Ministers to these agencies he's in charge of, and we to these other institutions we're supposed to tell about -- stand up a little bit, man, why do you need so much money, where you walk every day, hello, do you ever sit in a job? And what I was looking for, not that I'm turning into a prosecutor and a judge, ever, ever. You gentlemen sit here in the front row and I'll say goodbye to everyone, they'll welcome you to the chairman, because everyone says hello when the session starts. There's no one here. I've always praised the left side, you know how I start the discussion, say hello to the first three empty chairs, second row, four, one filled, here's the first time I've ever thanked the gentleman for sitting there. These are a little full because these are their reports or else they wouldn't be here. So what do we do next? My colleague Salko heard me, just a little letter in contrast and he heard Slavko and what did we do? That is the essence of this country's problem, we will not solve a single question of audit reports, that we have every day and that we are discussing in Serbia, as they are looking at there, it is no Parliament, every year someone rises up in the Rules of Procedure. Lucky for us, we don't have that kind of opportunity, and I'd pick up every minute of my life in the Rules of Procedure... for me to intervene, and for us, the Rules of Procedure is good. So, what am I saying? We did a good thing, it's luck, so the press is gone, so I'm gonna be a little bit more free, none of this is gonna happen, nothing's gonna happen, we apologized. I haven't seen anyone in six years, that our institution in charge of handcuffs has taken someone from Parliament, and if I'm guilty, everyone, there's no protected, so he says, you've spent a free man's money on this people, you've spent money. But there's no one here. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13019	Unfortunately, we have wolves, but the donkeys are gone. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13020	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. This debate, when the audit reports are repeated year after year and right to tell you, feels like we have a feller in our system that needs to be removed, i.e. I think it's time to consider the system as a whole and see what's missing. There's something missing about this whole thing. I'm going to try to say in these few minutes what I think is missing, and I'm going to suggest to people who are doing this job to analyse it, see if it's possible to find a solution here. Watch out here in the Collection Report when it comes to the most frequent infringements found in entities 69 that are controlled, it's listed in 10 of these points, ten related, starting with findings related to the Internal Control System Regulation, found in the missing internal rules, weaknesses in the application of public procurement regulations, etc., up to 10. The review finds this year after year and this repeats itself year after year in BiH. And that's where it goes, the review makes a report, says the positive reports, which are negative, which are with the reserve, are delivered to the prosecution and the same thing happens again next year. I think there's something missing in this system. We have a criminal record, and if the action of one of the responsible persons is a criminal offence, the prosecutor should definitely go into the procedure to check, to go through a criminal procedure. The audit is not an institution and it is not so imaginary to file criminal charges and to file, for crimes, and to file criminal charges for offences, and we cannot give it to an audit and it is contrary to their standards. But is there anyone in the system who does that? So let's think about it, when the review finds a problem she informs Parliament and she is our partner, she fulfils the obligations for us. We're the ones editing the system, obviously something's missing. There used to be a Social Accounting Service, so when it found out, it was such a nature, an injury, a criminal report, a criminal report, and it was prosecuted. Today the thing ends with us getting the report, the prosecutor gets this report. But one thing is when the prosecutor gets the review report, and the other is when the prosecutor gets the criminal charges processed, so the procedure is carried out, the procedure is carried out. I think we're missing two things. As far as crimes are concerned, it is certainly arranged, but I think when it comes to violations that the matter is not at all arranged in BiH. It is proposed, beware, that the rules governing material financial operations should simply be laid down, that they are one broad range of regulations, that they impose infringements for the violation of certain provisions and that they determine the entity to submit those offences, and that the person responsible or the legal person is subject to fines. And I think it could be some kind of supplement. I suggest that the entire system be reassessed in that direction and see if it's a possible way out. I would, therefore, ask especially the people of the audit, these are the people of the long-standing economists who know this problem well, that together with the Ministry of Finance, they analyse this thing. The audit won't be able to go any further if it ends the way it ends in the last few years. We have achieved a certain level of construction of the system, we need to install new mechanisms in order to further seriousise the thing and eliminate the disadvantages it has, which are repeated year after year. In the recommendations of our Commission, I think that the Commission has indeed done, I join those who plead truly, I would say, correctly according to the Commission's report, this should not be praised, this is a correct report and correctly done, says point 10. – The Council of Ministers undertakes to prescribe, and no later than 2 months, the Council of Ministers, by means of its act or by proposing to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH the adoption of laws laying down rules and procedures which, from a formal point of view, prescribe the right to spend budgets for the following purposes, this is merely an example, related to cars, their use, representation, the purchase of office materials, equipment, including... the cost of postal, telephone, internet and other most frequent expenditures. This should also be introduced into other areas that regulate spending. Here you should add – and prescribe penalties for violations for non-compliance with certain provisions. And then, when it's established, when the revision, the audit will do its job, but we'll have to supplement the laws here with the violations, because there are no prescribed violations in the laws. We need to review all the laws and we need to establish an institution that will carry out that kind of control, because it is not a matter of review. So it can't be a work of review. And to file a felony 70 charges and then we'll get a report in which this was established, and whoever made the problem has already been reported for the offence and is responsible for the offence both he and the legal person. I, therefore, pray that I will not write any proposal for a conclusion, I have presented a framework discussion that can be upgraded, one reflection, please the Council of Ministers of BiH, because this is where the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, the Office of Audit, are to be included, to consider, to see what is needed to be incorporated into the BiH system. Crimes, good reports go to the prosecutor, there's a report, he's going to lead a later investigation, investigate, all right, but I think we're missing the prescribed violations. I'm sorry, Chairman, but I'm rarely overdoing it or crossing the time allowed to discuss it, this time I couldn't really finish before. Thank you for tolerateing these almost two minutes of extension of time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13021	Thank you. You didn't spend most of your time, so there's no reason to apologize in particular. Dear Representative Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13022	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I want to say a few things, too, and I'm a member of the Finance and Budget Committee, so I have a few old ones to point out. I'm beginning to say that I'm not against BiH, but BiH is a dysfunctional state after all I could do here in this House to find out for this practical year, BiH is, in my opinion, a dysfunctional state. I won't compliment the auditors, I've praised them on the commission, I'll just say that people did what they were paid to do. And that's the whole point of what I'm about to say a few things about. You could see a lot of things from these materials. We've been on the Commission's review of the mass of things individually and in one way or another, we've talked about everything. Let's say cell phones, that's, we were discussing why someone's driver has... mobile phone marks, why some directors or what I know some representatives of institutions have far more than 600 marks, 800 and what do I know? Why is fuel consumption at the same time as the costs of official travel huge on a small number of employees, why this, why that? We've talked about a lot of things, but the most important question in all this is perseverance. All institutions have a basic cost. So it's the cost of employees' salaries and obligations to do that, it's the lease if the institution is in leased rooms, it's electricity, it's those utility services, and what I know, that's the basic cost. And that basic cost is huge if no one in that institution is doing anything, huge. And that's what's most expensive for this country. It's not expensive or a cell phone, it's not expensive or official travel, or official vehicles if they're justified, if someone did it and earned it, if they contributed to this country with some improvement. So, you don't have to judge, so the cost here is great, only if he's justified he's perfectly fine. We need to save, there's no doubt about it, that's the time. I think we're all going to agree to look at things that can be saved, but if someone is making one of these stamps for this country, two, three, five or more marks, it means you should let a man work and not hold him back in that part, on the one hand. One who does not work, if he receives basic incomes, 71 or who draws out the basic ones for his existence, is the highest cost for this society, meaning he does not justify his most basic. Absolutely, as far as the audit is concerned, this should be supported, people have done what they could. It is further necessary, if at all possible, to process, if there is anything to process, and we have seen from the discussions of the MPs that we should also take these some repressive measures, it is high time, because I really don't think we will be able to endure this way much longer, I think we will question everything, the complete existence of the means of the state and everything else. Therefore, the wind in the back of the auditors should be given to the wind in the back of all those who want to drive out the cleanest thing that is possibly wrong, but I do not need to, I repeat, stop people who contribute and work in this country, mean that they justify their existence and what money they spend on smart things, money to improve life in BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13023	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13024	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't go with this stereotype to start with the review report, but based on the review report, I'd give some initiatives related to these reports. The revision must, of course, do its job, I'd like to give her criticism in the sense that she knows the best of these things, that she's doing what she does and that she's trying to call on some members of the legal regulations that exist, which the audit doesn't do. The second thing that is important, that the audit that monitors the business of state institutions also says – please make it necessary in this area to pass the law and to regulate these issues. It is mainly based on sublegal acts, referring to the Council of Ministers, and you know that there is no effect. So there is no relation, no state relationship between Parliament and the Council of Ministers. The Council of Ministers can do whatever they want in these institutions, because it is not subject to responsibilities. Why can't he be held accountable? So everyone protects their ministers and you don't have a chance to call off a minister. So they feel safe too, and they do as they please, so. And that's what's so-called. the discretionary right to be called right is too great for ministers and other senior civil servants, i.e. executive civil servants. Today in the world, you have no opportunity for anyone to work outside the jurisdiction of the rules and procedures, well the former minister said, so there are rules and procedures everywhere. Nowhere, especially if it's financial resources, can rely on man, but rules and procedures, so it's dominant. It's not dominant for us, but for every clerk to be allowed to make a discretionary decision. Please, you have such resources, so this isn't here, I said last time, in Biafra, so it's not even in Biafra, please, these are too serious things. We say we've evolved, we've made progress. No, we're not. ...crime, things keep repeating, going, and they don't end up like this, if this is the way we're going to work. So, what about state institutions? We usually hear here – the capacity of the state is weak. Well, it is weak, but you know how much the state's capacity is appreciated? It is valued at the success of the adoption of legislation and the application of these rules, not by increasing jurisdiction, which many have misunderstood in this 72 Parliament. So these are state capacities, if it is effective, if it enforces its laws. And apparently, the institutions of this country do not even enforce their laws, let alone follow the modern world and regulate new social relations that appear daily. If you don't follow then... legal vacuum and create a crime scene, it's a normal thing. I'd say something about executive power. So there's no stronger communication of contact for those reasons. However, the executive power in the world is the most monitored, because executive power comes up, it has money, it spends it directly and it is controlled the most. And we have the opposite when writing in the daily press then this Parliament, to me, I must say, is getting tired of it. I've already got people in Banja Luka looking at me across the street, and I didn't steal anything, I didn't take anything out of belonging to me by some rules here. I would therefore also draw this centre's attention and other institutions dealing with more management, executive power. The management is a real locus, there are financial resources, there are supervisory authorities, it's controlled. So that's the place that needs to be controlled in particular. And what can I say in the end? I suggest that, with the executive authorities, they pass a law on the rights and duties of ministers and other executive officers. So, without the law, let's not rely on regulations. We can tell some Council of Ministers to lay down the rules, leave the Council of Ministers to the Minister, I was the minister, I know how it goes, let the minister go, he gets the rule, as he brings the Council of Ministers to confirm. Therefore, it is not opportune if we are to prevent these negative phenomena from occurring. So, I suggest that it be passed by an urgent procedure of the law on the rights and duties of ministers and other management officers. Why? This is, uh, it's too serious here that we talked about today. If we've evolved in anything, then we're conscious of beating empty straw, as someone says. So it came to an end, we hit the bottom. I don't think they'll argue like this next year. We'll be looking for some concrete things, specific acts. So it has to be done, we live in other times than they were in the past.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13025	Time, I'd like to ask an esteemed representative to take care of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13026	I'm sorry, just two more sentences. How long will the people suffer? We have to ask ourselves a question, and that's a serious question. We can face very difficult and inconceivable consequences. These things can't be tolerated any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13027	Thank you. Dear Representative Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13028	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Carefully listening to all these dialogues in the debate so far, this is kind of all rainy for me, and this all seems to me like some kind of Bosnian-Herzegovic political debate just as many as 73 angles. In the respected late Akir Kurosava there were only three corners, and here we are always much more in this country. I've discussed all of this a lot, thought and had to make joint decisions on the Administrative Commission three times already. So, when our Administrative Commission was formed, we were already found by the 2010 audit report, so it came in 2011, so here it is now 2012. So all rains and believe listening to all of you here seem to be repeating discussions, of course from a different angle because of different interests. On that commission we were the first to meet as a newly-formed commission, so it's usually when a new job begins, we're losing it slowly now, we've decided to meet with the people who led the review team and to clarify the many things that have interest us in all of this. We held one, I'd say, ad hoc meeting, but it wasn't both presidents, so we decided to hold it in a little bit with the leaders, so the president of the review team and our chairman of our Administrative Commission and his associates. But then the twisting started, and believe me, that meeting was never held, and we gave it up, and we never asked for it again. Among other things, since I have very little time, 5 minutes is a very short time, this is a really large material, I can think that it's much easier for you to read within yourself, so maybe you can read it a hundred times faster than for me who has to read some paragraphs and parts out loud to him, but well, that's my problem. Let me tell you, one thing that gets away from me from the first report and that hurts me in what you often miss, why a suffix is so often used without reason. In many parts of this report you will find a paragraph where it says – this is, meaning a report or opinion with a delay, one expression, or with a reserve, another, ah that our vocabulary is not a neck but a neck, although perhaps the linguists would disagree with me. What is it, and why do they keep repeating it in all the reports – with a reserve? I know what the reserve is, and you probably know what that word means, something that's being saved for next time, for another occasion, for something to come. Well, for three years now, in three reports, they've kept that reserve to themselves. What did they find, and they keep it as a spare, so they don't put it in these reports or keep it in a drawer as needed? Maybe, I have a right to doubt it. But I would really like someone to explain to me, why does it keep repeating – with the reserve? What kind of backup? It's theirs to file the report, be positive is negative, so however they have to take it. What kind of backup, what's the reserve for? Are they afraid, ashamed, what? I'd really like to talk about it. But why have we in the Administrative Commission hurt some parts of the institutions that we are subject to, and this Parliament. I'm going to give you a rough, raw and raw example of how we came by it. We take into account our institutions that make up their own plan and work programme every calendar year, for this plan and the work programme, as normal and all institutions, also submit a financial plan and programme. Bubbam, what our children would say, is that such a state institution has a plan and a work programme for next year, and for its execution, it takes a budget of 10 million marks, they regularly file all documents. The budget sets out 10 million marks, the end of the calendar year comes to an end. The review committee comes and what does it find? That only 5 to 10% of the institution's full plan and work programme, but 10 million disappeared, ate the cat, you know. Find in this new one, and believe me, you'll find at least one example similar, this is just a rough copy, but believe me, you'll find a lot of such reports. And imagine usually, at the end of a report like that, again, the famous one, writes with the reserve. It's their opinion of everything with the reserve. Believe me, I'm still thinking about what a backup is. 74 And apropo to finish, Mr. Chairman, why I used the word of the Bosnian Herzemoniade, there are never three of us as we think. You have a special view of our Parliament, a special view of one commission, another commission, a third commission, and then when this debate is at stake, you see that you have a special view of every political party, so I am getting involved in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13029	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13030	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, well, considering that we have united the debate on all the points concerning the review report, I will try to give a few general assessments on this subject and say my thinking and some of the things that have been presented in the debate, but also on what is reality and what is in these reports. First of all, even though I always think it's this small of a surplus, but it's not a surplus, I want to welcome patient and persistent and very competent and professional work of our Audit Office, which really, by carrying out its legally established function, ensures year after year, I will say, improving the state of affairs in the management of public funds. I also want to thank the Commission as a member of the Committee on Finance and Budget, here I am commending this Committee, seeing that you are through the opinions of this Committee which have indeed dealt with this issue several times, not in the way that many of your colleagues and colleagues are engaged, but in the way that the role of the institution for the revision and the very concept of audit is really prescribed by law. Here we often hear the concepts of thieves, crime, robbery, etc., I don't know where that need comes from. Where do we really find such a need to proclaim everything to thieves, from porters, just because they work in BiH institutions to ministers, to members of the Presidency, to parliamentarians, etc., all naked thieves. I don't agree with that. I'm not going to say there's no public means available that are subject to criticism, so there's a sure thing, but it's not a crime. It's not a crime if the minister has the right to travel expenses, it's the right to be established by law. And if he charges for a year, I don't know what, 50 grand travel expenses, it's not a crime. It may be the irrational spending of public funds and perhaps it is something called and which should be part of political responsibility to the public, but we cannot say that it is a crime. So, but we're so relieved, I respect the right of an advocate to be free, so without burden, they take their views and give their grades, at the end of the day, because there's parliamentary immunity, we can freely say whatever we want, but we need to have little responsibility for what we're saying and for those we're giving these assessments to. I wish there were parallel indicators. Because watch out, we observe here separately, and this is our jurisdiction, I agree, we observe the availability of public funds at BiH level, i.e. the availability of public funds by BiH institutions. But we live in one country, we're not us, I don't know, division and we're not separate states and entities. Often we forget the fact that these public funds are available in municipalities, cantons in the Federation, in entities. 75 If memory serves me well in 2006, at the end of the term of office as president of the Federation, the budget of the BiH institutions and the Federation budget was 1:1, 1:1, the same. Now the Federation's budget is twice as large as the BiH Institutions' Budget by being in a certain sense and being reduced than it was a few years ago. So what, and the number of institutions financed from that budget has increased. And now we're saying it's some kind of enormous waste. I'm not going to say that there's a non-domestic, again, so that someone doesn't get me wrong, there's more room for rationalization, for more proper availability, but let's not ignore the fact that, so we have more institutions, we have more staff and we have a smaller budget of these institutions than we had a few years ago. I mean, on the other hand, to all those who say -- this is no use, we talk all the time, we make some conclusions about these audits, and so on. There is nothing going on, those who think that the Office for Auditing is an institution that needs to replace the inefficient Prosecutor's Office of BiH are then in a terrible error. Then they need to put that criticism where it belongs. I asked the question today about the subject, and I'll talk about it when there's a point about it. It is not the Office for Auditing the institution, neither are we, this Parliament is not the institution. And let's not pretend to be any prosecutors, no investigators, no, I don't know, Eliot Nesove, we're agents. And what one number of colleagues said, I respect that, but there is a good part of it in the opinion of the Committee. The role of Parliament, the role of our MPs is to say – yes, there is no law, I think Mr Kunić said, which would define the rights and other elected officials, officials, ministers and so on. We are talking about examples of how someone used the means to learn English. And we, by the Labour Act or the Law of Salaries, provided for that right. Let's get him off then, I mean let's not do it now, we predicted it. It does not matter whether this assembly of Parliament or others is, but we have provided for this right and what is the problem now that someone is using that right. So, we have to bring in acts that we're going to precisely prescribe restrictions and I say again, there's a proposal, and no one's stopping everyone who's anxious to wait for the Council of Ministers to do it,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13031	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13032	Each of us has the right to submit a legal proposal, including on savings, around reductions, etc., around all restrictions. Thank you. I apologize for the extension.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13033	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13034	Well, I thought it was too much to talk about in such a short time, but since none of the colleagues in any segment have commented on these systemic measures that the Commission 76 has adopted, and given that we are going to declare them, I think it is necessary to say a few words about them. First, a system measure that says that, suggested by the revision, this is not a fruit of the Commission for Finance and Budget but has literally been prescribed, the first system measure is the timely adoption of the Budget of the BiH institutions under the law. Well, I don't know what year she hasn't been here that we haven't fought over, and I don't see a single mechanism for us to succeed, whether she'll be on the benches of the MPs in time. It is known that the motion is the Presidency, and we also know that the Presidency cannot do so unless it has received a proposal from the Ministry of Finance and a chain round is complete. So we can't in any way influence the timely adoption of the Budget. I remind you that we have denied a single home the right to give amendments because it is too late and until the House of Representatives finishes its work, so that there will be no harmonisation, one whole home has no right to amendments. So I think this is quite a questionable measure that I don't see how we could influence it. Another measure says - monitoring the efficiency of the internal control system through strengthening public responsibility. I saw Croatia solve an acute problem in that part, and I saw that in 2010, they passed the Fiscal Responsibility Act. What does it mean to strengthen public responsibility? It's a general term that takes another 10 years to work to strengthen this public responsibility. But strengthening fiscal responsibility knows exactly what that means. And Croatia has defined this as three items – the restriction of state spending (we are at this stage now), the other thing is stronger responsibility for the legal purpose and purpose use of the budget and the expenditure thing – stronger fiscal responsibility and supervision through the control and control system. And they said it all. That law halved their problems until then. And our review says - strengthening public responsibility. And now you tell me how to fit in and how to respect and how to follow that item whether it can happen or not. Furthermore, about these things, he says -- a report on the results achieved and planned results, impacts, and not only on the planned funds, but on the results and objectives of the programme budgeting. Well, that's never been the way it was for us. All institutions are waiting for how much money they'll get. Yeah, we got that much, we're right... The finance ministries, according to which they deployed according to the budget items. So also the third thing the revision suggests, which is impossible to implement. Fourth thing - amending the Law on Public Procurement that would contribute to reducing irregularities and illegality. We have less than 49% of those institutions that make mistakes in the public procurement sector, but say any law will make it less illegal, that is illusory. So, the new law will fix some things, but now we have 50% of the institutions that are doing just fine and the Public Procurement Act is not an obstacle to ending it. So what is this of yours? To suggest that the law in some segments changes, but that the law is passed, a new one where there is a reduction of irregularities and illegality. Irregularities, the perfect law, if he's inclined to. But watch out for the following – improve the work of authorities that have an impact on the employment process of the Agency for State Service. What mechanism does Parliament have to influence the work of the State Service Agency? We said the State Service Act was wrong and we said we'd make it new. And now, what other mechanism does Parliament have on the subject? Not one. The following remarks, please, are particularly, the adoption of quality accounting policies at the level of BiH institutions, especially given the fact that budget users cannot make their accounting policies since they operate in the Treasury business system. So 77 what does that mean? Who does this sentence make clear to? Who did not bring quality accounting policies and what accounting policies? If they had said, "People, it's no good for you, and you do it, so it's clear to us, but a flat-rate one, it's no good for accounting policies, see what you're going to do with it. It's like we're an accounting bureau, so we recognize what that's supposed to do. Or these other two. The adoption of the Law on Payments and Compensations in institutions separate from the level of executive, legislative and judicial authority. Well, we talked about it five years ago and this House and, therefore, the Parliamentary Assembly didn't have the strength to bring it up. Now in this year when the crisis on all sides bites us and we have locked up, consumption from all sides, the revision remembered that we should separate. You're too late. You stayed about five years earlier. And finally, this is the highlight of the last, system-based solution to the issue of property availability at BiH level, which is one of the segments of the general problem of state property. Now, if you had involved in all this state property, you would have come to the very top. So what is the biggest political problem in this country, and who knows when it will be solved, you include as a recommendation for resolving audit reports. So it's really amazing, and I don't think we're going to be able to adopt most of these conclusions because they're bad recommendations.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13035	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić, excuse me, distinguished representative Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13036	I'm sorry... because I've been thinking about whether it makes sense to replicate. Yes, the Commission or the Committee on Finance and Budget in these affairs is very closely working with the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, and we highlight this as an example of good cooperation, mutual respect, respect and search for the best possible solutions to joint work. And don't be surprised that we accepted 99% of the review office's recommendations, because we think they're doing well. What we're thinking right now, every honor everyone has is entitled to, that something real or unrealistic, that's another question, that's another question. But let me, I think we can make fun of everything, I won't go by that logic, but what the Commission did and what it did in common with the review, together, here I repeat this deliberately, agreed as recommendations to this House to support it as one way, one way to fix the situation at the disposal of public funds. It's not gonna be perfect again. So we're not the illusionists that we think it'll be perfect, but we believe that the execution of one piece at least these recommendations will help make the situation in this area better than it is today.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13037	Thank you. Replica, distinguished representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13038	So, I haven't said a single word about the Commission, not a word. I just said that we as MPs must have a different view of things than the Office of Audit. And 78 argued why we can't fill this out. The Commission, and then Parliament, will lose its dignity because these recommendations cannot be achieved. Well, who's been talking about how we're gonna make it to the budget within the legal deadlines since we've been doing it? How are we going to pass the Payments Act, so we couldn't put us in the law until recently because we had, so please don't put things in place that this Parliament can't meet. That's why, when we're not tomorrow, we'll do this as a commission to follow these conclusions. Will it make you uncomfortable when next year we look and see that none of these conclusions are fulfilled? So what I'm talking about is that the conclusions must contain a clear standard that can be followed. If that's all I'm telling you, then we can make an unlimited number.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13039	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13040	Look out, colleague Majkić, I think I'm inviting you all to be together, to say whether, with your discussions, it's aimed at helping if it needs to be completed. Be careful, uh, what other people will write as a recommendation except to ask for time to bring in the budget, in good time. You say it's a mental noun, we can't do it here. That means they don't have to write it. It's not them, it's us. They say that, if there's a budget in time, if it's brought in, then things are completely different. And some of them wrote it. Don't criticize them, let's criticise ourselves that there's no Budget. What is the problem here if people say, systemically resolving the issue of possessions at BiH level, which is one of the segments of the general problem of state property. What did people here prejudge? Nothing. The property abandoned, alaibe's straw, no one's taking care of it. People say take a little care of that. So why don't they write it? Why, what did they prejudge here? But wait, so they tell us, we're Parliament, we have a mechanism. So who doesn't have a mechanism? Who doesn't have a mechanism? So we run state property, we're that segment. And I'm asking you to be, to give discussions in the direction of solving the problem. I said a little while ago, here I found one point in these reports here, in this Commission report on recommendations, here's page 14, it commits the Council of Ministers to do that and so I said, here you go, this is good, add those violations, add other laws in other areas, let's do that. Let's help the people, that's how we make the system. And then we won't be in a position to have this kind of discussion year after year. To speak positively, and not this one, there's no budget, we can't bring it, you don't write a recommendation. You don't say.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13041	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13042	Mr. Chairman. 79 After all these discussions, it is difficult to say something new, but it is positive that there were polemics here in terms of how to improve this work of institutions and how to end up being more functional institutions and having some progress in their work every year. At the beginning of this session, I was against this agenda because of the methods of doing these points, so this point as well. And now I think that this session was supposed to be full of both these directors and ministers on this left, at the end of the day it is one of the Commission's conclusions, on page 13, you have in conclusion the 4th said – the Finance and Budget Committee asks the House of Representatives to hold a thematic session to discuss the audit reports on the financial operations of BiH institutions, with the mandatory presence of all members of the Council of Ministers, etc. The audit office, etc. And then when I discussed the agenda, I forgot to draw attention to the enlarged college, who probably didn't have these conclusions, probably if I had read it, they would have appreciated it, and we would now have a session that would be on the trail of the Finance Commission's conclusions, which here today all praises and praises all the conclusions with certain and criticism, but I see that you are positively referring to these conclusions. I also have to commend here the Office for Auditing, who has done his job, made remarks, the truth, they in most parts and repeat, suggested certain things. And what I want to say, and I think it's crucial, is the role of the Council of Ministers in all of this. So we're sitting today and the Council of Ministers is in session. I would ask indeed the College, that when Parliament is sitting, the Council of Ministers should take another day. This is the legislative body of BiH, and I really want to see these ministers, that they hear us, and not that we, our colleagues, are plowing amongst ourselves, regardless of which party we are from. And why I want to say the role of the Council of Ministers. I had a few questions in my work so far, according to the Council of Ministers, which concerns both these audit reports and certain criteria, so I asked the Council of Ministers to do certain criteria, as regards the number of employees in BiH institutions and beyond. And imagine, I remember, I was just commenting on that answer, I don't have it, it says – there's no standard in the world. Isn't it impossible to make for these institutions, you can have so many employees, you have so many resources, isn't it impossible for the Council of Ministers to give the framework plan and programme and framework criteria, that the chairman of the Council of Ministers drives the best car in this country? But don't brother in the institutions of 67-70 institutions, it's 18.5 million, it's just spent on maintaining a rolling stock and getting new vehicles. And to my question, I still haven't got an answer – how much do they spend on entities? Because I'm asking for economic justification, to launch an initiative, to see justification, to have a domestic industry. I think the domestic industry can only live on state institutions, so municipalities, cantons, entities and everything else. But I'm going back to this topic that we're on. So it's been asked by the Council of Ministers to do criteria for the number of employees. I can't understand that the Council of Ministers can't prescribe the number of mobile phones for institutions. The competence of individual institutions is known. I can't understand that we keep repeating the law to public procurement. That's why I asked who the director was today, so they told me she was the director. I don't know. I can't figure out that all these conclusions we've made, he says, eh, we're at a minus now, we can't spend anything because we've brought Budget. And we warned here from the opposition to Budget, we had 24 hours to bring the Budget. I don't think there's any faster budgets in Europe, that both the Upper House and the Lower House bring the budget in one day. Normally, we get into this IMF situation, justification and everything else. And the reasons why they came here lie in the Council of Ministers. 80 And, gentlemen, dear, what is our job as an MP? So they call us for trouble, they call us for wages, they call us for journals if we go abroad. And what are these gentlemen doing? I want us to have a functional state, it is functional, but some money in a blurry state. Some of them hunt in the blurry in these institutions. And that is why I really loved them and that they are here and what bothers me most, which is why this Parliament's call will only be two audit reports from this Council of Ministers to discuss. So some new guy's going to argue, and some new guy's going to discuss those two other audit reports. And I think that, like the College and the competent committees and us as Parliament, we should consider all reports coming into our mandate, except for the last one, when the elections are held. And here, I want to say once again that these, as a member of the Commission, to say that these conclusions are really carefully done, that we have often had different opinions on the Commission, that we have even brushed and a dictionary of these conclusions, and I think that the Commission, regardless of the composition and from which we are political parties, is working for an example. And it would be very good to accept these conclusions, and ultimately those penalties, so we also have budget rebalances. We can do all this by the end of the year, if we want to. I think it's time we started punishing those institutions that don't work well. I am also, for harsh measures, to take criminal action for those, if certain things are found to have been really done outside the law. And I think that, as Parliament, we must ask the Council of Ministers more vigorously, to engage in this problem, and then we as Parliament. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13043	Thank you. Since there is no one to announce me, then I will announce myself for a brief discussion. My colleagues and colleagues, I thank you, therefore, for the opportunity given to me. Here we are, on several occasions, heard that we have been discussing audit reports here in Parliament for years without changing anything. I wouldn't agree with that. In fact, you remember well that we had audit reports when the audit, I would say, did not dare say negative opinions. So in their formulations, they had similar acrobatics, so to speak with the reserve, with additions, which would essentially deserve the qualification of negative opinion. E precisely thanks to the debates in this House and the revision is encouraged, that we have three negative opinions here today. So it helped this debate in Parliament and the audit and also helped us, and it helped the institutions to which the audit relates. We have a practically 61 positive opinion today. So that's progress compared to all the years so far. So I think this debate makes sense, as does this one today, which makes sense. And, no matter how much time we've spent in the various poles around the agenda, we've actually come to what most MPs have been looking for. We are discussing today and we will limit ourselves to the conclusions about Parliament, what it is in Parliament's domain. So Parliament's domain is not to bring in, or even these ministers who are not here today, to bring them here to this hall because they are all invited. On the other hand, negative reports, and if there are elements in them for investigation and prosecution, they are also in disposition before today's session, the relevant agencies and the prosecutions, and they and without us are obliged to act under their jurisdiction. The task of this House is to pass laws. The task of this Parliament is of course also to discuss implementation, especially when it comes to institutions that are 81 one way or another, from the Council of Ministers to all these agencies. And I think here's what we've been practicing through this debate today. What I would also like to say, because I was one time and in the role of this one, as often said here on the left, and today I am again in the role of one of the leaders of the institution who got an opinion with the reserve, that this, let me say what are the responsibilities of the heads of these institutions. That's what my colleague Vrankić elaborated at one point. In fact, we have today as Parliament, as a Parliamentary Assembly, an opinion with a reserve. However, my competences, as here is the Chairman of the House, are in that segment, in that context, absolutely nothing. So, we don't sign anything, we don't run any purchases, we don't run any processes, and in the end, here we are, according to these recommendations of the Commission, we should bear sanctions against this humble team, which is certainly far below my fellow ministers, which are not here today. And that's why I'm here right now and I want to say a few words about this report to the Commission. Basically, this whole work today, this whole debate will sublime itself in the Committee's conclusions, which we will support hopefully in most and most of the points. And in this, of course, it is particularly important, to focus on the attachments of 2nd, 3rd and 4th, I read at the beginning of the debate what is contained in them. However, the role of this Parliament will, as I say, be the most valued if the conclusions of 5, 7 and 8 are consistently implemented. I think that's the point. The bottom line is that the Office for Audits and our Committee and in the periods between the review of the report, so they are annual, dealing with these institutions that had negative opinions. The bottom line is that competent institutions undertake to carry out appropriate education for people, so that they can apply the laws. Because I don't believe that even these institutions that were negatively rated did it, so to speak, with intent. Maybe that's the result of ignorance and ignorance. So I think that, and of course what, where I can't agree with these conclusions, those are points 12 and 13, as I recall, concerning sanctions against these ministries, which have a negative opinion. I agree, I think Mr. Fazlić has now said, when the 2012 reports come, so with the possible rebalancing of the budget, that we punish them, so these people who are now these institutions, but sanction institutions for what they did before, regardless of what the leader's responsibility is not always absolute, because it is not absolute control, ministers who were headed by these institutions, surely bear the greatest responsibility. So in that part, I wouldn't be able to support those conclusions, but the rest, in any case, should be supported by me, because at the end of the day it sublimes this debate and the suggestions that were heard here in our House. And what we should also do, so there are completely illogical things. Here's one thing I'll say. There's a half-year I, as one of the members of the College, am trying to get through our Joint Services to, I say, register the mobile phone I'm using and where I have the right to a limited cost, pay for the use of the Internet from a gigabyte, which would increase the price, therefore, of these subscriptions, by about 10 or 20 marks. He can't. He won't let it say, the Public Procurement and Audit Act. And then what do I have left? Then when I'm at the range of the 3G network, I turn on the 3G network if I'm not on the wireless here and I'm spending, I don't know how much, but I'm sure a lot more than I'd spend my phone, that I have the ability to pay with a normal subscription so talks and text messages and let's say half or one gigabyte costs the Internet. So there's so much illogicalness that we have to remove. So that is what the task is, therefore, this Parliament and ultimately the Council of Ministers, in their institutions. And that's it, thank you. 82 Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13044	The Honorable Chairman, so excuse me, I have no one to replicate, but you. I'm now asking - what's the difference and who's going to deal with the consequences of these negative reports and these positive ones? What's the difference, and what's our role? I got one-third of the answer, as if I was an auditor and asked similar questions and made a little comparison, everything differs. Everything is completely different, nothing is true. It's either not this or mine that got me answers. Now I ask the question – what are we going to get, here by 17:05 she has that song 5 and 5, what have we been discussing all day today and what are the consequences for those who did this negatively, what have these negative opinions and what have they got positive for? Does that make a difference? There isn't. So whatever you do, I say we lost our day today, and we didn't do anything, we apologized like that. I put an MP, another messenger to me and put an end to it. There's no such thing as what I said. The minister's advice to streamline, so to say, one agency can have one director and one official car. He can have five employees, not 25, and still ask to be completed by 18, because he employs every day these in joint institutions. That's the essence of this country, where we don't see the end of it. I ask the question – will you be alive thank Bog, will we be able to raise these funds for Budget, finance this all that we have predicted? I'm telling you today, we won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13045	Thank you. In this way we conclude the debate on points until 75th and move on to point 76th, [[Common discussion]] Okay, I didn't have any applications, and here's this one.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13047	I welcome the chairman, delegates, representatives of the Council of Ministers and others present. First of all, I would like to thank all the debaters who have taken active part in these points of the audit reports, and I would particularly like to thank the Commission for the financing and the budget, who have really put a lot of effort, effort and knowledge into making very important and significant conclusions. The audit is not a purpose for itself, but a necessary part of the regulatory system, whose aim is to detect the deviations from adopted standards and infringements of the principles of legality, the management of finance, in order to enable the taking of corrective measures in certain cases, and the responsible ones to accept responsibility, to compensate for damages and to take steps to prevent or at least make it difficult to prevent infringements. And in accordance with the audit standards, focus 83 of our activity should certainly be on public responsibility. However, everything we wrote, we made significant recommendations, and the Commission, year by year, in some ways, has turned our recommendations into conclusions and they have been adopted. However, the implementation of these conclusions was not by those in charge. In fact, we should really wonder where the weakest link here is in all of this? If, I'd just look back at a few of the recommendations, when we talk about regulation, since that's a really long time, these discussions when it comes to the use of official cars, phone representation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The pay law, it's clearly prescribed, who needs to pass. And indeed, many of these recommendations are repeated year after year. When we talk about restructuring, the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions, he said it could also be punished by reducing the budget, but also by other corrective measures. What might need to be considered, which are some other measures, in a way to sanction or bring into line those who have the most failures, where the audit has established. If the institutions, if there is a Employment Act and a State Service Act for 2010, if we had 200 employees under the Treaty of Action and in the systematicised places, this year slightly less, wouldn't we really have some things to regulate, and at the same time we have a systematization with many institutions that are not filled in. When we talk about accounting policies, we have, on many occasions, pointed out our reports so far. It is necessary to adopt accounting standards for the public sector. Only at the state level they don't exist, the entities have regulated it. Institutions cannot apply accounting standards that have hundreds and hundreds of pages. We only have the Accounting Regulation and it would really be necessary to round up in some way, as someone pointed out here. The real thing is to create an adequate system that will work, not depend on individuals. And what we are, we are in some way and in each of your reports you have seen, we follow the implementation of recommendations, but a large number of these recommendations, for example. 20-30% is not realised, or, for these very reasons, there are no such unique rules, so it's very difficult for the institutions. Then we have one, so to speak, the charm, where when it comes to using the phone, every institution brings as much as it wants, it's simply not limited to anything, except by budget. So is the use of the car. We, too, have pointed out through this review report on impact audits, the use of official cars, that it would be necessary to prescribe. And I don't think it's a problem to force the executive authority on me, if every year a report on the work of the Council of Ministers is adopted, and then perhaps through that it could be forced to bring about really these systemic measures that would make it easier for everyone. I wouldn't really, so you got what it says, all the reports, the fact that in some way this time we had, especially that you should at least specifically single out these audit reports of impact review, but here they are so united, so they're given recommendations. I thank the Commission once again, given that they have made really good conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13048	I would like to thank the representative of the Audit Office. And I'm finalising the debate on points, to point 75, including point 75. 84 opening point 76, Ad. 76. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives The proposal for a law was submitted on 07.12.2012, with a request for a preliminary examination. Before I open the debate, I'd like to give a brief piece of information just as my introduction to the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13050	The word has the chairman of the House of Representatives, Dr Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13051	During the meeting of this House, so after this agenda was established, at the request of the Deputy Minister of Finance we met in the office and there was a suggestion, a request which, I was asked to pass on to this high House, to turn the debate on this point from haste to a shortened procedure. The explanation is that the Ministry of Finance and the Council of Ministers, received suggestions from the IMF and the European Commission, for certain changes. True, I've been told not to be cruel and essential, but to give the Council of Ministers a chance to react amendmentally. So I'm here to brief you on this. And here, if the Deputy Minister needs to explain this in more detail, this speaker is available. Thank you very much. So, I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13052	I understand that someone from the Ministry will, okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13053	No, no, I'm just saying if they have needs. But here I am, on occasion, interpreting what was the content of the conversation today.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13054	And if I understand you correctly, you're now saying that this is not a request for... [[Common discussion]] You see, in the shortest few sentences about this procedure, but I'll take the opportunity to warn you of just one thing. So it wasn't acceptable for an emergency procedure absolutely. For the simple reason, one thing is absolutely unclear to me, I don't know what she's caused. It was only meant to go to what the International Monetary Fund asked for, 85 so service-related procedures, etc. Even though I've made a reservation about it. Let everyone do their job and everything will be fine. We now have a situation here to propose the adoption of the Budget by March 31st. And I'd like to be explained, is this some new situation now, is that a recommendation or do you tie it to this temporary financing up to one-third? When you say one-third of the budget, do you tie it to this that Budget is adopted by March 31st, so that only temporary funding is possible, not later? I can't understand it at all, because it's terrible, it's unconstitutional. The constitution says the budget is adopted every year, the BiH Constitution. So, I'm really warning you, okay, shortened procedure, I'm here to support, so let's not just make this right. This isn't right. I can't believe you've given up on March 31st, compared to the terms we've begun to meet so far, Mrs. Majkić. You say - we'll never do this, this, that. Here's the fill. Public people also boasted on television, everywhere, that for the first time in the history of the entity's budget, state and so on. adopted before the end of the financial year. Well, that's right, so we adopted 2009 for 2010, but that's forgotten, that's erased. It's being erased. Okay, I'm done. So, it's acceptable for me to cut the procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13056	I'm thanking you. I believe that I have made it clear, made it clear that the Council of Ministers' request that this law be considered in a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. And here I am as president of the House and as a representative of the party supporting this Council of Ministers, I recommend it to the House, here. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13057	So you can't define it, but you can propose. And I understood to you that the motionary with you, the representative, was coming and asking you to say that this is the position of the promoter, to go into a shortened procedure, and that the word, instead of an emergency, was shortened and that it was the position of the promoter. If that's the case, then the point is clear. We'll make a decision. So it's not 127 anymore, it's 126. Here. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13058	Thank you. There are no more applicants to discuss. I'd like to ask the Deputy Minister of Finance if he has any needs to confirm this or if he agrees with what I said. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need. Thank you. So that's how we concluded the debate on point 76. 86 We move to point 77. Ad. 77. Request by representatives Dušanka Majkić, Beriz Belkić and Niko Lozančić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption under the shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13061	Well, I believe that everything is clear, given that this 2009 Law and that the Commission has made a unanimous decision to support this Bill proposal and that from that day on, 17.10.2012 until a few days ago, it was practically used to comply with the EU's Office of Representatives in BiH, whose letter you all received, members of this Commission. I think that without this law being passed, we have no basis for the work of this Commission, so I suggest that this decision be made as requested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13062	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13063	My colleagues and fellow MPs, I have one question for the promoter. In fact, it's good, I've read this amendment and the addition of the law, there are good proposals there that would actually complete this legal solution. However, I only have one dilemma, which is whether or not this parliamentary commission should oversee the Dandus work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency? Because then that agency, I think, stops the need for its existence, if any parliamentary majority is going to be a bit mixed in the Commission now, given that Mr Tihić is there. So I ask you to explain to me, do you really have the ambition to oversee the work of this agency, because it will greatly define my commitment, should I support this shortened procedure, because I should certainly give the opportunity to make this more detailed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13064	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13065	Well, I don't think it's correct this, your insistence, so this is a decision on procedure. We're looking for a short procedure that doesn't exclude you from asking all of this. When the time comes, you can ask all these questions. I'm asking you to make a statement about the procedure as well. Nothing else. And we're not going to explain it now, but when we get to the first reading, then we'll talk about the principles.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13066	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13067	I'm sorry. I expected at least from the College of this House to protect me from these attacks. Whether something is correct or not correct, you keep it to yourself. But here as a representative, I have the right to express my opinion, my position, and to seek answers to certain questions. Whether you like it, Mr. Belkić, or not, that's your problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13068	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13069	So, colleague Mehmedović, I want to say that Parliament has made a decision to form a body that will exercise control, an independent body. It's not an ad hoc commission, it's an independent body like the Board of Appeal, like that of the Commission to consider complaints from citizens. Thus, an independent body whose task is to monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency, in accordance with the Law. I only remind you that each of these proposed members has considered Mr. Sorensen's cabinet and given consent to that. They are directly focused on this Law, for every member of it. So, if necessary, it is, it is an independent body that will monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13070	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13071	So, you, Mr. Mehmedović, were able to open a natural debate. I congratulate you, too. So, it's not about whether I'm angry or not, the thing was just in the next one, this was a request for procedure. So, there's a matter of demand, you need to discuss procedure. And of course, you've now managed to open the debate. Here I will refrain from answering you and to you who on 88 of this Parliament have risen and said, when we have proposed a ranking list for the selection of the Director of the Agency, so the Commission which this Parliament has appointed, etc. and we suggested a rank list and some first points, this one, you got up and said – stop has a political agreement, let's vote etc. And now you're talking about surveillance and independence. I'm asking the College, today we're discussing the procedure, and there's going to be a time when we're in first reading, we're going to discuss all this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13072	Thank you. So, in the opening of this debate, I made it clear, I am opening a debate on a request for a shortened procedure. So, I don't want to get a witness here, especially those who are more experienced in this House than I am, but I also refuse to protect MPs from something that doesn't need to be protected from, as counterpart Šemsudin Mehmedović said earlier, to protect him. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13073	Here's what I'm gonna do about the procedure. Either I didn't read it or I didn't understand what was the reason for the urgency and for the short procedure. Either I wasn't listening or I didn't hear it. I don't admit it if hurrying from Mr. Sorensen's office means it. Either I'm not well informed, or I haven't heard what's causing the procedure to be shortened.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13074	I'm thanking you. I just want to say that the bill was delivered on December 10th with a request for consideration under a shortened procedure, and the House will decide on that. So, the promoters asked for a shortened procedure. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13075	Look, the replica refers to the esteemed colleague Dušanka Majkić, I see, this commission is not for supervision, at least that's not what it's called. Whether or not it is, it is a second question, but writes the Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption. Therefore, it does not appear in the title that you are overseeing the work of this agency. That's one thing. And another replica to the esteemed Mr. Belkić. As far as I know, it's true that I've proposed a coordinated position of director and deputy director of this agency. But it is also true that at one of the previous sessions you resigned from membership in this Commission, but it seems to me that you have changed your mind lately given these new circumstances. Thank you very much. 89
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13076	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13077	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I think this is not a harmless thing, we are within the Constitutional Commission, members know about one requirement for authentic interpretation, those former members who were in this Commission, so they are no longer members of Parliament, we have received one request, and then we have settled this here in Parliament and the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, and we thought that as the Commission, we will solve this matter by proposing amendments and additions to the Law. And then we're asked not to. We are not, therefore, directly but by one letter received from the European Commission, and we are, as the Commission, the Constitutional Commission, so to speak. It's a serious matter, then. This agency was built the way it was made. It was made, you saw with some hard pain as a condition for BiH's progress on the European path, for visa liberalisation and all that was needed. It is not what was capacity and with great sensitivity is observed the work and development of that Agency. And that's why I'm asking, this is a very important question, whether it's surveillance or whether it's a follow-up, etc. and whether it's a permanent working body or whether it's in the Rules of Procedure or not, here's what these members signed and let's go to regular procedure, so let's go to regular, so I suggest we go to regular procedure with this here, so that this is done in close co-operation with the European Commission. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13078	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, vice-president. A debate or a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13079	Well, I rarely appeared today when there was a discussion about the agenda and when these audit reports were, because I thought it was a waste of time. Here's a question for all of you. What difference does it make whether the procedure is regular or shortened, when the 3rd is on the agenda? What's the difference? Symbolic, here's Mr. Džaferović says symbolic.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13080	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion. I am concluding the debate on point 77. 90 We move to point 78. Ad. 78. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in BiH institutions, Proposer: Committee for Gender Equality (second reading) At the 37th session of the House, held on 06.12.2012, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The competent constitutional committee delivered the report on 17 December 2012, no amendments. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear representative Šefik Džaferović reported for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13082	On behalf of the Constitutional Commission that has discussed this Law, I suggest that the House adopt this Law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13083	Thank you. A very concise debate. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 79. Ad. 79. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, Proposer: Committee for Gender Equality (second reading) At the 37th session of the House held on 06.12.2012, the draft law was adopted in the first reading. The responsible Financial and Budget Committee delivered the report on 18.12.2012, no amendments. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear Representative Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13085	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Commission for Gender Equality, I propose that we adopt this law because it agrees with the previous one. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13086	Thank you very much. I personally support this debate. I'm closing the debate on this point. We're moving to point 80. Ad. 80. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The Council of Ministers delivered the draft law in the procedure on 28 December 2012. As the committee responsible, the Constitutional Commission is designated. Opinion on constitutional basis and principles was delivered in 17.12.2012. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear representative Šefik Džaferović reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13088	The Constitutional Commission unanimously supported this Law. On the Constitutional Legal Commission, he was a representative of the Ministry of Justice and we were therefore told that this change was related to the suggestions made in the audit reports and that this change was the result of the request of international creditors regarding the provisions of the loan agreement. So that's what the Commission said, I've reviewed, therefore, those provisions of the law, I suggest that the House adopt it in the first reading. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13089	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13090	Here, there is none of the promoters, I do not know if Mr Džaferović can help me, did the European Development Bank accept such a model of a unit that is like a administrative organisation? As far as I know, they insisted on a fully independent implementation unit. If the Development Bank has accepted, there are no proposings here, it's absolutely acceptable and this was an emergency to be done. But I'm not sure if she accepted it in this form.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13091	Replica, MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13092	Mr. Belkić, I don't have an answer for that, I don't know... 92
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13093	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13094	So, I...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13095	I'm going to ask you for some attention, and yes, here you go, Mr. Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13096	So, I forgive Mr. Belkić, so there's no problem with any of this kind of inappropriate communication, but here's the halal of anything that concerns me, Beriza. So, at the Commission's meeting, he was a representative and I said what we asked the Commission's representative. And to me, as a lawyer, it's logical that we have an institution in construction, a institute for the execution of criminal sanctions in construction, as has been the solution so far. And then it was said that this was the result of the recommendations of the audit and these creditors not to be the Institute for Construction anymore, but to be a unit for implementation as an independent administrative organisation. I didn't ask any of the members of the Commission at the time, the question you asked me today, whether I knew if it was the condition of international creditors. If you consider Mr. Belkić that you do not have enough elements to decide on, because there is no representative of the Justice Ministry here, I have no objection to this point being removed from the agenda, wait for a representative of the Justice Ministry and let them answer your question. Maybe that would be best. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13097	Replica, MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13098	I'm not that important, but to be clear, so I asked very clearly, and if I can't get an answer, then there's no need. I read what the auditors and what they said and what they said, but I have some information and I know that the European Development Bank insists on an implementation unit that is outside the administration system. What we're proposing here is in the system of administration. And I didn't say anything else. My voice isn't that important. So, I'm absolutely not looking for anything, I'm just asking if there's anyone to explain it to me, no. I'll be against this law, of course people will adopt, everything's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13099	Ambassador Drago Kalabić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13100	Well, here's a very short one, you should have some clarifications, but I think, given that there are no proposings, we haven't had as much honor as the Constitutional Commission did, and it would be good to take this down and ask for those explanations. There's no reason, because you're watching a new storm organization 93 can't form auditors and banks, it's a very complicated issue, so we can talk about it that way. Now they should come and say from the Department of Justice, to these dilemmas, what will be and how it will be. And given that there are no proposings today, we are left without those answers and with those dilemmas, and I don't think there's any reason to rush, so we don't get that straight.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13101	Okay. Since there are no more applications for discussion, I am concluding a debate on this agenda point. Moving to the 81st point of the agenda, Ad. 81. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the BiH Judicial Police Act, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) Are there any reports? The word is from Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13103	So the Constitutional Commission has also analysed this Law. The Justice Department's representative was on the Constitutional Commission, and I have to say what was on the Constitutional Commission. And we've been informed, so I've read the provisions of this Act, compared to those provisions that are being amended, the reasons for the adoption is actually to comply with the Labour Act and other laws that have been passed in BiH and are related to the state service. And I, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, since the Commission unanimously supported this, suggest that this law be supported in the first reading. If Dom, because the promoter is gone, insists that this be removed from the agenda, I will support such a solution. Let the promoter come and then explain. So I don't have a problem either way. They were on the board, I heard what I was supposed to hear, but that's not enough, Dom needs to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13104	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13105	Here, I won't answer again, and I was really in the dilemma whether I should even report to this law at all, but please look, let's just say something, I won't say anything else, just look at it in an explanation, says – After 10 years of the law being passed, it's been determined, after 10 years, that the Law doesn't correspond in many ways to the office of the Judicial Police and is practically a problem for the functioning of the police, the judicial police, who couldn't perform their role to assist the court and the prosecution in the exercise of the functions of the court and the prosecution, so he says - independence, independence, 94 impartiality, expertise, efficiency. So, does the Judicial Police provide this to the prosecution and the court? Well, my people, I don't know, if this is okay, and I'm not talking about any other stuff. So, the Judicial Police, her job, in the explanation of the Justice Department, is to provide professionality, expertise, efficiency, etc., so I guess she guards the court and provides security, order and peace. But I won't answer again.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13106	Thank you. I find that there are no more reports. We're closing the 81st point of the agenda. We're moving to the 82nd agenda, Ad. 82. Report on work of BiH Appeal Office in 2011 I would remind you that this was a delayed debate and a statement at the 37th session of the House of Representatives on 06.12.2012. Is anyone answering for a discussion? The word is Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13108	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this report was the subject of a debate on the Finance and Budget Committee on several occasions and that it was returning to the supplement in order to, in today's form that we have on the agenda today, receive support from the Commission. It can be noted that the Board of Appeals was a significant institution in the public procurement system, that it showed quite high efficiency in solving and that the results of its work, from an opportunity at 2010 level, although the number of resolved cases was slightly less than 3%. What I would particularly like to point out is that the average value of the dispute considered among 1,784 complaints sent by the Public Procurement Appeals Office was the average value of the dispute of 548 000 marks. This is the result, the average of one structure in which up to 50,000 was about 862 disputes, between 50,000 and 800,000 about 604 and over 800,000 - 282 disputes. The Board of Appeal must make efforts to resolve complaints equally for the 20, 30, 50, and for the 10 million. Therefore, it is shown that rationalisation is introduced in the work of this Office and that it may be, in order to specialise in cases, according to the size of the dispute, according to the size of the contract for which complaints are filed. And it would certainly bring rationalisation in the work of the Office of Appeals on the principle of specialisation which could also be done by decentralisation by territorial criteria. The report also suggests the conclusions, three conclusions that should be adopted together with the Report, and one of them concerns the need to approach the appointment of the chairman's Office of Appeal as soon as possible, to which the term of office has expired. Thank you very much for your attention. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13109	Thank you. The word has a letter from Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13110	Well, thank you, Chairman. Let me just say a few words, in any case, considering that the chairman of the Board of Appeals did what he was told in the second case, so for the first time not all members of the Office for the Review of Appeals were for the proposal report, but in the second round, when it was insisted, they delivered the Report and we see that significant progress has been made in relation to what the Office has done so far to consider complaints. But I can't share with you, that in 2009, the House of Representatives reached several conclusions regarding the urgent need to find measures to advance public procurement procedures, and in particular to advance relations between the Public Procurement Agency and the Office for the Review of Appeals as two key public procurement institutions. And that's when it's said, in those conclusions, something that's never been realized. That the follow-up of years of problems in the work of two key institutions, the Public Procurement Agency and the Board of Appeals, the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers to form a working group that will analyse the situation in these two institutions and propose a solution to finding problems in their work. We reiterated that same conclusion in 2010. And a task force was formed, in that task force outside the House of Representatives, there was me, colleague Dervoz, and I mean colleague Martinović. And while the Council of Ministers informed us that we should start working, the deadline is up. So we asked to change the deadline, that was before going on vacation. Even to this day, that deadline is not... That's what I'm saying to make you understand the relationship to it. At this point, what's the biggest problem in the Board of Appeal? The director's been at the head of that body since 2006. Why? Because they don't know they're changing it, or they don't know how to change it. It's another laugh, which is the sole fruit of the Council of Ministers. What actually happened? The law on public procurement provides for the existence of a president of the Office to consider complaints, but not his deputy. However, the Management Act, its member of the 56th that entered into force on 06 January 2010, allows the Council of Ministers to appoint a new and chaired office to discuss complaints and its deputy to the chairman. They didn't do it today, they're probably out of their minds that there's such a chance they could do it. And when the Office of Appeal proposed before this deadline one of its members in the Council of Ministers no agreement was reached. So, everyone resents Amir Pilav being six years head of the office. Niko one says who's to blame because he's still sitting there, a man neither guilty nor owed. He says, as a doctor of law, who was appointed by Parliament, he says, "Here's a change of me, find a way to replace me." But normally, he won't tell them how they're gonna do it. And it's very interesting, and I congratulate him, this is how institutions should use the opportunity because you don't already know how you're going to replace me, and I'm going to be at the helm as much as I like. Therefore, the report submitted by Pilav on the number of cases, on how to resolve the case, on the problems he has in co-operation with the Public Procurement Agency, should be accepted with all the proposed conclusions set out in the report. 96
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13111	The word has the vice-president, Dr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13112	I thank the chairman. The BiH Appeal Office, I think, should be a serious institution. For at least two reasons, for economic and political and any other reason. Because the economics, in the material we've received, is that correct me if I'm wrong, close to a billion of the currently incarcerated funds due to complaints from certain agencies or companies that are interested in certain public procurement. Before that was in this term, I remember there were three billion. And I'm going to do it again because I have a stenogram that I was saying, and there were three billion. Now 980, for example, millions other than one billion, it is a serious thing that has turned into a political problem to capture so much money in BiH by an agency that has not found a way and suggested that in its conclusions in their report that it is possible for the office to dislocate and be closer, not to the citizens, but to businesses and entrepreneurs in some cities in BiH, and to resolve the largest part of the disputes involved, let's say, up to 800,000 marks. That's not the science doctor, nor the president of this agency in all the time he's been doing, as the lady, the distinguished colleague Majkić, has made no fantastic suggestion. But don't worry, someone else will propose, and it'll come here on the agenda very soon, to solve all of your problems there, and for a serious institution it's also very important that there are both respectable, professional faces, when you see the CVs of people who work there, these are people with great experience and for each of them, I think they've found places on that commission, except that they're ungrably driven by bad interpersonal relations all this time with the tendency that they're escalating even more. And this is the continuing work of this Agency where we can list problematic reports, but also disputes before the Court of BiH, you can think of violating the rights of workers by the chairman or director of this Commission for not using the annual holidays from 2006 to 2011, the BiH Court of Justice is discussing. Yes, it is. But it also debates before the CEC over violations of the Public Procurement Act by Mr. Director towards Dženit Fočo and Stipa Petričević. You may think the CEC is discussing a violation of the Public Procurement Act, according to evidence provided by the director to the CEC. I guess it should be about conflict of interest. Look at the report, all of you who have read this report, but you have skipped certain pages. There is, and I think the dispute for the physical attack that took place so that the M.P. Canton of Sarajevo, you know that, according to the director, removed a member of the board of directors, and that's the case.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13113	Is that on You Tube?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13114	Well, I don't know if there's any on you Tube, but there's a report in the report, you should read the report. In that every report, even in that separate part of the report, you might think, the director has a separate report so our commission said it couldn't be isolated, you have to meet and make a single report, right? Not to mention, read this Isolated Report under 15 and at 16 of these points where it is said that, just because man didn't use an annual vacation, the Agency worked full time and managed to finish the whole job. So he was saying, here I am now going to add that Mrs. Dervoz had to ask to report here and suggest certain conclusions 97 that this Parliament adopts it, so now that Mrs. Dervoz is not here, now one of our other colleagues has asked to come forward so that she says a few sentences about it, apparently the man has an affinity towards certain MPs here. I don't see any reason why he doesn't talk to all of us, but since 2006, we've been having problems in the management of that agency, but also in the work of the Agency, which is a problem for the whole of BiH, the problem of confiscation of funds greater than billions. It is a problem and no other personal or any other problem, and the Council of Ministers has sent a proposal to the Parliamentary Assembly to relieve Dr Amir Pilav of his duties, but this Parliament has not done so, not the Council of Ministers. The conclusions that are proposed here seem good to me, but I would like to review some of them, so I say that the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly owes the Council of Ministers that: 1. In accordance with the existing Law on Public Procurement of BiH and the Law on Administration, the procedure for the appointment of the chairman and vice-president of the Board of Appeals is being carried out. What I think is unquestionably stated by these conclusions can be done. 2. The bodies and the legitimacy and legality of the mandate of the members of the Board of Appeals and may decide on the opening of competitions and the setting of conditions for members of the Board of Appeals. That would make it clear that this office is not outside the law and that it needs good things to be prepared. And as far as the law itself is concerned, I assure you that perhaps even until the next session, the law concerning that part of public procurement, or the Office of Appeals, will be here on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13115	Thank you. Replica, MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13116	Mr. Chairman, my replica refers to the presentation of the esteemed representative, that is, Vice President Živković. I wouldn't say it was just the office's fault for this situation in the office. Namely, if you read the report, you saw that there were 1,700 and some items. This year we have a tendency to increase the number of cases. What does that mean? It means that someone who doesn't respect the Public Procurement Act violates the Law and that's why we have so many complaints. It's not the Office's fault. It's the state of BiH society. So that means that crime and corruption have taken so long to wave that, this year there will be more objects than all the years together. That's the problem. How do you get to that? Whether the Office is inefficient or not, and so on, the Commission has quite well analysed it and suggested good conclusions. So let's say that if we need to intervene on the Public Procurement Act, but also intervene to make this Office more efficient, because it's not Mr. Pilav's fault that the situation in the office is as it is. We chose his associates there, he didn't choose them. 98 Therefore, because of the desire or intensities of some members of the Office, to make a certain decision of the preamble and against the law, that is the second question, which is why he also had a physical attack. I just happened to visit that office and when I saw the number of items there in one room, that's terrible. You need to go, see what kind of conditions these people work there. And I think they need to be helped to overcome this problem of the functioning of this Office, because unfortunately they make the decisions there by majority vote, whether something is legally valid or not legally valid, most of the votes. Believe it was both news and for me, and in fact it's encouraging corruption in the Bosnian Herzegovina society, and that's why we have this number of cases, or we have a tendency to increase the number of cases because, among other things, everyone has done everything that this office doesn't work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13117	Thank you. Replica, Dr. Milorad Živković, deputy chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13118	When I mentioned that it was a political problem, I was directly thinking about the SDA protecting the president of this office and not letting him change it. Therefore, it is obvious that politics has been involved here and that your policy since 2006 has been constantly producing problems through the director, but also through the functioning of the Office. The law will be proposed, and I guarantee that the SDA will be against that law, that the Office be placed in certain cities in BiH, and that up to 800,000 heights, problems are considered there. And you will see that the SDA will be against, that it will be proven that it is behind everything that is going on behind the Board of Appeals. But not to be that it's just a hypothetical flossula I have therefore proposed a conclusion in which all members of the Board of Appeal and their legality and legality are also being discussed. and ask the Council of Ministers if they are found not to be in office, to call a competition. We're not going to say that there's only one man in the world in that right, and the other six are corrupt, that they're against it, that they're doing it legally, so let's see who's right there and who needs to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13119	Replica, MP Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13120	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13121	The Republic has an MP, Šemsudin Mehmedović, for a stenogram.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13122	It is unacceptable that Mr. Živković's assessment that the SDA is behind those there, is it not possible to cool down some of the actions, not the functioning of the Office and so on. As I recall, when we were reviewing the reports of this Office over the past years, Mr. Živković, you were in this old meeting, and you, in no way did you support the Office's report, nor did you suggest conclusions in terms of improving the work of this Office. It is not a staff solution of SDA Mr. Pilav as president or director of this Office, nor do I know what it is called, but it means the staff solution of this Parliament. So what's not working, what everyone's done is that this office doesn't work, that's a special issue, and that's not what the SDA has contributed to. Whether we will be against amending and supplementing the law that treats this area will we see when we get from this parliamentary majority a proposal for such a legal solution. Of course, if it's the detachment of the state, I'm saying in advance, that we'll be against it, you don't have to doubt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13123	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13124	I replicated a respected colleague, Mehmedović, who said that more complaints are the result of violations of the Public Procurement Act. I think that's not true and I'm sorry that in this report, so that's not the only reason, I'm sorry that there's not one segment in this report that would talk about companies that become professional complainants. So, which appears with complaints in all possible and impossible cases and thus make it difficult for the Office to work and also block huge sums of money, as well as for fellow Živković. The information my esteemed colleague from the Domazet Club stated that the average value of the dispute was about 550,000 marks and that we had about 1,700 disputes, or complaints, is in proportion to the amount of money collected from taxis, only 68,000. And it is precisely possible that there is a solution to the problem, especially if we look at the model in our neighbourhood in Croatia where this law has been amended in a way that the prescribed differentiated value of the tender tax, the level of the tender, where the effect was surprising, even for those who assessed it would be good, and the effect was that by 80% the number of complaints was reduced. They are particularly neutralized by these professional complainants who complain about all tenders in their own and in other people's name, for their own account and for other people's account. So, I'm sorry that there's no such segment in this report, because it certainly doesn't seem to be a prejudicial reason for the number of complaints, a violation of the Public Procurement Act, because there are a lot of those complaints that are rejected as unfounded. But no one can make up for the time of the stopped project when two construction seasons pass so the project can't be completed. Who's responsible for that? Nothing, you pay 100 marks, you complain and stop the project until I know how many millions. Things like that have to change. And for that reason, I think that we need to improve the functioning and productivity of the Office by amending the relevant law that will primarily go in two directions, one of which is to destimulate unfounded complaints and the possibility of stopping projects, and the other in the direction of increasing productivity. And I think it would be a good idea to get the changes and additions of the law in this direction as soon as possible. Thank you. 100
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13125	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13126	Thank you, Mr. President. So here, just now, the ongoing debate is talking about what kind of political circumstances and ambience the Board of Appeals is working under. And acting under these circumstances to anyone, no matter how professional or less professional, it's very complicated. Obviously, all of us with our own eyes, to say the same thing, are looking at personal solutions in the office, and maybe through it we're looking more at whether we're satisfied or not content with how the Office worked. I'll try to escape from that principle, so I'll warn you of two related things. This Office was established by the Law on Public Procurement, and the Law on Public Procurement refers to the obligation of special procedures for users of public funds, means public funds, they have an obligation to question tenders, they have an obligation to conduct these procedures and when someone is not satisfied with the selection of performers then complains to the Board of Appeal. And I wish all the problems were in the Board of Appeals and in the chairman's office, but I'm afraid not. Over 2°3 total complaints filed have been respected, what does that say? In over two to three cases, so-called In the first instance, regulated bodies holding public funds unlawfully assigned a job and a guilty appeal office. No matter what he was, he's not guilty, he's in this case, so in 2'3 cases he's found, so I don't know who they are now, I wish that those organs were listed, we might have found a lot of ministries, a lot of institutions from the municipality, to the state level, and determined who it was that broke the law and that violates him. So this one, and who is the culprit, and I agree that the other problem is related to this problem, which is almost a billion converting marks of frozen funds, because they can't be used because of the fact that those who have public funds illegally assign jobs. That's what statistics say. So over a thousand complaints were justified, they were not challenged in court either. I want to believe that the Board of Appeals has complied with these complaints in accordance with the law, because at the same time some complaints have been rejected in 148 cases and I believe, I am sorry, what counterpart Magazinović said, 380 cases have been rejected. I believe that among them are those companies that apply only to complain and to accomplish their own interests in other ways. But we have to imagine the fact that those who have public funds were illegally assigned jobs in 2-3 cases. That's the problem, that's our problem and that's the law problem. The question is how many, except for these several cases of criminal charges, were sanctioned because of the first damage that illegality had done to such a person, which was illegally shared by business and the second, by such a decision slowed the process and led to the frozen 978 million. So again I'm saying, I'm familiar with the facts about, here I'm going to say, the worse relations between two important agencies, the Board of Appeals and the Public Procurement Agency, and that should be dealt with absolutely. But let's not run away from the fundamental problem or the problem is in the law, there are a lot of those that I've heard at least have bad legal solutions and I think these conclusions that were proposed by the Board of Appeals, I have to say, but this is not just accepted on the Budget and Finance Commission that discussed this, which has several times returned to the Office for reviewing the report on its work. But these, again, are key things, and that is, not to repeat the fifth time, the key things are in regulated bodies and 101 possibly in unfinished and inaccurate legal provisions, and so I call on everyone here to accept this report and accept these conclusions that are with the report.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13127	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13128	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I think Mr. Lozančić said most of what I intended to say. I, therefore, fully agree that there is no problem here in the Order, here is the problem at the Council of Ministers and here in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The law governing this area has many, as I would say, misunderstandings. I remember, if we want to be well-intentioned then we should help the institution to function as successfully as possible, you know that for a long time in BiH, for example, a delayed execution of the second-degree decision by this authority until the BiH Court of Justice has reached a verdict in the administrative dispute. For a long time it was done, we saw that it was a problem and then we got involved, so we as Parliament through the Constitutional Commission who proposed a solution and corrected that thing and today this thing is no longer a problem, we interpreted it the right way. So, after justice, you know what happens, the administrative dispute is known what the consequences are in all other cases, and that is, the situation is arranged in the right way. I think that this should be an example of how we should treat all the institutions, and among other things, this Office, and I think that everyone in our discussions and in our activities should have our efforts, so we should make efforts to help this institution function in the right way. Believe me, whatever we are here and as much as we have objections to ourselves here, everywhere below us, so we are the very top, we can expect it to be at its best here. Don't expect anywhere to be, we're an example and we need to be an example and that's why I think we should support this report. I think we need to help okay, and the upcoming amendment to the law is something very serious, and that's what we're going to talk about when it comes here to Parliament. As far as I'm concerned, he better not come, but if he does, then we'll talk. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13129	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing at 82nd, and I'm calling for a representative of the Office. Please give me a moment.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13130	Dear Mr. Chairman and honourable MPs. I would use the time just to look back at as brief as possible on some of the comments that have been made here. I think that the Board of Appeals is one of the more effective institutions in BiH, you will see from the Report, which we have stated, if you compare only the number of complaints received in similar bodies in the countries of the region that we had a multiple number of complaints last year than similar 102 bodies in the countries of the region. Here's a hint of, let's say, an example of the Republic of Slovenia as members of the EU last year, their body had about 460 complaints last year, during which time we had 1,760 and we solved the largest number from far, far fewer people and approved funds than in similar institutions in the countries of the region. I wouldn't quote other countries here right now, so you've got it all in the report, so you can see it. We have constantly since the beginning of the Office's work an increase in the number of complaints, reminding us in 2006 that the number was over 600 and has grown here this year with today's day we have nearly 2 080 complaints with today, which means we have a huge increase in the inflow of complaints. And he's always working on the same set of people who, who have managed to solve more than he does in all the countries of the region. In other countries they would probably be far happier if they had such results, however, there is the Office for Discussing Appeals for some reasons constantly, each year suffering criticism from certain circles although its results are not negligible. What this esteemed vice-president of the House said, I must say, most of it is not true. Simply, for example, a figure of 3 billion has been used that no one in the official version has ever established anywhere, namely, at the conclusion of the Finance Commission and the budget for the first time this year has collected the value of the appeal procedures and so it was first established for the past year that the value of these appeals was around 980 million KM. So it's simply impossible that in the earlier period when the number of complaints was smaller than it was last year, it would be worth 3 billion. So these are some data that have been processed by NGOs, and I don't think it's convenient to use it for a pay phone as an information that no one has officially established. As for other remarks, here I would only refer to one regarding the mandate, in the current Law on Public Procurement of BiH nowhere has the term of office of members of the Board of Appeals been established. In the parliamentary assembly's decisions on the appointment of all current members of the Board of Appeals, there is also no duration and limitation of the mandate. And if this limitation of the duration of the term of office is to be introduced, then this should be proposed and amended by the Public Procurement Act and thus resolved. They are therefore incorrect to say that the term of office of the chairman of the Office, as stated here, has not expired under the current law. Why did the Board of Appeal propose the appointment of the chairman and vice-president? For the simple reason that, following the entry into force of the Administration Act, we immediately reacted, asked for the law to be implemented and that appointment, meaning early 2010. However, the Council of Ministers has never discussed this January 2010 requirement, so here it means after two years and more. And it's just the conclusion that it's going to establish a state of mind the way the law provides. As for these other remarks about the annual vacation, I simply didn't have an alternate, although here were the terms of the 2010 appointment of a deputy, for these reasons I didn't use my vacation to avoid any damage to the budget and I think I succeeded in that part, because if I hadn't been there, but had I been on vacation, the damage would have been huge. Because any failure to make decisions as foreseen by the law is having huge consequences. I'd add one more thing here, why I might have had the largest number of complaints from countries in the region. One reason is very simple, and this is our fees on complaints are far away from at least all other countries in the region and range from 20 KM to 100 KM, which is precisely what stimulates companies to lodge complaints in huge numbers, while in the countries of the region the fees on complaints are also moving several thousand euros. So just the bidders who don't have a solid basis for wishes and don't file complaints, that's why this number of complaints with them is smaller. 103 How much the Board of Appeal, for example, has been neglected in relation to some other similar institutions, I will give you just one example. In one case, we have a situation where, at the same time, this bidder has filed a claim for damages before the Office for the Review of Appeals and before the ordinary court. In the procedure before the ordinary court, he seeks compensation for damages of 30 000 KM and, at the request of the court and under the applicable Tax Act, paid a court fee of 900 KM. In our case, he made a request far greater than 2.5 million and you can't charge a single tax mark, simply in the Law it's not intended for those purposes. And let's just say intervention in that direction would contribute to a significant budget charge and would reduce the number of complaints. He would still only answer this remark, if we hadn't proposed amendments to the law, under the current law, that's not the jurisdiction of the Board of Appeal, it's the authority of the Public Procurement Agency, so we are what we could indicate what should be amended, but it's simply our jurisdiction that we are not proposing amendments to the law. Here, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13131	I thank the director of the office. Here, before I give the opportunity to replicate my deputy, let me look back at a few sentences on this report. In fact, the very fact that this Office was considering more complaints than the Slovenian Office does not speak in any way about the efficiency of the Office, but talks about the system deficits in BiH and this, therefore, part of the sequence in the debate reminded me of a period from my orthopedic period when the then director of the ortopedija in Titograd praised Robert Salter, the head of Ortopedia in Toronto, who designed the operation for the abandoned... hip, that he made 200 Solter operations. Solter answered him – unfortunately, my colleague is not that much. Because Canada has better prevention. So much, and the replica is now my deputy, or vice president, Mr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13132	I thank the chairman. In fact, I'm a little surprised by the appearance of the director who dared even after this pay phone here to give a lecture to an MP, a member of the College, it doesn't matter. You've gone too far, because you're simply a conflicting person, it confirms that with the director of public procurement you're in a constant and continuous conflict, it confirms that you don't talk to any board members, that you've physically had dealings with some of them. This also says that in this House you are in continuity bringing reports with a separate report from you that you have failed to approve any member of the Management Board to vote for you. So, you don't know how to run this office, I don't get into your expertise, or the things you do, professionalism aside, but management, I'm sorry, but I don't think you're the right man in the right place for such a serious function. And it should have been long ago for this Parliament to see both the people who defend this position. As far as the bill is concerned, they may also be in the form of the conclusions you were about to propose, but you couldn't because your commander of the SDA who won't even hear there's any other office of appeals that could be a unit in Mostar, a unit in Banja Luka, to settle disputes with economic operators regardless of where part of BiH is, but where it's closer to them to 104 working, up to 800 thousand. It didn't occur to you to suggest it, because it's the collapse of the state according to the concept that the people who installed you here consider. I don't think, I think it's an improvement in the BiH economy, an improvement in this law that's on its own, and it's from the people on the left, from the international community who imposed this law on us, we have a problem every day and we're going to talk about it every day. And those who don't want to fix it at all, they keep arguing us and pointing each other at each other. And that is why I think that these conclusions, which are not directed against you, are aimed at countering the efficiency of the Office that you are leading and towards improving the passage of economic solutions in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13133	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13134	I'm really sorry to my colleagues, even though I said I wouldn't answer again, but what they say isn't that a man of the devil's peace. I absolutely understand, and it will probably happen, what you are announcing, that there will be an initiative, a package of one that will work to establish better efficiency of the Office, etc. and that, of course, there will also be certain staff changes in how the parliamentary majority will probably agree and there is nothing controversial about it. However, I find it somewhat controversial to have a kind of disqualification of a man. All of us can experience each and every one of us in different ways, but publicly determining that man is conflicting and publicly claiming that he can't cooperate with the Management Board, that this, that it, in my opinion, is not very good. I, for example, have experienced this man as opposed to you, Mr. Živković, on the side of what I think of the way he works, etc., we all have different approaches, but I have seen him as a man who strictly and firmly adheres to the law and insists on the law. And there's all the talk. If you carefully look at his Isolated opinion, not one of these things that he stated in the Isolated Opinion less, more, you cannot dispute that it is not in accordance with the law. If he says the Public Procurement Act didn't predict the duration of the mandate, that's what it says, it's not good, but that's what it says. If he says the Council of Ministers didn't agree to the regulation on... that's right. So, of course I understand that things are going to go the other way, but let's say, a man sits, I notice, sitting here third session a man sits all day here and waits to get in line and then we sort of discredit him really dibidos. So, replace, replace you, but you don't need people to discriminate that way.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13135	Thank you. Dear Representative Milorad Živković, vice-president, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13136	I understand what my esteemed colleague is saying, but I wasn't talking about the expertise of the concerned, so put him in the Constitutional Court if he knows so much about law and he's so rigid that he interprets him properly. But the man in the position of the Director of Appeal to be tried with everyone, to argue with everyone and to have time and 105 to sit here with us three sessions, he lacks a managerial and elastic spirit to be in such a place. Such a person in that place obviously did not respond to the task. You may agree with me or not, but it's my position and you will, of course, and you will naturally put your people on, yes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13137	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, a replica, although I don't know who and why, because no one called him.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13138	And the U.S.A.? Well, we touched the U.S.A.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13139	I respect that.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13140	Okay, Mr. Chairman, thank you. So, the SDA has repeatedly insisted on amending the Public Procurement Act, only that these changes, in a functional sense, go easier on these procedures and know our proposals, but it was always disputed by the SNSD, if we're going to depose it now and push it on entities, etc. So, if you really wanted us to have a better Public Procurement Act, you'd bring along a better solution and you'd go into procedure and then this Board of Appeal would certainly have less to do with it. Here I am not going to defend the director of the Agency, since Mr. Belkić was already doing it, but here's the truth, and once again I call on us to do something about the Public Procurement Act. So here are the discussions before, and as far as the audit reports are concerned, the Law on Public Procurement and the real problems, and he is essentially a real problem, and we expect here from the Council of Ministers, for many years now, to finally deliver to us in the procedure in Parliament either a draft or a proposal so that we can consider and create a more quality environment in that part. Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13141	Thank you. No more reports, I'm closing the hearing at point 82, and we're moving to point 83, Ad. 83. Report on the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the priorities set out in the European Partnership with BiH document 2008-2012, material of the Directorate for European Integration of BiH (scheduled debate and statement at the 37th session of the House of Representatives held on 06.12.2012) The Joint Committee on European Integration at the 9th session discussed the Report, and adopted the conclusion that it should be sent home in a further procedure. The report was drawn up in line with the conclusion of the 14th session of the House of Representatives, held on 24.11.2011. 106 I'm opening a debate. Dear representative Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Spremo reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13143	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm, since I'm in charge of the European Integration Commission, I'd like to say a few words about this, about this agenda point. As far as it is concerned, the implementation of the priority measures in the European Partnership Commission document, the Joint Commission of both homes for European integration, has indeed had more, therefore, continued to work. He works continuously in co-operation with the Directorate for European Integration, and this time I want to give one commendation to the Directorate for European Integration and their director, Mrs Savić, who was always at our service when we needed some consultations on these very important issues of European integration. As for this, it means that we have recognised as the Commission the importance of the Action Plan, meaning, for the realization of priorities, I will only mention this House that it means our Joint Commission has given one opinion already on 23.10.2011, in which we have said that we are therefore giving an opinion on the mid-term review of the implementation of the activities of the Action Plan for the Implementation of the priorities set out in the document European Partnership for the period January – June, then, 2011. So, approximately exactly a year ago. Thus, the Commission for European Integration at its meeting held on that date discussed the half-year review of the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the priorities set out in the document European Partnership with information on its development and adopted the following conclusions after the debate. I will not read you all these conclusions, of course not necessary, but under point 4 of these conclusions, we have said that we think it is necessary to review the implementation of priorities for the next report, so for June – December 2011 it continues to contain detailed information on the state of each of the priorities of the Action Plan. Which includes... the reasons for prolonging, then the degree of implementation of priorities, which means whether it's a smaller part, half or completely, of activities to address priorities that are identified as open issues. That was, then, just a year ago, in the meantime we've had more constructive meetings. We recently had a meeting with Mr. Bevanda, who actually gave us directions from the Roadmap. And very constructive was the debate at that session, so Mr. Bevanda as if, the chairman of the Council of Ministers introduced us precisely to the meaning of the harmonised map of the trip from Brussels, which has a total of 6 points. Of those 6 points of the Map times, I am quick to speak, don't laugh if you think it would have gone any faster, so she's familiar with those 6 points, of those 6 points 4 are approximately, meaning, realized, and two of which are very important for this Parliament, the first point is the point that is not realized, and that is the question of the judgment of Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci. Due to the issue, so, the importance of all these European integrations we know, we have the information that this Action Plan, i.e. the report on the implementation of the measures in the Action Plan for the Implementation of the priorities of the European Partnership document with BiH for the period 2008-2012, was adopted at the 18th session of the Council of Ministers held on 30.08.2012. I don't know if Mrs. Savić has any objections about this, I'm saying that all of us as a meaning of the House should be very attached to this issue and that it should be one basic question for us, which means that we will all agree on as one of the priorities of this 107 House of Representatives. And I'm really saying once again that we have excellent co-operation with the European Integration Directorate. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13144	Thank you. I just want to go ahead and report to the House that we in the College have agreed to do another hour in accordance with Article 74, so in case we don't finish the session and continue tomorrow. Dear representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13145	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I would not agree first with what my colleague said, first of all, we see that this is the 83rd point on the agenda, and I would like this not to be an eighty-threeth priority for this Parliament. We are how much the Commission did best talks and that we had a meeting in late May, then in October. The Commission, for European integration, has the Joint Commission on European Integration of the BiH Parliament to monitor the implementation, and we are getting documents and materials from the Directorate for European Integration. The Directorate for European Integration is leading very fast, very pedanticly, the report in its form is clear, reviewed, it is expected that the data are also given in it completely accurate, but what it says inside is unfortunately not good for us. And we should all wonder why that's not good. If we look at what was before BiH, which was the task and why this Action Plan for the Implementation of the priorities of the European Partnership was made, then we see that 177 priorities have been set up in different ways, so that I do not now detail, i.e. 151 priorities, because others have not been defined enough, and therefore it was necessary to implement 1 046 measures. If you ask yourself and you see it nicely from this document how much has been done, then you can see that 62% is realised, which of course is not enough. We can't just say that we have one obligation to execute the Court of Human Rights verdict and change, change the Constitution, there's a lot more to be done here and what could be done and what needs to be done for the functioning of this country. The report also said that, which are the best results and interestingly, we are concerned about human rights in this report that, when it comes to human rights, the best results are achieved in this area, when it comes to implementing measures from the area, or from the European Partnership. And at least what happens is the least realised is what applies to everyday life. So, what makes BiH the country in which someone will come and invest, where they will be able to trade and it is no wonder that despite a series of warnings, I personally asked at least 20 questions to the various institutions of this country that were in charge of solving, it is no wonder that we now have a problem with, how we are going to export milk and dairy products, meat and rest in Croatia when we haven't done something in time that doesn't have much political connotation. I even asked questions about how much some things depend on political arrangements, and how many are the results of the work of the administration? I have to realize that there must be plenty of space that the administration within the ministries has not done, and I have the Directorate for European Integration, which gives us the report, I have nothing to object to, they keep records well and do their job well. 108 You will, last year I, too, have warned the media that because of the lack of strategies, some of us are unable to implement such a report, BiH is unable to implement even funds, a grant from IPA funds. And just someone out there in some institution won't make a strategy or not adopt a strategy and can't spend money. And just because I warned you, we're having a delay problem right now. Everyone here was saying that we had met all the conditions and now the story has come true, 15 days ago BATA received international accreditation. So before that, no paper, no one, no one of our laboratories was valid, no matter what internal accreditation that was in force in BiH outside could be exported. There are a number of issues that can be worked on and are not political issues for political decisions, but are issues of the work of our institutions. Unfortunately, the processes required during the implementation of these measures are long. In order to be accredited, our institute would be accredited from complete preparation for two years to obtaining accreditation. I want to point out the importance of it again on this occasion. I have no objections to the form and what it says here, but also to the form of what's written, but I have an objection to the content of it, or to what we should worry about. I would therefore, as the least I could do, suggest one conclusion, and invited to what I warned five years ago that it was happening to us, so the conclusion is: In the Council of Ministers' 2013 Work Plan, it is mandatory to foresee in all ministries strategies for certain areas for which the ministries will apply to the funds of the IPA Funds from 2014 to 2020. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13146	Thank you. Dear representative Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13147	Here, I have to replicate to my colleague Nermina, it is not true that my colleague Nermin thinks, that you have interpreted me so, it is also not true that only one of these obligations has not been fulfilled, namely the judgment of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci. Of course, it is perfectly clear to me as a responsible person that we have one huge path, because it is a process, a process of European integration, and I think it should be a much more frequent topic of this House's session. So, the thematic sessions of this House, of course it's a process that goes its course. On the other hand, you said that we have a whole series of problems, of course we have a whole series of problems, so we're not all able to act that way at once and in all possible ways. We had a very constructive meeting the other day with Mr. Šarović, our minister, did any, and his associates from the agency for, the Veterinary Office, then this Food Safety Agency, so we got different data. Of course, let me tell you, I am, on this occasion, saying that I was happy that we got the Food Safety Agency, because we were so far a black market of any commercial lobbys. Of course, that food ended here in suspicious 109 origins from various countries, why poor BiH citizens knew nothing or were informed. It's very good to have all this in place, of course it's a process and of course we have to respect some time continuity. I only appeal to all of us that, therefore, the issue of European integration and all of this that follows, coordination means with Aki, what the Directorate for European Integration is doing, we give one too much importance, that we constantly mean it. But really, my colleague Nermin, I don't think we have one unresolved question at all, we have a mass.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13148	Thank you. Dear Representative Milica Marković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I'll do my best to make my remarks about this report in shorter lines. First of all, I believe that this report has been prepared very thoroughly and studioically and that the Directorate for European Integration has indeed made a real effort to make a comprehensive presentation of all the measures that have been fulfilled and which are not met or there are no conditions for them to be met. There's no need to talk about those measures that have been met except to say that it's a good thing that they're done and that it's done. But it must be said that, and this is, in fact, the essential feature of this report, that a significant number of measures stand where it is indicated for them that they are not fully implemented, and also for one significant number of measures are said to be, not implemented because further consultations have to be carried out. Now, of those that have not been executed, I will be apostrophe of the three that seem to me to be the most important and important and that there are conditions in the present circumstances to meet these measures. Therefore, the first is the implementation of the European Court of Justice ruling in the case of Sejdić and Finc, the job has been initiated. I don't know as an MP what's going on with the commission, where she is, as far as she's come, what, what's currently in action, so if there's anything going on, but that means a commitment that stands and that needs to continue as fast as possible to implement her. The second measure that has been indicated here and apostrophe is the reform of the judiciary, i.e. the judiciary and judicial institutions in BiH. And a third measure that is also very serious and that we should all work on from our point of view where we are responsible and how much we can contribute, which is the fight against crime and corruption. So these are three large measures that are highlighted and of course for all three are said not to be fully realised, but to be working on it. For the other part which is not realised and which is also said to be also significant that further consultations are needed, one fundamental question is raised, which is of course in the explanation of these measures and stated that they are not met because there is no consensus or consensus and is said to require further consultations. And what's that? This is actually a situation with certain activities where it comes from if these measures were to be met, so there has to be a transfer of competence between entities and states. And there is now a whole set of other issues and problems, but of course we have to think about whether we will be in a position at all to meet these measures at any time or to drag it to the next 10, 15 and 20 years because, let's say, RS will never accept that for 110 European integrations and Euro-Atlantic routes BiH is transferring the powers that belong to it and that it is not obliged to transfer more to the state. So now I'm going to raise just some questions, let's say, to adopt the state legislation on bonds, and then says social protection, so the protection of mental health, so the policy of research, the legal framework for small and medium-sized enterprises, which the RS has openly challenged to form a small and medium-sized enterprise agency, then industrial policy, is also required to form a new agency. The Agency for Agricultural Activity means to transfer the area of agriculture to a state level which is now an entity's jurisdiction. The Environment and Environmental Protection Agency is also the entity's exclusive jurisdiction. So this is just some of the questions that are and the mahogany for all of these is said to have to be done and additional consultations. I just mean, I want to point out that we all think about it, if we get carried away with this entity's competences being transferred to the state level for European integration, then we'll wait a long time for these measures to be met or maybe never met. And, of course, I don't want to say that it's a job of the Directorate for European Integration, not at all, so it's a job or political parties or party leaders or some other instance that we need to, or simply accept the reality that on that basis, I can't implement these measures and that's how it's possible to settle at the level of the entity that they currently belong to as jurisdiction. Or if someone does not want to accept this reality and reality, then it must accept the reality that we will long wait for these measures to be fulfilled. So I just wanted to point out that something that I think is essential in this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13150	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13151	Just for a little while, my colleague Marković, we do not receive the EU in BiH, but the EU is receiving BiH in the EU, and what will be left for us now, we have attitudes like we do, I think that the life that is ahead of us will lead us all to think differently in BiH and don't, as it is said in the daily jargon, make certain things hard for us, so let us see how things are going to happen. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13152	Thank you. Dear representative Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13153	Well, obviously, by now some of them have said, let's let you see it like this, so here's how long we've been waiting for more than 10 years for some things to come true, but it's not going to work out, as I'm probably not going to fill up with a bunch of these things that I've read here, and that's why I said. I mean, don't stick our heads in the sand or live in some illusions that it'll happen if it doesn't happen. That it would happen that someone would agree to transfer the agriculture to the state level when it didn't happen. And let's not fool ourselves with that plan, but rather accept reality and reality as it is and see what can be done optimally under the given circumstances. And that you're going to convince me or someone else in RS of what you said, it's a fairy tale.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13154	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13155	Thank you. I must point out that I am concerned about the conclusion of the Committee on European Integration, so that the report should be adopted and the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the minister to whom that only conclusion I have read here is called. So I'm worried about the work of this committee, because that's where we should have our first directions right now where we are, and I'm afraid I don't know what, what here. And the report needs, the report is also accurate, clear and is said especially when it comes to the economy, when it comes to the market and the game, the competition that is imposed on us by joining or entering the EU, we see here all data exactly speak in the area of movement of goods and services, in the areas of small and medium-sized enterprises, industry, small and medium-sized enterprises are planned to realize five, realised zero, so nothing. Gentlemen, where are we going? And I agree that this is even more of a political problem, because we will not do an EU integration programme, we need to do an integration programme in the EU, then we will know what jurisdiction is, we will determine what the entity will do, what the state will do, what the canton will do, what it will do. But we're obviously doing it, but we're doing it all to our advantage. Mr. Šefik, he has the right to say, we will be brought to poverty, the citizens will drive us out of these benches to do it, because the market, our market, our labour, our people will be gone, we will be gone, we will be everything, everything will be saved on the social side. And that's why I'm saying that here, in some ways, we get serious about ourselves first of all from the Committee that's responsible for giving us guidance on certain things, and the Council of Ministers that has certain things that need to be arranged and has been tasked with doing certain things, and the report shows that this has not been done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13156	Thank you. I saw here on the display Vesna Krstović Spremo, replica or?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13157	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13158	Here you go. 112
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13159	Let me tell you, Mr Lijanović, I don't know how you've concluded, what you've concluded about our commission, but I think we conducted a similar session about European integration a year ago. Of course, if it were not for us from the RS that through European integration we were to lead to one, as I would say, unitaryization of the state. And of course there are mechanisms for that to provide the RS with what it has the right to under the Constitution. And I would not agree with you that, if something would force us higher, it would be something entirely, another political issue. But here, here in this report that Mr. Bevanda gave us last time really nicely introduced us to the Council of Ministers very seriously working on one system of coordination, means all these questions. And that's our thing, our political will, how we're going to get along in that coordination system and what it belongs to, to entities, to the state level, and so on. I think it's very good that a single coordination body was created and as far as I'm aware of by Mr. Bevanda, this coordination team has already had several meetings on this very sensitive issue. We all know it's a very sensitive issue, so to speak, politically. And of course we're going to adjust to what our interests are in all this because we're not really here because we're like this or what we are, but because someone here chose us.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13160	Thank you. The truth is, that it is working, that the coordination mechanism is in place and the seven are committed in Brussels, so it will do so, even within a certain time limit. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13161	So she doesn't get it wrong. As for me, transferring competences from Republika Srpska to the state, from the state to Republika Srpska, from Republika Srpska to the municipality, here, I am open to it, I have no claim whatsoever to carry it up. I'm in favour of doing the jobs of those who accept. All the municipalities work there, great, we'll dance to them here – gentlemen physically you do it all, I don't have any illusions about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13162	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. Is the director answering for the address? If so, go ahead. _________(?) He's not answering, he's not answering. 113 But I think it was affirmative of your report so I don't think it's necessary, but really, if you insist. So, I'm concluding a debate on the 83rd agenda. We're going to 84th, Ad. 84. Annual report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2011, material of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH (scheduled debate and statement at the 37th session of the House of Representatives, held on 06.12.2012.;
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13165	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So it would be bad if we hadn't opened a debate tonight about this report that all three parliaments are eagerly expecting. We saw what they were, what the attitude of the National Assembly of the RS was, and we saw how they treated this document. So, in Article 20. The Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council states that the institution is obliged, i.e. to deliver a report to parliament by 01.05. Here, we get a report something, about 8 months later and I think it's only because Parliament is not interested in the Viskoko Court and Prosecutorial Council, because Parliament has no opportunity to change anything, or to install anything, but to get it as a material with which it practically does not know what to do. What is the report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2011? He is controversial in many of his elements except that he has a desire to fascinate himself with his own size. On many other elements, it is very problematic and could be talked about from the point of view of Parliament which is dissatisfied with the work of BiH's judicial institutions. What exactly is the main problem? Among the recommendations set out in this document, there is not a single concrete recommendation to the Parliamentary Assembly, despite the fact that the most serious problems in the functioning of the judiciary and the prosecution, and despite the fact that this Parliament has spent a great deal of time and many hours and many sessions in the debate on the work of the BiH judiciary. In general, to say a few things in several passages, because this large material is not easy to analyze aloud. The part relating to old items - the Report does not speak in a single word about the results achieved. There is no word about which courts do not or do not respect 114 plans in solving old cases and which judges do not give the expected results. And that's what we all wanted to hear. There is also no information in which the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council controls the adoption and fulfillment of these plans and what has been taken against the president of courts that have no results. In the report there is also no answer to the question – how is it possible that 10 years after the reform there are unsolved cases 20 years old? The problem will be met soon by BiH when 8,000 cases, over 10 years old, are in front of the European Court of Human Rights, and it is answered, and BiH is responsible for the trial within an unreasonable period, and there was no mechanism to prevent anything in that part. The issue of responsibility for this situation in the judiciary must be resolved. The passage on the renovation of buildings is the most concrete part of the Viskoko Court and Prosecutorial Council report, and this chapter says that the High Court and Prosecutorial Council has become an investor of construction facilities. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council is completely autonomous without consulting anyone to direct donations according to criteria that do not exist and that this state does not control at all. As far as communal objects are concerned, the matter has already been seen here. That more than five years have been repeated in the reports, although the problem is in the focus of solving and that the problem will soon be resolved. But that problem remains unsolved. The problem of resolving municipal cases remains one of the most important issues in this report. The BiH court is a special topic that we have talked about a lot. In this section of the report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council which speaks of the Court, there is no information on the basis of which the overall assessment of the results of this institution's work could be given. But here, let's deal with something that might be interesting. It is alarming that the report says that 17 verdicts were made in a year's time by the War Crimes Department. There's no record of how many judges worked at the War Crimes Department, but we have information that four judicial councils are working and that's about 12 judges. So 12 judges in a year solve 17 cases or one judge slightly more than one case in a year. Is that called an effective judiciary? The judge I spoke to told me that this was unmarked in the history of the judiciary and that only ineffectiveness can be compared to The Hague court. They also say that in cantonal and county courts, one judge solves about 100 cases annually. If the BiH Court continues... this is the way the settlement will be done in 10 years, and then none of the perpetrators will be among the living. The Court also told us that the number of pending cases has increased by 7%. Fifty experienced judges work in the Court of BiH. With the administrative support they have no court in these areas, 4,000 pending cases have been registered. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has not given us an answer to the question why there are so many pending cases and why these are the worst results, what are the standards that apply to this Court. We didn't get an answer as to how it's possible with a court like this to achieve a trial strategy for war crimes. And a few words about the D.A.'s office. According to the Prosecutor's Office's 2011 report, 252 indictments were filed. So one prosecutor charges 6.3 in a year. So many charges are filed by one prosecutor in the district attorney's office in a month. The type and severity of crimes are here somewhere if terrorism and more complex objects of war crimes are excluded. In these 252 cases, the prosecutor's office has concluded a 131 plea agreement. That means there wasn't even a trial. That leaves every prosecutor with only three cases. The High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council did not give us an answer as to why, which is why such a drastic difference arises in the volume of work and results, and based on which results are estimated to be the work of prosecutors in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. 115 What I want to say in the end, and what we are witnessing, is an event that took place a few days ago - the election of a new chief prosecutor. It's amazing how the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council chooses new prosecutors. So these are prosecutors who never leave that place, neither come or go in a normal way. What are the criteria for these people who come to these places and who should show some result? And how they'll show the result if they don't have a single day of prosecution practice in the place they came to. So this report will not be able to help Parliament. We hope that, through structural dialogue, it will help in this segment to change the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and it all comes down to a measure that applies in other democratic countries as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13166	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13167	Thank you. In the report of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, which was discussed by the Commission, unfortunately, we do not have anything yet concrete that the Commission has recommended and that it has its own position, apart from votes 4 for and 3 abstentions. About the materials, it's me, I didn't go deep, I went through it for a while, so I'm not gonna say much, I'm just gonna do some basics. It makes sense to me if we had this report that we should have a report of the defendants so we could evaluate how these work much better. He had feedback. As a man, I think it would be a good thing, because this seems to me, therefore, to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. The Court and the Prosecutor There's no room. [[You don't understand anything.]] Because, in my opinion, it should, therefore, be one of the basic institutions of democracy, legislative, executive and judicial power. The court is in court, and the prosecutor and the two defendants are in the process. There's no such thing as the prosecutor's and the court's staff, the same as the one charged with the court and the prosecutor's. It's some logic that I, as a man, think basically, should, because in the book of Velimir Sriće, says - Japan is a country with 120 million inhabitants and no more lawyers, and the people would say fiscals, from Croatia, from a country with neither 5 million inhabitants. What's the reason? It's similar somewhere with BiH. So, gentlemen, where we spend energy, where our entrepreneurship, innovation, the game is marketable. So all we have are fissures that defend us from something that we ourselves are wasting our energy into something. Because it says where clear unequivocal laws are, precise in such an environment courts and lawyers naturally have much less to do. Now, that's my basic principle. And here they are in this report, they're in the report, so you made some recommendations. And I think this recommendation when it comes to it, and I've been asking the attorney's question of the e-signature bill, since I see no one here from the Ministry of Transport and Communications, so I think that, so the e-processing law has been passed. and no sublegal acts have been adopted, and therefore that law cannot be applied. And that would make the work much easier, the traffic of everything. Well, I mean, here's the ministry 116 I'm ordering from this place to do as soon as possible, if not, then maybe it'll be at some session of my parliamentary question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13168	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, most of my discussion will be to support my colleague, Majkić, who has elaborated it perfectly, but I have two things to set up. I'm going to react to one of course, it's true, but I'm going to make an inversion -- in 10 years, there won't be any perpetrators, now there's no witnesses, because they're dying. It's the biggest accident of the system. So, here is a fine list – technical possibilities, equipment, donations, I don't know what either. And I asked a parliamentary question and got an answer – who will compensate for the damage to the 4.5 million mark that was at the time, and now it's already bigger, to pay the damages, prosecutors who were unjustly imprisoned there and detained people without responsibility, and the Judicial and Prosecutor's Council did not take any sanctions against them? It was those strangers who were running away. Who's going to find them all over Europe and the world now? At least an apology should have come to say – wait, they came here, they did selective justice, they filed charges without any arguments and damaged the Budget. And in that budget, it wasn't even planned for those compensations to be made to people who did, so again, it was easier for them not to mention myself, to watch television, to read the newspaper, but they were separated from the family. So, these were terrible traumas and controversies for just the jurisdiction of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council or advice that he never took towards these people, and apparently they have some disciplinary council that he meets, so that Barašin when he no longer needed him like that, thank Bog so let them, then invent something else. And now, to make sure I don't forget, I don't mind, but this will be in the media, so the present president of the Judicial and Prosecutorial Council will say, "Here are the politicians who hit the independence of the judiciary." And it wasn't a shock for you to say thank you at least for only increasing your budget, the prosecution and the BiH Court of Justice. You're the only one who got it in that ghoul when no one paid enough attention so we wouldn't be a remethyling factor, because we're stuck on number 950 million, so you're the only one who's got the funding. What means? If you're paying back these damages for someone who works there, I don't know what kind of charges they're making, and I don't know what kind of convictions they're making. I'm not defending anyone. Various politicians and leaders have been defiling in front of that court, and nothing has been proven to anyone. Well, at least there's an apology. Here, we don't need politicians, but those people who were brought in. Well, then, since Parliament is the most responsible for budgeting, we should say -- hello people, 4.5 million are damaged by the Budget of BiH, where these funds are planned in which item, who will make up for it. So it's quite clear, and now to return to the painful issue of war crimes. In 2007, when Mr. Marinko Jurčević was a respected member of the prosecutor's office, I was looking for a public one, there's a stenogram here to make a five-year strategy to end this. And of course that's them at the big door, which the people would say, hitting, here's the strategy, here's everything, and you just heard from my colleague Majkić's data on these items. And who has such efficiency, and in what, not years, but decades, will this be solved? They never will. And you know, and this apparent love in everything, the adoption of 117 laws, the respect of entities, cantons, BiH, here I will say once, states, under the supposed signs, because I'm not giving it that form, and I'm not against BiH right now, so when is it going to be solved because it's the main stumbling block, under the supposed signs again, at least the necessary human trust. There is no dying, reconciliation is an individual act of everyone because this Parliament will never and no one in the world bring the law of love, to force me to love someone if I don't feel human love and attention to another fellow from another people. I speak as a sacrifice, a camper from every nation, not from this land, but from Iraq, Afghanistan, I do not know which other states, for me is sacred, for me is sacred before Bogo, before the people, before you fellows here. I'm sure I'm honest because I'm honest with you. But honesty cannot be achieved by reporting to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council – we received a donation, we go online with some data, we have the implementation of a system of digital identity management in the bh judiciary. Who cares, who cares? The people only hear the verdict tonight on some TV and say – they got two years in prison. You don't need to listen to the name and your last name needs to be reduced immediately. It's not some Srbin. That the Srbin has been in prison for 35 years. I am not saying that you influence judges and prosecutors, but you have to understand us because we do not represent ourselves here, we represent citizens, but here I will say openly – we represent Srbin from Republika Srpska who are completely unequal in everything in front of this Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office. And then you're surprised that we have a series of objections, so that we've been looking for various restructurings, and then we've come in with the EU, and we've been looking for time and termination. People realize we're unhappy. I don't want to say that I'm burdening my dissatisfaction with someone else who's responsible, I'm not the one. But it must not be respected for me either that I must not interfere in three things, allegedly an independent judiciary, judiciary and prosecution, the independence of the media and NGOs. I want to get involved because the people chose me. As you interfere, you make a request for us, so you push through, I said earlier, it increases in the budget. You can't do that, and you'll use it nicely. So, I could talk about this by morning, but there's no need of course I shouldn't, I know how to stop, we're completely dissatisfied because the High Court and Prosecutor's Council or the council didn't respond to their mission. Is there a lawyer, is there an ordinary man, is there a politician that I Novković speaking to you directly now, naming a man as BiH's chief prosecutor who has never written an indictment in his life, who has never spent a day in the prosecution? Oh, please, who are you going to convince? Here, you can tell me because I'm gonna say you're wrong, but whoever you're going to convince from the Serb people, who you're going to give from the Bosniak people, some of them have given him support, to convince him that you've respected all the criteria and the man without a day, I repeat that's the key, without a day's work in the prosecution, without being charged with the prosecution, and now I'm going to trust him, is it? Answer that question and I will tell you everything I've said so far, and there is nothing at your address, although it should be because you are the most responsible, at least equate your opinion, you have the right, and you say – people, this is the mistake that we had in man, appointed to that function, never raised, I repeat, the indictment, nor wrote. Could that be the BiH prosecutor? And it's this piece of Ivještaj we won't accept, so you write it a hundred times. This year you did well, last year you made that book a little bit better repainted, I guess you had the money, and for the next one we gave you a little bit more, so you're going to do a little thicker cover again, but this doesn't mean anything to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13170	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, the debate. Here you go. 118
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13171	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The Constitutional Commission has considered this Report and, in accordance with what Parliament's powers are, under the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, it has received this report and forwarded it to the Parliamentary Assembly and our proposal that the Parliamentary Assembly of this Report also take note of this report, because it is maximum, i.e. only what the Parliamentary Assembly can do. I read the report. I carefully analysed the report and specifically the recommendations made to the executive bodies, the legislative authorities and the judicial authorities. And the purpose of this report, and this is the link between the judicial and legislative authorities, is that we as a legislative authority, reviewing this report, listening to this report, analysing the recommendations, we see what it is to us, what we need to do, to make this system work as successfully as possible. So, the system of judicial authority. So, here, there are recommendations concerning both the material financial sides and recommendations for improving work in all segments, but I would particularly like to highlight recommendations concerning the future budgeting of BiH's judicial authorities and the role of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council on the plan, as well as recommendations concerning the independence of the BiH judiciary system. Because it seems to me, given all this that has been announced in BiH, that we are expected to have serious discussions on this topic in the coming period. So in that context, I support this report, I take it into consideration, I support the recommendations, and I suggest we do what is up to us, and as indicated in these recommendations. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13172	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13173	Thank you, Chairman. Here, a little bit of an analysis and looking at this report from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, I think that, this is one correct report and that it's a record of both work and progress in the High Court and Prosecutor's Council. On the side of what some colleagues think when it comes to this, it was about the Court of BiH, because the BiH Court is already having a debate for a year, so it is no wonder it is tonight. Anyway, let my observations and possibly recommendations, because I see when court disputes are settled, the most decided verdicts are conditional or conditional, as it says here. I think, Mr. Novković, that those one 80% of the prisons are made, slightly less monetary and least judgmental. Mine isn't, and I don't know enough about that matter, that I am speaking, but what verdict was to be passed, but given that the law was passed, that even a prison sentence could be replaced by a 100-mark fine per day, I think it's someone who came up with it very justifiably, very rationally, and for the benefit of all BiH citizens. If someone committed general or economic crime and got some kind of parole, what does society have to do with it? And I think that's where they broke up on the route, what counterpart Lijanović Mladen was saying, lawyers, not to say judges, prosecutors satisfied and that accused, parole I don't know since 15 119 months, with a probation period of 24 months or continuing to do jobs like he did, which we see little, little, so some police actions are made of the opportunity for these crimes, less always the same person. Here we had a good example yesterday or the day before yesterday in Western Herzegovina, of those names, that's how I recognize 80% of them repeating themselves. Not now to say that they need to be convicted of some long-standing punishments, but I think here when it comes to these judgments, you do a little analysis, so you'll see if there's just been some kind of indictments, where the prosecution costs us, is whether, in fact, they cost us a lot of debates, judges and prosecutors have relatively high incomes, which are beyond this Law of Payments and Receipts in institutions. They're meant to have special coefficients, special regressions, warm meals, so I think they should count not on charging the budget, but not even damage it in this way. Because I'm saying, it seems too much to me here when you analyze, we have conditional rulings. And what I saw at the end of this report of yours, when it comes to these outdated cases, the truth doesn't have them on this number of cases, when I looked through the entire BiH judiciary, all levels, there aren't many. But it would be very interesting to see, these items that are obsolete and what they are doing, what steps to take so that we don't get a court case out of date, in court. So it's already some activity, some inaccessibility. One day they'll be available. There's something we can't amnesty about whether or not we have some laws in the neighborhood, and also with us, that something can't get old. So, I think that this work of the Court can be fixed here, too, this is one very step-by-step, extensive report, but I say all the courts and prosecutors and I say the intersection here is something that I've noticed, not just that we have potential ineffectiveness. I noticed, I don't know, since you appoint both judges and prosecutors, that in certain counties of the same population or population, we don't have a very balanced number of prosecutors and judges. Take a look at Central Bosnia and Herzegovina-Neretva County, I think those two canons have in 5 or 10 thousand inhabitants per number, I think there's a big difference. Well, a little bit of these judges' effects. Here, some kind of more similar and deeper analysis, on your part and measures in that direction... a few tips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13174	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13175	Thank you, Chairman. I'll say a few words about the work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Namely, worrying results are in the efficiency of the work of the courts, as well as the prosecution. It's a disease that's been transmitted by inerts for dozens of years in our space. So that the courts and the prosecutions are ineffective, that they are poorly controlled and that they are not responsible. So the weak link is in the responsibility and the lack of control of the courts. Namely, the entire system is cataractly set up, the entire system. What's the nakarad system in? So I'm the High Court and Prosecution Council was set up. Please, that structure is made up of prosecutors and judges mostly, with two lawyers, one representative of the Council of Ministers, one of this House. So when you see that structure, there's a violation of that fundamental, Latin one principle – the nemo judex incauza sua. You see, management has control, judicial control, and it's believed to be a major step in the control of the administration when it's received judicial control. Why? Because management controls itself. There is political control, i.e. 120 parliamentary controls, and therefore, this judicial structure, prosecutors, judges, and lawyers, so it's an interesting group. It's impossible for him to work well, independently and impartially, almost impossible. It may be in the most developed country, Sweden, where the conscience is high, high level of consciousness on these issues, etc. It is certain that even in Sweden they would not rely in this way, that such a structure would be. I was talking today about procedures and rules, so those that have to be respected and to go away from people, because this subjectivism is always almost everywhere. And it cannot be excluded that the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council can be neutral in certain situations. And crow crow eyes don't dig, that old saying. So the structure itself is incompatible and cannot survive. I hope that in this reform that part will change, given that it is unsustainable. The other day I listened to Mr. Pajić who's been with Eždaun for a long time, astonishing his thoughts on this plan, astonishing all of us. So this isn't, this isn't just about RS or this and that people, these are things universal that have to be accepted. That the prosecutor and the judge, the prosecutor of the party in the process, couldn't name judges and prosecutors together. That's impossible. It's one of the top principles that the international community has applied here. And we are suffering it and we are not getting up, so this Parliament is so powerless, it cannot change it. So it is not true that this Parliament cannot control the judiciary, it absolutely controls the legal rules. So it can change the law and determine the way judges choose, determine such that there is no possibility of a clan way of thinking in courts, and there is, therefore, there are some people who, at least I know, so I know these facts that have competed for judges, have not passed, and these are extremely honest people. So, to the honorable people of Banja Luka, they failed, some of them managed not to say, at least by my knowledge, the left guys, so to get into that structure. So that's one thing. The second thing is that we have violated the principle of the division of power in the treatment of the judiciary. So that fundamental principle of the rule of law, where one government controls another, is balanced between governments, not given absolute independence, or independence of courts. The judge is independent in his work. And no one can interfere in the work of a judge when deciding on a case, but the courts are not outside the context of a state structure, it's a state government, it has to be controlled. Well, this Council has to be kind of controlled, too. So there's no institution in one state structure, that it's not controlled, it doesn't exist. You see other systems, comparative systems, so you'll see that the judiciary is controlled, all in its own way, adapting, how it's best under the given circumstances and given ambience. So we have it out of control, which is also illegal. Foreign judges, I didn't know there was a foreign judge in the High Court and Prosecution Council, it seems to me there is. Under the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, I have not seen anywhere that he can be a member of a judicial assembly, the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. So what, then, is how the international community was doing to protect the law here. So first to protect the law. If she forced it, it's absurd. What are we doing in the first place, where are we, at what stage of social development, that judges in the High Court and Prosecution are not provided by law? So please. Then that man controls the High Court and Prosecution Council if that's the case, at least according to my information, that's how it is. The second question is, what kind of judiciary are we going to have? Please, private, completed candidates, in private colleges, can pass a judicial exam and can be hired as judges. At least so far, we've had people who've learned something in college, and now, what are we going to have now? So I see some quality that can come, but with a fundamental, fundamental reform of the judiciary as a whole. And I'm not talking about taking down, transferring jurisdiction, etc. but we need to agree on those 121 things that are now existing, but to improve the quality of these legislations, because without that I do not know, we will have such a judiciary, which indeed in some segments, not in some but in many segments does not work, or works very inefficiently. This data, well, it's amazing, it's amazing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13176	Thank you. Dear representative Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13177	I will not comment on this report from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, because a lot of colleagues have already said that, I will just briefly tell us what the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is, such are our judges and prosecutors in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. I've come to ask the President of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council to answer one question. Namely, when considering one of the previous reports of your institution, it has been found that the 16th member of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is a Norvežanin Sven Urke, who your predecessor said will be resolved very soon and will no longer work at the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. In my knowledge, it hasn't happened until today. And on the knowledge of those who are excellent at knowing the opportunities within the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, this person is also very influential, in some way the gray eminence in the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and, more yet, more debateable is, he is considered a complete patron in financial and donor terms within the High and Judicial Prosecutor's Council. I ask you to explain the status of that person and that person, if he is still a member of the Council.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13178	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13179	Thank you, Mr. President. It always asks me the question, when some material that comes to Parliament, we just need to take it to the knowledge, what do we even include in the agenda? So he can get to our office, we can read it, whoever reads has received knowledge, if he wants to know, whoever doesn't want to read, doesn't even have to receive knowledge, etc. What's the point of this debate? So can we, as the most legislative body in BiH, influence in any way, in anything that we think is not good in the BiH judiciary system? I asked a parliamentary question this morning, and I am glad that several other colleagues have now been able to comment through this debate, through earlier discussions on a similar subject and issues raised to representatives of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, we have been given the answer that the High Fatal and Prosecutorial Council is responsible to the public, which is not bad. All of us should, either we are or we are not responsible for that same 122 public. What's left of me is always unclear, how does that responsibility manifest? In what way is this responsibility manifested to the public, this sensitivity to the public? Because I happen to mean this, as a representative in this House, by chance, by looking at some kind of television show, which was accidentally dedicated to the entire part of its particular activities by the judicial authorities in one of our neighbouring states, heard through the conversation of some of these public employees, that these days and our High Court and Prosecutorial Council, were elected by the chief prosecutor and the public, none of whom are MPs in Parliament, one is a journalist, one is a representative of an NGO sector, another is some sort of expert consultant for all areas, etc. But they're public representatives and completely independent, so they're not politicians. One of them said it all together – so people I can't believe, our Fate and Prosecution Council elected a chief prosecutor who doesn't have 15 seconds of experience in the prosecution's affairs. I have to say, I didn't believe it, to be honest, because I know everything gets published. After I heard that information, then I asked a little, asked around, and then I came up with this very interesting knowledge. Since I was interested in what kind of reference should be given to the chief prosecutor of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, it is normal that I took the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH and for a wonderful miracle, it is prescribed in this zakon that the BiH prosecutor's office must be a graduate lawyer with at least 5 years of working experience. That's not bad, it's an important position in the BiH prosecutor's office. But none of the letters, which are to be met by the prosecutor in the BiH prosecutor's office, are prescribed anywhere, particularly there are no letters to be met by the chief prosecutor in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. And I have concluded that it could be any chief prosecutor, deputy chief prosecutor or prosecutor in the BiH Prosecutor's Office. If it wasn't the highest prosecutor's institution in the BiH judiciary system, we could look at it with a little less caution. But what can we expect from those lower positions? It's supposed to be cream, so in the district in the prosecution business, that's the top of the peak, so we don't have any further. We didn't even predict there that he had to be a graduate lawyer. And then I asked the question today, I wonder what a man recommends? If it's not an experience, professionally, professionally, like this, which is why it's so much better, and among the candidates I've heard there were several who have over 10 years of prosecutorial experience. What are the criteria? And how will this responsibility be manifested to the public, not to me, but to the public, who also, even with more disgust, sees what happens? If we look further at the composition of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and the appointments, especially in several positions, means in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, we will see that few of them were members of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, and that the prosecutors are... and are not well honored in progress in office. Perhaps that's the way to do it, perhaps, but this one, I'm not sure that all the prosecution's brains are concentrated or at least 70%, if you look at the BiH Prosecutor's Office's composition in the Sarajevo region. And that's interesting too, there's obviously no prosecutor in the centre of Bosnia, on the Zanička-Doboj canton, Tuzlan canton, to this, Herzegovic-Neretva, Herceg-Bosnian, etc. I'm talking about cantons in the Federation, there's no chance in RS space either. Because it's interesting that most prosecutors, so in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the majority is significant from the Sarajevo Canton area. Take care of this, it's very serious, I, uh, don't belong in the category of those who don't want both the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Court of Justice very badly and efficiently. So I want to set an example for everyone else in BiH. But I'm afraid with this selection, this kind of human selection, this is how we're far from it. So we're far from it, because here if we don't already have the instruments, and I don't know here by law we don't have, I agree, that we're influencing certain things that we obviously see aren't office, that they're changing, how is it just going to change the public to which, as a matter of fact, the High Judicial and Prosecution Council fits, how is it going to affect that certain things change? 123 I won't speak, someone said he was satisfied with the fact that the number of unsolved, old unsolved items. So watch out, we can be satisfied with the fact that we're even alive, each of us, that's the first, is whether. Well, then we can be satisfied... I mean, this one, that we have so many pending cases of this, through these stories of successful judicial reform, of total independence and of when everything is added together, which is not insignificant, the citizens of this country, the country's taxpayers for the judiciary single out over 200 million KMs. Maybe someone thinks it's small. So maybe, but this one, I haven't seen even this one here, mostly we are, judging by my experience, in this House, all that has come, when it comes to both the Prosecutor's Office and the Court and the High Court of Justice and the D.A.'s Council, the Bianca approved, without even a single remark that one should be reduced. So as much as it's wanted, we've been giving so much. Here's probably for a particular reason to someone, we didn't even give ourselves away so that someone wouldn't dare accuse us of this, that here we wouldn't let the Court and the D.A.'s office work. And I'm gonna have to do this one, even though I thought I would, but I will. I think these final decisions have joined the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council in the agreement, I'll say this, the SDP, this SNSD, when it comes to the prosecution, because it has given an enormously large argument that there really needs to be something that needs to be changed sooner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13180	Thank you. The debate of the MPs is exhausted, he's not answering. The president or yes, okay, so the chairman of the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, Mr. Milorad Novković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13181	Very esteemed and esteemed MPs, it is my honor and pleasure that you have discussed the report of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council for 2011 and I am quite sure that your discussions, comments are useful for the further work of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and judicial institutions in BiH. I will answer only one of your questions very briefly, for what I am responsible for. A report by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council for 2011 was delivered within the legal deadline. When it comes to the control of the solving of old cases, it is fully implemented by the High Court and Prosecutor's Council and we know exactly how many judges are dealt with by the old cases monthly, what the President of the Court does, and because of this, some of the presidents of the courts have lost their positions. So control is fully respected. When it comes to municipal cases, the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council has been in the debate for several years, in its comments, it argues that these cases are being removed from the work of the courts. 70% of the items that are not finished are waiting for execution. I'm almost entirely sure they'll never be executed for the following reasons. We've got a lot of poor people, we've got a lot of unemployed people, the Institute of Precincts has become more worthless. Niko buys used TVs anymore, radios, tables, chairs, no more goats to prey, no more cows, etc., which was the subject of execution. So there's no property and there's something about it that needs to be done and done. These days, we've already come up with a few proposals in structural dialogue, and we're sure to come up with concrete proposals. We have already drawn up one text of the law on the provision and collection of utility 124 services. Probably sometime in January, we'll deliver it to the justice ministries, governments, and they'll decide on what's the fate of it. When it comes to the BiH Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office, I am concerned about the work of these judicial institutions. Not in 10 years, but in many years, the cases contained in these judicial institutions will not be processed if they are resolved at this pace they are now being dealt with. I personally, as President of the Council, have put forth a great deal of effort and effort in this direction for the last four years. I've raised a lot of questions in structural dialogue, and it seems to have been an echo. A good part of these cases is already being transferred to the entity judiciary. As long as the district and cantonal courts and prosecutors, the Brcko District Court is not fully involved in resolving these cases, the BiH Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office themselves are objectively unable to complete thousands of cases. Is one subject supposed to be working for a year, half a year, two years, it's a matter of professional evaluation, and I've raised a few questions in that direction. We, as President of the Council and Chairman of the Supervisory Body, have proposed for 4 years 72 conclusions, or recommendations, every three months we submit a report on our work to the Council of Ministers. Only the judiciary does not participate in the processing of war crimes cases, many entities listed in the War Crimes Procedure Strategy have to work together and synchronised. In all these proposals and conclusions, it is precisely who has fulfilled his mission, to what extent and what should be done for war crimes cases to be prosecuted. Unfortunately, I think a certain number of subjects will solve biology, which is very bad. And in that direction, I'm concerned and I can't provide here, and I won't, as President of the Council, with optimistic news. Here's what's going on. All the items we've transferred have been transferred for the last eight months more than for the previous six years. For 2013, parliaments, or governments, have not provided funds to resolve these cases. When it comes to the election of BiH's chief prosecutor, he was elected by the majority. There was no consensus. The majority decisions in the Council are valued as well as in Parliament. I'm a naturalist, so I respect the decisions of every body that makes, so I'm going to respect this decision. When it comes to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, it has its own certain shortcomings, very respected and esteemed MPs, the Law on the High Court and Prosecutor's Council does not bring but brings this House. Therefore, I personally placed four years ago a number of objections to the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. The law on the BiH Court of Justice, the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, is being passed here. We, from the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, tabled a proposal four years ago, reasoned, that the division of the BiH Court of Justice to the Court of BiH and the Court of Appeal of BiH should be carried out, the issue is now being restarted in a structural dialogue. I think there will be some progress here. When it comes to an outdated number of criminal cases, there are objective reasons why the case cannot be completed. It's not easily accessible to the accused court and it's coming, it's inevitable that it comes to antiquity. No criminal law, not in any state, has neglected the Institute of Obsolescence. So the laws have to be human, they can't hang on to someone's constant threat, their whole lives. It is known that the categorization of a certain type of crime, there are crimes that are less socially dangerous, there before and the appearance of antiquity. There are cases where antiquities occurred for subjective reasons, and there have already been some responsible for it. And any case that goes out of date, on any basis, comes to the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, and is being discussed in the Department of Justice and the Disciplinary Prosecutor's Office. 125 The structure and composition of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council has been laid down by law. I hope that in the coming period we will make progress in the adoption of the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council as well as other laws. We all aim to make progress and have an effective judiciary. I'm personally concerned, none of you pointed it out, and I'm going to potentiate it. We didn't provide equality for the citizens before the law. That's what gets me the most. There's nothing I can do, we can all do it together. In that direction back 3 years we have done everything and tried and through structural dialogue to do it and I hope for the next period that this will be achieved, because some things have already been moved, so to speak, from one state of static. When it comes to membership of an international member of the Council of Sven Marius Urk, he is the 16th member of the Council. The 16th member of the Council does not exist in the VSTS Act, he was appointed a member of the High Representative's Decision, his mandate expires on 31.12.2012. However, as much as you have made the remarks, I respect the remarks and I will try to do everything that we can as I have done so far to remove it, but still in the work of the courts and prosecutors has made some progress, certainly profutures that this will be much better in the future and it seems to me that structural dialogue is the right place where certain questions about the judiciary have been raised and nothing is more like it was before and I think it will end in a very successful way. When it comes to parole and fines. I've worked 37 years in the judiciary, mostly as a judge, I've always been against it to say, we have to tighten the criminal policy now or we've got to cut it down a lot. Penalty policy should have one of its own established levels and only in this way will we provide legal certainty for the citizens. Very respected and esteemed MPs, I was a judge, when we were invited to meetings in the evening and when it is said about this and this type of crime must increase the sentence, there are no conditional convictions. Whoever accepted it was wrong, and his conscience is not pure. Penalty policy, parole, fines should be left to judges, and whatever the greater independence of the judge is, the greater responsibility, the more the wrongdoer will be. I hope that in the next period we will build such a Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council or on the Judicial Council, or the Prosecutor's Council, you will decide on this, that joint levers of control and work exist between judicial institutions, i.e. the Council of Legislative and Executive Authorities, and only in this way can the legal state be provided and legal certainty can be provided for citizens, which is very important and very important. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13182	I thank Mr. Novković. I'm closing the discussion on the 84th agenda. We're going to the 85th item of the agenda, Ad. 85. Fourth report on the implementation of measures to improve business conditions in BiH's agricultural production and food industry with Appendix Report I'm opening a debate. Here you go. 126 The first one was registered by MP Nermin Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13184	Mr. Chairman, allow me to greet you, you and everyone present. In early June this year, the House adopted a third report on the implementation of measures to improve business conditions in BiH's agricultural production and food industry. And on that occasion we voted one conclusion, which is that it is the Council of Ministers' duty to quantify within 60 days the results of the measures established by the Report. And now here on the tables we have this fourth report with 25 measures shown. When we look at the dynamics of the realization of these 25 measures we can't quite be satisfied, because it was to be expected by the end of this year, so by December 31st, at least we respect all 25 measures. When we analyse this Report, we can see over 50% of the measures that have been implemented, and 10 measures have been partially implemented, where I will specifically point to one measure, which is the creation of the BiH Stock Reserve Strategy, which is also partially implemented. 3 measures are not implemented at the initial stage, which is the formation of two commissions, and this is the Commission's view of the data on cross-border traffic of goods, the declaration of the type of quantity and price of goods, flows and intentions of imported goods, the regularity of scales, the verification of the regularity of EUR 1 and forms, the proposal of a smaller number of border crossings for agricultural products that would in fact work inappropriately in full capacity, as well as the establishment of a Commission which will analyse the comments of producers in BiH, exporters especially in CEFTA countries and make recommendations for improving trade relations.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13185	I just want to remind you that within this point and by the end of the session, I am limiting the debate to three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13186	Okay. I must also mention the Commission's work to propose measures to protect domestic production, which in fact did not work during this last period, and during 2009 and 2010, it was hard to work precisely because of the financial resources. Otherwise, the inability to implement these measures is due to a lack of budget resources to finance the work of those commissions.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13187	Thank you, time's up.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13188	All right, thanks.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13189	The following entry was made for the discussion by MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13190	Thank you. It doesn't take me three minutes usually, I'll finish it. 127 We have the Fourth Report and the Commission's conclusions are the same as for the Third Report. So obviously we're repeating the same mistake, and it's not a mistake if it's repeated, it's just a mistake if it's repeated, we're doing it. And the key three things at the level of the BiH state that in this area are now valid at this point, are right now [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13191	I will only ask, please allow the MP to present what he has. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13192	Therefore, the establishment of a paying agency at country level, measures to protect domestic production, exports of products of plant and animal origin. It's three key things, not to improve, but to preserve what little we have. And the establishment of a paying agency, here we have in the report, is said to currently have two proposals... the payment structure. So there are no two proposals, it's obvious, we know what a political problem is, and it's going to cost us all, it's going to cost us all our citizens and it's costing us all. We're down 4% this year, and next year maybe 4.5. It's gonna take 10, 20, 30 years to get to zero. The measures to protect domestic production, we had an initiative here, and we saw that the commission that was to monitor it said there was no means. I'm here and I suggested that funds be provided at the Ministry of Foreign Trade, not done, so there's probably nothing of it either. Exports of the product of plant and animal origin of the Council of Ministers, the chairman promised me here when he was appointed to, on his word, be completed. Here I believe, he said, people bind to the word, here I believe it will end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13193	Thank you. We're closing the discussion on the 85th item of the agenda. We're moving on to the 86th agenda, Ad. 86. A review of the initiative of MP Šefik Džaferović from the 36th session of the House of Representatives held in 22.11.2012, which reads: "I propose that the following information of the BiH Council of Ministers be discussed at the meeting of the House of Representatives: (a) Information on implementation of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH, (b) Information on the state of the labour market in BiH and the proposal for measures to be taken to reduce unemployment" As competent to consider this initiative, the College has designated a Constitutional Commission. The committee responsible delivered its opinion on the initiative on 17 December 2012. I'm opening a debate. 128 There are no reports for discussion. I'm closing the debate. I'm sorry, Šefik Džaferović, for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13195	I'm sorry I'm a little late, but you're right. You're on time. So it's about whether this is going to be on the agenda or not, so that's the point, that's why I didn't answer. But let me say, however, that if you decide, so as the House, that this should be on the agenda, then it should be prepared, it should be called by the promoter here, the information is good and I think this is useful information that we need to discuss in the BiH Parliament. But certainly when, if that happens, you decide who will be invited, you have to take a good look at the Council of Ministers who is in charge of both one and the other, we will need it here in these discussions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13196	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 87th agenda, Ad. 87. Report by the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Šemsudin Mehmedović on the debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of Nermin Purić as a member of the Joint Committee on European Integration, which reads: "The Joint Commission for the Control of the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH is tasked with harmonising its work with the law" The College's commission failed to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Mehmedović. You got the report. There is no debate within this point. And before we move to point 88, I suggest that the House declare itself that the debate on points 88 to 92, including the 92nd agenda, is a matter of giving consent to ratifying the agreement. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 19 votes in favour of, 3 votes against, without abstentions, with enough entity majority, we adopt this proposal, so that we can pool the debate on points 88 to 92. Ad. 88. - 92. Granting consent
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13202	What's he not doing? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You weren't...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13204	Let's wait a little while to see this technical problem, there's about one voter seat. Shall we do it again then? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13205	He doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13206	We don't have to, so it won't change anything. 131 I find that with 30 votes for, without votes against, with sufficient entity majority, we also adopted the 3rd conclusion. [[Common discussion]] He can't, he can't do four, I'll read you four, so you tell him yourself. Therefore, the conclusion number 4 reads as follows: The Committee for Finance and the Budget of the House of Representatives asks the House of Representatives to hold a thematic session to discuss the audit reports on the financial operations of BiH institutions with the mandatory presence of all members of the BiH Council of Ministers, the Office for the Review of BiH and representatives of nine institutions which were the subject of detailed analysis in the Committee. So the adoption of the agenda and the decision to discuss these points in this way today, we have actually rejected this conclusion. And that's why I say... (?) No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13210	12 and 13.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13211	...isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13212	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13213	So I'm realizing that we've adopted these conclusions from 5 to 11. And now I suggest we vote again on these conclusions 12 and 13 in the package.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13214	It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13215	Individually, since there are two conclusions we won't lose much time. So, I say my point, this conclusion is once we adopt the Budget and reject the conclusions is also groundless. I invite you all to vote on conclusion number 12. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 11 votes for, 15 against and 6 abstentions, this conclusion has not received the necessary support. We're voting on conclusion number 13, which, I say, is in the same. Prepare to vote on Conclusion 13. Vote now. I find that with 10 votes in favour, 18 votes against and five abstentions, even 13 has not received support. We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Petar Kunić. Should I read it? _________(?) You don't have to. 133 Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 25 votes in favour of, 6 against, 2 abstentions, enough entity majority, the conclusion of MP Petar Kunić was adopted. We're moving on to point 73. – Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for the period January-June 2012. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I agree that with 32 votes for, 1 against, 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we adopted the report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for the period January-June 2012. We are going to vote on point 74. – Report on the impact review carried out on the subject: "Higher Annual Capital Investments of the BiH Institution". We are voting on adoption with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget and the conclusion contained in it. Should I read the conclusion? Prepare to vote. Vote now. I conclude that with 32 votes for, 1 against, 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we adopted the Report on the Review of Impact on the subject: "Higher Annual Capital Investments of the BiH Institution". We move to a statement on the 75th item of the agenda – Report on the review of the impact carried out on the subject: "The management of the rolling stock in BiH institutions". We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that with 32 votes for, 1 against, 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we adopted the Report on the Review of Impact on the subject: "The Management of the Railway Park in BiH Institutions". We move on to the declaration of point 76. – The request of the BiH Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. Reformed application for procedure based on requests from the Council of Ministers. We're voting on a request for a shortened procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that with 27 votes in favour, 6 against and 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we have adopted a shortened procedure to consider the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of BiH institutions. 134 We move to the 77th item of the agenda – The request of MPs Dušanka Majkić, Beriz Belkić and Niko Lozančić to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption under the shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. We're voting on a request for a shortened procedure. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 20 votes in favour of, five against, eight abstentions, but without enough entity majority from the Federation. So,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13217	I'm expressing my suspicion that we should repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13218	So, we question the vice-president and repeat the vote. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that with 25 votes in favour of, 6 votes against, 3 abstentions, with enough entity majority, we have adopted a shortened procedure for this Amendment Law and Supplements to the Anti-Corruption Agency Act and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. We move to the 78th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Labour in BiH institutions, Proposer: Committee for Gender Equality (second reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that with 33 votes for and 1 against, without abstentions, with enough entity majority, we have adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the work of BiH institutions. We move to point 79 – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, Proposer: Committee for Gender Equality (second reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that with 32 votes in favour, without votes against, with 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions. 135 We move to a statement on the 80th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and Other Measures of BiH, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 22 votes in favour, without votes against, 12 abstentions, but without enough entity majority from the RS entity, we have not adopted a bill amending the Law establishing the Institute for the Implementation of Criminal Sanctions, Detentions and other measures in BiH. An ex post statement. _________(?) Is there any doubt?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13219	It's all legal.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13220	No Niko has expressed any doubt. So, we move to a statement on the 81st item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the BiH Judicial Police, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that with 32 votes in favour, without votes against and 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we adopted the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the BiH Judicial Police in the first reading. We move to a statement on the 82nd item of the agenda – Report on the Office's work to discuss BiH's complaints in 2011. First, we vote on the Commission's proposal for a conclusion. So, the adoption of the report with the conclusion of the Committee. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that with 33 votes in favour, without votes against, without abstention, with enough entity majority, we adopted a report on the work of the BiH Appeal Office in 2011. We now need to make a statement about the conclusion of Representative Milorad Živković. Should I read it? _________(?) You don't have to. 136 Prepare to declare the conclusion of Representative Milorad Živković. Vote now. I conclude that with 26 votes in favour of, 7 votes against, 1 abstention with enough entity majority, the conclusion of MP Milorad Živković was adopted. We move to a statement on the 83rd item of the agenda – Report on the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the priorities set out in the European Partnership with BiH 2008-2012 document. We're voting for adoption of the report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that with 26 votes for, without votes against, with 7 abstentions, with enough entity majority, we adopted the Report on the implementation of the action plan for the implementation of the priorities set out in the European Partnership with BiH document 2008-2012. We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović, who, should I read? You don't have to. So prepare to vote on this conclusion. Vote now.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13222	Are we voting on the conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13223	On the conclusion of MP Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović. I find that with 22 votes in favour of, 1 vote against, 10 abstentions, but without enough entity majority from the RS entity, this conclusion did not get the necessary majority. It's an ex-consensual match. We vote on point 84. – Annual report by the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH for 2011. We're voting on receiving the report's knowledge. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 18 votes for, 15 votes against, 1 abstention, but without the necessary entity majority from the RS entity, in this round this report is not...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13224	As far as I'm concerned, this is clean, we can do it now.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13225	A colleague. 137
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13226	After all, there are no SDS people, it's a shame they don't vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13227	A subsequent statement on point 84. We are going to vote on point 85. – Fourth report on the implementation of measures to improve the conditions of business in agricultural production and the BiH food industry with the Appendix to the Report. We vote on the adoption of the Report with the Appendix to the Report and the Opinion of the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs and the conclusion contained therein. Should I read the conclusion? Prepare to vote. Vote now I agree that with 33 votes in favour, with no votes against and 1 abstentioned, sufficient entity majority, we adopted the Fourth report on the implementation of measures to improve the conditions of business in agricultural production and the food industry in BiH with the Supplement to the Report. We move to a statement on the 86th item of the agenda – Considering the initiative of MP Šefik Džaferović from the 36th session of the House of Representatives, held on 22.11.2012, which reads: "I propose that the following information of the BiH Council of Ministers is discussed at the meeting of the House of Representatives: a) Information on the implementation of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in Bosnia and Herzegovina and b) Information on the state of the labour market in BiH and the proposal for measures to be taken to reduce unemployment". We're voting on the adoption of the Initiative. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that with 24 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 1 abstention, but without the necessary entity majority from the RS entity, we did not support the adoption of this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13228	Round two, so the Šefik wouldn't be in suspense...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-12-18-0.u13229	So, the College's decision is that we go straight to the second round, so prepare for a statement on this initiative in the second round of voting. Vote now. I find that with 23 votes in favour of, 10 votes against, one abstention, but with 2'3 against from the RS entity, this initiative has not been adopted. 138 We move on to the 87th item of the agenda – Report of the College's Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović for the debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of Nermin Purić as a member of the Joint Commission for European Integration, which reads: "The Joint Commission for the Control of the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency of BiH is tasked with harmonising its work with the law". We are voting in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with nine votes to, 22 votes against, so without the general majority, this conclusion is not accepted. So now we're going to vote from points 88 to 92. First of all, I would like to put the motion to vote so that we can declare ourselves in the package on points 88 to 92. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I find that with 29 votes in favour of, 3 against, 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we have decided to declare the ratification of these agreements in the package from 88 to 92. Prepare now a vote on ratification of these agreements. Vote now. I find that with 31 votes for, 1 against, 2 abstentions, with sufficient entity majority, we have ratified agreements from 88 to 92. I'm closing the 39th session of the House of Representatives. I note that the 40th session of the House of Representatives was planned for 3 January 2013. I also take this opportunity to congratulate all BiH citizens on the coming holidays, the Židov of Hanuk holiday, the believers of Catholic and Orthodox religions of the performing Christmas holidays, and everyone happy New 2013. And thank you for your cooperation and your happy trip, be careful of the snow. Session completed at 8:50 a.m.
