ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12126	Ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, honored guests, I am opening the 36th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of NGOs and media representatives. The meeting was also called by the head director of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency and the main auditor of the BiH Institutions Audit Office and the chairman of the BiH Radio Television Management Board to discuss material from their jurisdiction. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. The absence was justified by the esteemed representative Lazar Prodanović. According to the information provided by the session, 38 prisoners are present, including the required entity majority. I have, therefore, an intervention, probably a business one, Mr. Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12127	Dear Chairman, co-chairing, colleagues and fellow MPs and others present in the O.R., I would like to warmly welcome you. Chairman You have received one proposal for a conclusion concerning today's House of Representatives meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly, behind which six parties stand – SDP, SNSD, HDZ, SBB, SDS and HDZ 1990, which we propose to extend the 36th session of the House of Representatives for 22.11. In the light of this proposal, we conclude that the process of reconstruction of the parliamentary majority is at the state level at the final stage, and that in the coming days an agreement on programme project and staff solutions will be finalised, and therefore we believe that it is appropriate for today's session to be extended until the next session is held, the calendar of the meeting of the House of Representatives, which is 22. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12128	Thank you. 2 No more reported for discussion. I want to inform Dom, so that I got signed, forgive Mr. Beriz Belkić for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12129	Well, here's the thing, though, this doesn't go exactly what they say... Parliament fell. So, I'm not questioning the correctness and possibility of a business to suggest such a conclusion and I'm not questioning, of course there are hands that can vote on it. However, I am expressing real concern and one discomfort, so with this unhappiness, that this has really crossed all the boundaries. So now we're postponing to 22, that five months, six, we're doing nothing people. I understand the problems of the agreement, the public has been informed that programming project co-operation, the new parliamentary majority here and so on, this morning you bring us here and you just say thank you, goodbye, come in 22. Well, this really doesn't make sense. I know you can do all that, but if I say anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12130	I thank the honourable representative, Mr Beriz Belkić, only I cannot accept the qualification that Parliament is not working for months. We had a session a few weeks ago, so we had over 20 agenda points that were very important. Therefore, I respect that, in any case, everyone's views but I cannot accept that qualification at the expense of Parliament. Here you go, dear representative Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, on behalf of the SDA Club, I express, to say the least, a surprise. Yesterday we had an extended college of this House and we talked about the agenda and about any additions, changes to the virgin order, and yesterday at 3:00 we could make the same conclusion. Of course, I do not dispute the right of fellow Magazinović and the right of those on behalf of whom he has brought this to this House today, but indeed to call Parliament today knowing that it will not happen with such a general agenda as we have. Well, I guess there are points around here that don't need the consent of the new parliamentary majority, which we already have attitudes about, and it's irrelevant that after the anthem we end the session right now. The process of forming power will flow as it flows. We know how this Council of Ministers was formed and how it took us 15 months to conclude the Council of Ministers. Some processes in Parliament regarding delegations and the overall work of Parliament have not yet been completed. So really our concern for the whole situation and we call on those who are responsible, who are here and prolonging this session, to think carefully about the consequences that can arise. I suggest that, here is Mr Magazinović's proposal, that we still use today's session and at least open the agenda or try to resolve certain issues, not just after 15 minutes here today. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12132	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12133	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. You know that at the last session, when Mr Denis Bećirović was voted on to continue and finish the agenda immediately, as originally stated, that is to appoint one of the members of the College, i.e. Deputy/President of the Parliamentary House of BiH. And then you didn't give me the right, you went over it, and you said you decided to make that appointment at the first next session, that's today. And the least you need to give as information to this Parliament is to explain why today is a point, why there is no such item on the agenda today, or there is a point on the agenda, but it is obvious that because of this, it is because of the unwillingness to realise this item of the agenda that requires a session to be postponed, or to be given a broader explanation. So you put in the agenda what you said last time. Obviously, there is no willingness today to end it or not prepared. The least we expect of you is for you to give us full information on what's going on. Are we now going to become hostages of the fact that there is no deputy chairman? Whether it was meant to be taken care of when it was being entered into the complete project in June or something else I don't know, but I think this Parliament was working and when the Council of Ministers was in the technical mandate. We were established in May, as I recall, in 2011 and worked until February 2012 when we received the Council of Ministers finally. I don't see any reason why we can't keep working today if we don't have this agenda item, so let's solve these questions that we've been asked in the agenda. The laws are waiting, we have several important laws that should be dealt with, reports and so on. So please answer the question – Why is delay requested today? If that's because it's impossible to realize the first point, I guess now, then tell us why it's not possible to realize it. That's what I'm doing, so one thing. And secondly, I ask that no request be denied for the session to be postponed, that the session continue and do what is possible. I know it won't be possible to get along if there's any need, but we can work. Don't assume things in advance. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12134	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dr. Milorad Živković, vice president.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12135	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. 4 I do not need to give answers to some, but I would like to remind this House that there is nothing to be said in the College, but that this House voted in a conclusion where we said it would be the first item of the agenda, so this House did it, not someone or anyone from the College. On the other hand, if I choose between giving a chance to an agreement, which has been discussed here or talked about these days, on the one hand, to be a question of a man or a matter of agreement, I vote to give the agreement a chance. If this is the delay of this assembly until 22nd giving the agreement a chance, I vote to give the agreement a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12136	I thank the esteemed representative, Milorad Živković. Is this Mr. Jaferovic a discussion or a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12137	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12138	Did you have a line or a discussion just now?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12139	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12140	So, I want to make it clear is this now a replica or a discussion of yours?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12141	It was a discussion before, now it's a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12142	You've been reported here as a discussion, I'm saying...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12143	I'm sorry, then write there, and we'll change that into a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12144	Okay, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12145	So it's a replica. So, Mr. Živković, this Parliament cannot be held hostage by any agreement of political leaders. This Parliament has a constitutional role to play. We are directly elected, established and have our tasks and obligations, and let the political agreement go its own way, he will come here for the realization of Parliament. And we can't be like Parliament's hostages to any kind of political agreement. And that's why I don't think we should wait. We didn't wait any longer because we have to do our job. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12146	Replica response, distinguished representative Dr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12147	About what this Parliament is and what the constitutional role of this Parliament is, it is written in the Constitution, and you can explain it in lectures somewhere in colleges, because everyone here knows it well. But also to insist or any agreement well-intentioned in this country try in its very root to destroy it is neither the role of this Parliament nor the role of any of us individually.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12148	Thank you. Allow me, too, to express, before the discussion of counterpart Šepić, one reply to the debate and replica of counterpart Džaferović. It is not true that this Parliament is not working through today's session. Parliament is working intensively on its committees, committees and so on. and delegations, and on the other hand, colleague Magazinović explained this one context in order to make the work of all institutions more effective, not only this Parliament, and suggested that the six-party-supported session be extended. Here, that's it. So Parliament works because Parliament does not only work at sessions. Discussion, Honorary Representative Senad Šepić. I'm sorry again, second replica, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12149	Just tell us for what reasons the chairman. So we're not sick here, we're directly elected people, we come here to Parliament, we represent, we come... we need to know what's going on. This isn't just a question of opposition, we are the opposition today. Tell us why we're delaying the session so we all know, nothing more. And then we'll vote on the motion whether it's delayed or not. We will vote against, of course, because we propose that the session continue, only you owe us an explanation – why.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12150	Thank you. The debate, the esteemed representative of Senad Šepič.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12151	I hope this time I can say what I think, in the meantime, Mr. Chairman, you don't give someone else a word. In fact, it's pretty clear that here we now have the need to update some of the previous agreements that have been going on in the past few days. What is a dilemma, therefore, is the very fact that we are all brought here today to this House, so even though yesterday we had discussions on preparations for this session and did not have in this sense any hint that we might happen to postpone the session, it somehow makes us unnecessarily unnecessarily unnecessarily unnecessarily sad. 6 So here we have now heard that there are six political parties that have over 2/3 votes in this House, which have agreed to be together. So, on the other hand, we hear a gentleman, one of the vice-presidents, Mr. Živković, who, in some ways, always through his opinion, says exactly what direction some winds are heading. He says that today is a dilemma whether to give a man a chance or give an agreement, that he votes to postpone this session of Parliament by 15 days... on the agreement. So my question is - Who today brings back the agreement, which we have been able to read about in recent days, who is questioning this agreement with one position, or the position of man? Am I well understood that the new partner of the SNSD, therefore, the agreement that has been reached raises the question of the appointment of one man again in the position of vice/president, if that is the case... that we know today. And on the other hand, I suggest that we continue this session today because there are a lot of agenda points that we can do without this, and when we get into a position to plead and appoint ourselves, I'm not going to think straight to the start that this appointment is going to fail. Obviously, there's some concern here today that one of the candidates might not have enough hands, but that doesn't mean that someone else couldn't reach a sufficient number of hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12152	Thank you. Just to reach out, from fellow Živković when he is expected to be precise because he is a doctor of surgical profession, therefore. Next replica, distinguished representative Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12153	I thank the chairman. Well, very briefly if we can clarify this matter by respecting what is said. But one thing stands, and we made it clear yesterday at the Expansive College, besides what Mr. Živković said, at this point the Bosniak people do not have a representative in the College, has been removed as they have been removed, and the representatives of the Bosniak people have participated in his shift, if I remember correctly. We do not want to put into a situation the work of the House of Representatives because we will be inconclusive because in earlier attempts there have been situations where it has tried to play out that it is possible to do so. It's not possible, it's not real and it's not correct, and we said it yesterday. So, at this point, there isn't, with all due respect, that we need to work. We're clear... what kind of situations are possible and we don't want to play with it. It applies to us, it applies to the Hrvat and to anyone tomorrow. Why and since we haven't come to that since then, we can, we have, we can talk about it on the forums, in the media, but at this point I'm speaking on behalf of the SNSD. So quality and normal work is not realistic, it is not possible, it is not necessary and it is not correct until a representative of the Bosniak people is present. If there's another majority who can handle it today, so we can't stop it, we can't stop it. We'd like it now if it were possible, and if there is one here at this point, that story can end. But if you're working on it and this is the way and you're pro-longing me from SNSD, we've accepted it and we think it's real. And we would, of course, like it to be different, at this point it's not real. And of course, and for the future, we will never accept that the basic constitutional principle of equality and representation is to interpret it, because no one is going to drag us into a movie so that today there are two people 7 sitting up there and that any imaginary third who should sit up there sitting somewhere else and work like it's all normal. It's not normal, unfortunately. It's hard for me to say, but it's not and we're trying to make things normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12154	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12155	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. Look, it's obvious that from the SDA this opposition, whether the opposition position is better suited and the right to you as parliamentary majority is to vote whatever you want, you have a sufficient number of votes, or a hand. But don't expect us as an opposition party to support such an activity. And certainly for every praise is Mr Kalabić's concern for, here is the absence of a Bosniak member of the College and I hope that in this parliamentary majority there are enough numbers of Bošnjak who could hold that position. And that's why I don't see a single reason why we're gonna postpone this session today and lose the new 15 days to 20 and someone when you were planning on holding the next session. Therefore, do not expect us to support your activities, we are an opposition party but we believe that there are enough candidates who can be members of the College and to finish this job today and continue to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12156	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12157	Not wanting to deepen the debate, I just want to intervene on one sentence said by my esteemed colleague, Šepić, who says – we are brought to Parliament today. We are not brought to Parliament today, we should be here in Parliament every day. kolega Belkić, a colleague of Džaferović, also said something about this kind of irresponsibility, and I take them as an example on purpose because they are people who enter this building first and last come out of this building, and these are people that I meet in this Parliament every day, so I will not mind what I take as an example, so as not to be incorrect and take my colleagues from the club. So, of the 42 MPs in Parliament there are 40 professionals and don't let this session take place today at any of these, all these other discussions I respect, but don't go in the direction of why someone is invited to this session today. Well, even if he wasn't invited, he should be sitting here by the office and at his disposal. And don't let that be any reason to complain. As for counterpart Mehmedović, I agree with him and his view that there are enough candidates in the new parliamentary majority to act among Bosniaks before the majority of Bošnjak participate in the new parliamentary majority in this House and 8 I express the expectation that during the fastest period of time this issue will be resolved, not only this issue, but also many other issues that concern not only human resources, but also prominent programming arrangements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12158	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed representative of Senad Šepić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12159	This could be more about correcting my colleague Magazinović's wrong quote. So, just because we're here and we come every day, and so it's our obligation to work, this is our most basic job, which is to make regulations, laws and this kind of parliamentary work. So, no, I don't think it's enough just to show up at this building, but to carry out our parliamentary obligations at the sittings themselves, that's actually the highest level of our work. And that's where my discussion went. But thank you anyway for... that we're all physically here.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-07-0.u12160	Thank you. So I don't have any more applications to discuss, no more replicas, and I'd like to read before the vote, here's another conclusion, which explained and presented by my colleague Magazinović, because it's short. So, it reads – We, the undersigned representatives of political parties, propose a prolonging of the 36th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH until 22.11.2012. With an explanation. We find that the process of reconstructing the parliamentary majority is at the state level at the final stage. An agreement on programme project and staff solutions will be finalised in the next period. We therefore consider it appropriate that today's session be extended until the next session is held in the calendar of the House of Representatives. I suggest you prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that with 28 votes in favour of the entity majority, with 10 votes against and 1 abstention of this conclusion adopted and a session held on 22.11. I wish you all the best. Session aborted at 10:45.
