ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8832	Fellow Members and fellow Members, please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 24th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home, as well as representatives of certain NGOs and media representatives. We also invited the president of the Independent Committee as the independent body of the police structure in BiH, Mr. Ziku Krunić and the chairman of the Committee of Appeals of the citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, Mr. Mat Miletić, to discuss the materials delivered by these two committees. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. According to service information, there are 29 MPs present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the amendments and the addition of the agenda, I want to tell you that we have added new points for which business assumptions for the inclusion of the agenda are met, which are: - Sub 3. A request from the Alliance for a Better Future of BiH's MPs to consider the draft law supplementing BiH's election law under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives; - Point 19. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes to implement the European Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdić and Finc v BiH; - 20. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the citizens of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for 2011. - 21. A report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of BiH's police structure for 2001 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of the BiH police structure for 2012. Year; - 22. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the Permanent Commissions of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; - 23. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the joint committees of the two homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. We also completed point 6. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of a holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics; 2 Point 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention and control of the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs with the Commission's Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs; point 9 and point 10, also with negative opinions from competent commissions as well as the previous two. In the previous agenda, these were points 5.6.8 and 9. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8833	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the SDS Club, I request an extension to the Rules of Procedure, which is a member of 65th, an extension of the agenda to the point: Information by the BiH Attorney's Office on the BiH Court's ruling on the case of 41 of the BiH Court of Justice. I have a verdict here. I suggest that this be the point of agenda number 11 and, in the meantime, I don't know if there's anyone in the D.A.'s office, that the D.A. delivers us information on whether it filed a complaint and information on this case.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8834	Thank you. I'm asking you in writing to get us a draft headline on the agenda. Are there any further reports? If not, let me suggest a new agenda. My fellow Members and fellow Members, the distinguished guests, have been informed that there has been a change in the Commission's selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and coordination of the fight against corruption at the last session of the House of Peoples. This has caused certain, let me say, doubtless, and my personal and club from which I come, so that I propose a new item of the agenda in accordance with Article 65(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives which reads: Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision appointing a member of the Commission to select and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and coordinate the fight against corruption. I suggest that it be the last item of the agenda. This decision, which has already been prepared, I will allow the services to copy and each MP to receive it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, the point is just to change the name, instead of me coming Mrs. Dušanka Majkić, who was kicked out of the House of Peoples and put in another candidate. And in any case, since it takes us a few minutes to photocopy these decisions and get a 10-minute break from a respected colleague to get those materials so we can vote on them. Thank you. 3 [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8839	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I just want to say with point 5 of the last session, which had the name of the bill on banning denial, minimisation, justification or approval of holocausts, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity, the results of the vote are known, I do not want to question them. It was clearly not accepted The opinion of the competent commission with 14 votes "yes" (from the Federation of BiH one from RS 13). I just want to say that by mistake then I voted for the Committee's report, otherwise my personal and political commitment is to regulate this matter. And here I'm looking, if that's not too much, that maybe just in the footnote of that note. Of course, I don't want, I don't want, I don't want, I can't ask, I can't ask for changes in vote results.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8840	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad. 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received At today's session, they received answers to questions asked at the 14th session; Božo Ljubić of the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 10th and 16th session; Ismet Dervoz of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked the question at the 14th session and the initiative at the 16th session; Azra Hadžiahemtović of the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 12th and 13th session and from the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Security, asked at the 13th session, which was repeated at the 19th session; Beriz Belkić of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked questions at the Jovičić session of the House, the Government, asked at the 16th session and the Office of the Council of Ministers of BiH's Office for Human Rights at the 20th meeting. Sessions, and BiH's Attorney General, questioned at the 19th session; Denis Bećirović of the Council of Ministers, asked questions on 12, 13 and 14. Sessions, and the Government of the RS, asked questions at the 15th session; Dušanka Majkić of the Council of Ministers, asked questions at the 13th and 15th session, and initiatives addressed at the 13th and Lazar session, the Foreign Investments Agency in BiH, asked questions at the 20th session, the Federation of BiH Government, asked at the 23rd session; Mate Franjičević of the Council of Ministers, at the initiative addressed to the 14th session and the Commission on the preservation of national monuments, asked at the 20th session; Amir 7 Purić of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Magazinović questions at the 14th and 15th session of the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications, asked at the 15th session; Petar Kunić of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked at the 16th session; Šemsudin Mehmedović of the Council of Ministers of Ministers of BiH, asked questions at the BiH and 14. (two replies) both at the 15th and 16th session; Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović of the Council of Ministers ofBiH , asked questions at the 13thsession , from the Employment Service of theHerzegovina- Neretva Canton and the Public Employment Service of CantonSarajevo , asked at the 23rdsession , as well as the notice of the BPK Employment Service on the issue at the 23rdsession ; Zijad Jagodić of the Council of Ministers asked questions on 13th and14 .( tworeplies ) and 20thsession , as well as the initiative addressed to the 15thsession , the Directorate for indirect taxation on the initiative addressed to the 19thsession , the Government of the Brcko District on the initiative addressed to the 20thsession ; the Darko Babalj of the Council of Ministers on the 12th and the initiative addressed to the 13thsession ; the issue ofProdanović- Uzunović from the Council ofMinisters , on the 15thsession Saša the issue asked by Nermin Borislav Bojić of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly ofBiH , asked at the 23rdsession ; Milica Marković of the Court ofBiH , on the issue asked at the 23rdsession ; the issue of Danijela Mirsad Martinović Mešić on the issue of the 15th meeting of the Council of Ministers ofBiH ,Mr. Please sign in if there's any requests for a comment. Let's take it in a row. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8842	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, of course, what else would be expected than to be unsatisfactory by the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH. Those who remember know that the essence of my question was: ‘How was it possible for the decisions of the competent court or courts in Prnjavor to have three presidents of the Assembly and how could one small local community be paying out of their budget of three presidents of the Municipality and this is the consequence of the decisions of the courts?’ The answer at least is ridiculous. They say there were no problems in the distribution of cases, and I ask them how this happened, to explain to us, these are the decisions of the courts that people have to implement, and that Prnjavor has three presidents and everyone is calling for the court's decision and that the court has not accepted to explain how this happened and how it is possible and they are deafening to the demands and local communities, here is the state parliament. If only it were a problem, they realized there were no problems in the distribution of objects without explaining in any sentence how possible. However, when I see other issues and today's agenda points, then it's clear to me, I think even I've been well and passed that they've answered at all, how is the situation in other cases. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8843	Thank you. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8844	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, we see that this left part is somewhat more filled than usual and I welcome this future work. But I really want to say that this time we've got a lot of answers to questions, but we've got a little quality answers. Obviously, the Council of Ministers is trying to get rid of the accumulated material, so it will have to answer once more because it is done. So, I got a few answers. The first response was related to the issue of the 13th session of the House of Peoples and the question of an initiative to launch a procedure to examine the justification for the continued existence of the Agency for Forensic Studies and Arts by the Council of Ministers. And imagine, please, that the answer is that responsibility for the effective functioning of the Agency is borne by the manager, not taking into account the demands of police agencies and prosecutors as well as the non-starting of initiatives to more dynamically finance the opening of new laboratories. So, it's known that the forensics lab is part of the Federal MUP that won't deliver to the Agency, and now it's the Agency's director because he didn't rip up that Agency and he's responsible because the Agency doesn't do most of its activities. So, absolutely inappropriate, the answer is: I don't want to be killed by too much of a word, but this doesn't make any sense to fit. The next response is also from the 13th session, related to that software, the famous Microsoft, where BiH has been in charge for several years. I haven't been able to study it, I won it late, I haven't been able to study it, so I'll get to the bottom of it at the next session. As for the answer to the 15th session on KPZ Zenica from the Justice Ministry, the Justice Ministry explained what was clear but the answer was previously received which could be said to be what I thought and what I expected. With the 20th session, the issue is also related to the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments. I am satisfied with the answer but again I am dissatisfied with a non-functional institution that has large funds from the budget, which has additional funds that rewards as individual investors. And as part of that, I will come out with the following initiative: to review and to examine the existence of such an institution. So the answer is clear to me, but what he means is it will be seen in the section that will refer to proposing my new initiative. And at the 20th session, I didn't get an answer either. The public is all facing those 4,000 international agreements that BiH has concluded, and it is very interesting anything the Council of Ministers, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, will say. And I can tell you that I'm ashamed to read what the Foreign Ministry said because of the size of the material... 9
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8845	I'd just like to take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8846	(Here I'm finishing) a review of all the contracts we deliver... to the firm if necessary. Since they didn't think I needed it, I asked them to say exactly what happened to those 4,000 contracts, I didn't get the answer. And finally, here is the answer to today's question concerning the financing of the Interreligious Council. Here, the Federation has paid 50,000, the RS has previously paid, and there is still a payment of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8847	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8848	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have received four answers to two problems or two questions asked. The first concerns the rights of workers who were employed in the Republic of Croatia by 1991 and were then fired and have never achieved their rights until today. There are two associations in BiH. We discussed the subject several times here, or once we discussed and adopted conclusions, and we asked many questions. I've got answers to questions. I am not satisfied with the answers, both in terms of the BiH-Republic of Croatia and in response to the activities of our institutions, because it is unacceptable that at least the money given to them can be helped in the exercise of their rights, and between our institutions the institutions are being sent to the institution, it is not clear who will explain how they spend these funds. I therefore propose that this issue, therefore, be put back on the agenda of the House of Representatives, with the aim of analysing the conclusions that we adopted a few years ago and seeing again where and how to address this issue. And so that's now a question that turns into an initiative. The second thing or other answer I have received concerns the implementation of the Animal Protection and Well-being Act. The answer is therefore given: everyone washes his hands. We cannot wash our hands of the problem that we all have in BiH, because it is evident that we have a problem, this law has not been implemented, which is because of the lack of asylum, which is... the non-registration of regulations, i.e. the register and other regulations that are necessary. I therefore propose that the BiH Council of Ministers finally put this on the agenda of its session and discuss the implementation of this law and see what it is that must be done to address this problem in BiH as soon as possible. That's it, thank you. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8849	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8850	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the Council of Ministers, distinguished fellow NGOs, colleagues, fellow Members of Parliament, so I don't know, I've already thought, four or five times so far, that it's absurd to ask parliamentary questions but here's what the people would say, there's something to be done. When I get this answer from the D.A.'s office, and I've asked, not a parliamentary question, but I've personally taken to the D.A.'s office for a criminal record against responsible persons who don't respect the verdict, or whatever you want to call, the Constitutional Court of this country. Then what else am I going to ask anyone, and I'm not going to make an absurd and make a circus, because I never did that, I'm dealing with facts. There's all the Alibe's straw in here. A commission is being formed to investigate the death of Srbin, Bošnjak, Hrvat, and I have received a decision to form a study of Srbin deaths in Sarajevo. They are bound by that decision by the Constitutional Court. The competent persons who are required through their co-workers and competent commissions to deliver the information to me - do nothing. And of course, I get the D.A.'s answer that there's not enough evidence, it's suspended everything. Everything's been suspended here. And what else to set up. Another question, which I asked the Ministry of Security, about naturalized foreigners. And also, that whole thing was emasculating. Had a commission, formed me in my last term here, she worked, determined for 665 people to have illegally assigned citizenship, no one to bear a criminal consequence, who assigned them, in what way, and it became obsolete. I'm filing a criminal report on who stole the Dayton Agreement. So, the date was stolen, no one took it. When I lose one material in my apartment, I yell at my family, who took my material, I ask for it, because it's important for me, and here someone stole the Dayton Agreement from the Presidency, I filed a criminal report, and he also took it personally, and he says, "We have suspended the investigation, no one has taken the Dayton Agreement." Well, he, Mr. Chairman, was not with you in the car or in my office. He was with me in the presidency. If you don't keep an act of this state, how does this state operate without that act? And I get the answer: there's not enough evidence. Normally there won't be any evidence when no one's in charge of the investigation. I'm filing a criminal report that the CEFTA Agreement has disappeared from the Foreign Affairs Ministry. There's not enough evidence. There's nothing here evidence, and the only evidence is only the emissaries are thieves, that's proof for everyone. What am I supposed to do? I don't really know what absurdity we've brought to and the parliamentary questions and our work on these problems. Whoever I put in there doesn't have enough evidence. Now may I say, from the D.A.'s office, you who gave me this kind of cataract answer bear criminal responsibility, and you have no salary next month. I can't. Thank you very much. And then what am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8851	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8852	Thank you. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I would like to know the answers I have received over the past period, so five, six answers, of which only two would like to comment and this is about the Statistics Agency. Given that as MPs, we are reviewing and analysing the situation in all areas, certainly the data from the Statistics Agency is something that leads us to do. However, by looking at and analysing data through ministries and other institutions, we find that data is often not harmonised. However, in response I received that it is still so and that the Agency is the key that needs it. However, it is, but if the data, not to say, is, by 10, 20% higher in institutions that most likely misdeliver data to the Statistics Agency, then there are deviations. And here I really think that we need to do something and that accuracy, precision and ultimately deadlines are delivered in time to the Agency if we want to comply with the laws in this area. Secondly, the question that has particularly little interest me in commenting, i.e. to get to know you, is procedures, i.e. regulations in the field of the Veterinary Office, the Office for the Health of Plants of BiH and the Food Safety Agency. I asked the three institutions for an answer on what they did in the past, as regards adapting the rules in this area, in order to adapt to EU regulations and directives. I can say that I received an extremely large response from the Food Safety Agency, on page 45 A4, which described what they did and was completely satisfied with it. However, the Veterinary Office and the Office for Health Protection of Plants, see only on one page, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations provided a dozen sentences. And, believe me, I think I'm seeing extremely well, but as this is written in a font, in my opinion, it's not a ten or an eight, it's possible that it's a four, I have to take a look at it, and I'd ask that these letters, so our General Secretariat try it on one page, to put it on a ten or a font on a twelve. And secondly, I'd ask the Office of Veterinary to let us know once what they've really done in the past, because I'm not happy with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8853	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Amir Fazlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8854	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I have a comment on two questions, on the matter from the 14th session. Namely, it is also an ongoing issue that treats old foreign exchange savings in the Ljubljanska Banka and Invest Banka Belgrade. I must admit that the Council of Ministers really gave a good answer, called for a legal basis, an interpretation of Slovenia, an interpretation of Belgrade and everything else. And on that side, I'm pleased. It also called for a certain trial at the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. And it gave one conclusion, he said, "this process requires the involvement of holders of the legislative and executive authorities in BiH depending on the jurisdiction and authority." 12 This sentence has asked me to comment and to see how we are going to include this process, which has been going on for many years, and to help solve this process. I hope that the first visit to the Minister of Foreign Affairs to Belgrade and I believe that the next one, it was more and more protocol and work, but that the following visits will be made..., the foreign minister and other resolutions mentioned here will have this important issue in mind and we will try to resolve this. I will probably ask one of the initiatives in the next session, while I read a little more, because there are several legal provisions here, several activities that need to be done are mentioned. My second comment concerns the 15th session issue, and it is about the issue of the Agency for Identification Documents and Data Exchange of BiH, where I sought the names of the employees. The fact that I didn't state the reason for asking for those names and the fact that I got one answer that points me to thinking this way that we can't get those names because of the Personal Data Protection Act. The names of the MPs, the names of the executive authority are available to the authorities and the public, and I'm really a little surprised that the administration is so legally protected that we can't know the names of those employed in the state institutions and it's likely to launch certain initiatives to amend this law. I don't see that it's a secret, some information, if there's 150 names in an institution, because I'm not looking for birth numbers, I'm not looking for everything that belongs to an individual's characteristics, but just a name and a last name. And the fact that I'm also responsible for the national structure in this agency, I'll just read it, so Bošnjak 22.27, Srbin 30.25, Hrvat 8.40, others 1.26 and unsolicited 0.42 and unfulfilled 37.39. There's one answer here that says why it's like that. But what I'm not satisfied with, and I can't, we have to respect the laws, so I really can't understand that public names are not available in all institutions without this data.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8855	I'm asking you to take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8856	Here, I'm finishing up, considering, I had more to comment on, but since I have to respect the Rules of Procedure and I'm going to be done.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8857	Thank you. The next is Honourable representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8858	I'll just have a comment on one of the answers I got today. I am, of course, taking the opportunity to thank the RS government for the response and the Council of Ministers' agent, or the Council of Ministers' representative at the European Court of Human Rights, Ms Monika Mijić, for the answers I am pleased with. The comment concerns the answer of the BiH Law Department to my question: "Is the Ombudsman's office acting on... the conclusions of this assembly, that is, this House of Representatives, regarding the continuation of the registration of state property by aneks a, or military property." The answer I got me was, to tell you the truth, startled. So, the conclusion was such a character that he asked the pravobranilaštvo just to continue the job by law and nothing else. 13 In their own information, they informed this House of Representatives that they were going to book, so many locations registered, or entities, etc., and that they had suspended the enrollment on request, or application, the letter of the High Representative. Explanations, etc. They're absolutely unacceptable to me, and I'm taking the opportunity to call on the D.A. to preserve my dignity and not make himself a subjective authority. So it's one of BiH's organs that absolute independence and authority must have. The answer that they do not have data on 69 locations that need to be recorded in favour, which are state-owned, but that they are made available to the Ministry of Defence, is incredible. In 2006, the BiH presidency established 69 locations and I think it is familiar to everyone. According to my information, the Department of Defense has made every effort and provided documentation for each individual location. So there are no formal obstacles. This also confirms the fact that, in their information, they said that one of the locations, I think it was about Capljina, and they registered, and they wrote down the procedures that they considered to be a priority at the conclusion of their college and started working them in 2010 to break up. So here's the conclusion, I'm taking a second chance, although I'm not sure that this drinks something special water, I'm calling the pravobranilaštvo to hold on to me, to keep his dignity, and to keep doing what the law tells him to do. And I would take advantage of the opportunity, when I answered, of a little suggestion to the College; unfortunately, only Mr. Ljubić is there, obviously, that the time has come for us to organise that session: MEPs are asking – the Council of Ministers agrees, which is ultimately our business, so to speak, the obligation. Because you see, we have a hundred questions practically and we spend hours at these regular sessions of ours, and I think it would be good if we did this session as soon as possible and, let me put it this way, we shoot ourselves in one session, we take a day apart, and we use time for these other points of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8859	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8860	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen MPs, ministers, deputies, I have asked a few questions and I have received several answers, and here I will try to comment on one of these, or two answers to the question: "How much is the increase, i.e. the reduction of foreign investment in BiH, since the appointment of the new director of FIPA, i.e. the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments?" In fact, this is one example of trying to cloud the eyes of the MPs by providing a collection of incorrect data. If an official website of the Central Bank is made, it will be seen that in fact that one drastic reduction in foreign investment in BiH was the largest in 2007 when it was 12% of gross national income, in order to reduce this year to only 1.2, which is certainly unacceptable. On the other hand, one of my questions came up with an answer to the question, "What are the effects of FIPA employees' travel?" Here's an example, in fact, of a trip to a real estate fair in Moscow that cost BiH 22,500 KM. And I asked what the effects of that trip were. Of course, the answer says that in 2011 investments by Russia amounted to 141.4 million KM. But of course, it wasn't that delegation that provided it, but it's through the direct negotiation of Dodik, these are investments 14 in the Modrich Rafineri, in the Bosnian Ship Refinery. Therefore, this is an example of how no questions should be answered. And of course, the third question was, "Have the provisions of the law and the sublegal acts been applied in the work of SIPA, and have there been cases of non-compliance?" And today, the SiPA Act is being violated, where it is said that three key positions cannot be from the same people. It's obvious that national imbalances are being drastically violated there. On the other hand, I would like to comment on the response of the Ministry of Civil Affairs when I asked, "How have the funds for sport and culture been allocated, and the NGO sector by the Ministry of Civil Affairs?" The answer was that they only provided 15,000 marks to finance the celebration of the Jewish festival of the International Day of Remembrance of Holocaust victims. Other data, the Ministry of Civil Affairs says, are not available because funds from the budget reserves have been allocated. So my question will be renewed: 'How are the budget reserves and who are allocated funds for sport and culture?' Furthermore, I asked the Council of Ministers and all institutions: 'How long has this Council of Ministers been convened in the past and in which institution is retired officials, and restored to the same jobs or advisory positions?' I got a checkup, I need to be honest that certain institutions and ministries haven't provided me with accurate information. So I will surely insist on the answer, with an exact answer to this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8861	I'd only like to take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8862	I've had some more comments, but given the time, I'm done.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8863	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8864	Thank you. My colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all together. I have the need to comment on the questions I received from the BiH Prosecutor's Office and from the Directorate for Direct Taxation. I have asked the indirect taxation administration a question concerning the disposal of stolen vehicles located at the premises of the Directorate for Direct Taxation and for which sales have been announced. According to the management information, currently there are 1,509 legally withdrawn motor vehicles in the deposits of the ICC. I asked in the parliamentary question whether any of these vehicles could be used and assigned to a humanitarian organisation or to a social institution in BiH, expressing concern that the whole process of selling a vehicle would not be transparent and that there is a possibility that some of these vehicles would be found on BiH roads again after the sale. Of course, those vehicles were seized for customs and other violations. And I got the answer from the management that such vehicles can't be put back on the market, which is logical, so I can't take the vehicles away because of the violations and then put those vehicles on the market under current regulations, but the BiH Council of Ministers can make a special decision to regulate this issue in a different way and make use of these vehicles. So here's what I'm asking the Council of Ministers to consider. As for the BiH Prosecution's response, I asked the question on 27.10 last year and, behold, I only recently received an answer. They're quite up-to-date, and otherwise we have problems when it comes to parliamentary issues. For example. I have never received answers to the questions I asked the BiH presidency. So then I asked about the investigation of the discovered tombs within the former Kasarna "Adil Besic" in Bihac. The second part of the issue also referred to the processing of war crimes in the area of the Cazin region. I'm partially satisfied with the answers. I don't think the answer is precise enough regarding the other part of the question concerning the investigation of war crimes committed in former Kasar "Adil Bešić" in Bihaq, where, I recall, some tombs have been discovered, etc. The prosecution hasn't processed it yet, and here I hope this will be some incentive to the D.A.'s office, and even with the risk of this being interpreted as a pressure on the D.A.'s office. I believe all victims deserve the same treatment in BiH and that the truth should be revealed regardless of who it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8865	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8866	Thank you, Mr. President. At the 16th session, on 22.12, I asked three questions, one question to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. And let me remind you that the issue concerned an announced visit to the Monitoring Team of the European Commission's Food and Veterinary Office. I am as an agent by the management of one of the companies in the peradarity sector in BiH informed of the announcement of this visit and I have been informed that the aim of this visit is, with the fact that it determines how many competences are, how qualified the Veterinary Office is to perform its function in quality. That the second goal is to determine whether and possibly how many BiH companies meet the conditions for food exports to the EU market, and in the poultry sector. I asked for it first, "Is that information correct?" Second: 'What criteria were there for the selection of companies?' And third, if my previous knowledge was correct: "What can the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Council of Ministers do to prevent what unfortunately happened?" The answer is a few lines at the end, this is an introduction and this is my question up and this is a little bit back, and that's all but the answer. There are no answers here that are criteria, because it's only said that someone thought these companies that are proposed are who they should be. And nothing else. Nothing has been said about whether my information is all true, and I also cited some information that suggested that it was proposed among the worst companies in the BiH sector. And I asked, a month and a half before it was a monitoring visit to the European Commission's Office for Veterinary and Food: 'What does the Council of Ministers, or 16 responsible ministry, which I think is really competent, intend to do, if this is true, to prevent it?' There's no answer here that there was a visit to the Food and Veterinary Office. I happen to have information that he was. And you see, for a wonderful miracle, none of the proposed six companies have fulfilled a minimum of conditions. Now for a month and a half, I am warning the Council of Ministers and the competent ministry that this will happen. A month and a half, now three and a half months later, I get an answer after three and a half months. I'm not getting a full answer. There are no criteria. And I ask myself and you the question: What is the point of asking questions? This is about the obvious conflict of criminal groups in the institutions of entities and BiH. And from here, I publicly invite all the prosecutions in this country, all law enforcement agencies, to prevent this from happening. This is the most direct damage both to entities, and to the BiH state, and to the few employees working in this sector who are trying to make this imbalance that is 1:10
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8867	I'd only pray for time to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8868	I know. You read these days that meat and meat processing imports are 10 times higher than BiH exports. He'll be 100 times bigger when this is how it's done in the competent institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8869	Thank you. The next one is Commissioner Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8870	Thank you very much, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I have a brief observation of the response I received from the State Service Agency, and I asked the question on December 8th last year. I would like to warn this opportunity, and invited by this answer, that they cannot and should not give different information to the same question in the same answer. Obviously, whoever answered this question has given completely different data in two paragraphs of this answer. So the question was about the number of new civil servants and deputies and the type of their diplomas. The first paragraph says it's 165 civil servants, the second that it's 266. Now I'm asking, do they even think about what they're writing at this state agency at the State Service Agency? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8871	Thank you. Next is the distinguished representative Mato Franjičević. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8872	Mr. President, I have received a reply to the initiative I sent to the Council of Ministers, which proposed that the relevant rules on the systematicisation of jobs be drawn up in two important institutions, in the Border Police and the SIPA, in order to comply with the provisions of the Code on the Protection of Secret Information and also, in order to honour the agreements we have signed, on the one hand with NATO, and on the other hand with the EU, on this subject. Instead of a clear statement by the Council of Ministers on the initiative itself, I have received some very good information on the fact that both these institutions, both the Border Police and SIPA, have made proposals for a regulation on the systematisation of jobs that achieves these desirable and necessary effects, but there is no clear position on what is to be expected. Why doesn't the Council of Ministers then adopt those rules on job systematization and then finish the job? This is a more vague team, given the fact that it is contained in this information that, when it comes to the border police in particular, it has obtained all relevant opinions from the Council of Ministers' Legislative Office, through the opinion of certain resolution ministries and that it has been waiting as a proposal in the Council of Ministers for almost two years. So, I repeat this initiative and ask the Council of Ministers not to send me any more information on how far it has come, but to say whether it is ready to adopt these regulations and when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8873	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8874	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I finally got an answer from the Council of Ministers. I thought it would be just a procedural response to clarify some things here in Parliament, but the answer I received is asking a number of new questions. It was actually a passive subsidisation of our country. In this response, it is a painful truth that 17 years after the war, the BiH state has no idea of its ownership outside its territory. That's just fascinating. I would very much like some good economic and legal experts, and especially the sectors of civil initiatives, to be slightly above that idea. Gentlemen, there is nothing in this answer except the right answer. It calls for the Constitution, Annex IV, section g) in this section of Annex, a lack of information from the RS, the Federation of BiH, the Brcko District. Finally, it is widely acknowledged that the longtime appointed directorates that need to solve these problems, but they have never functioned, are not functional and have never given a single answer. And finally, the Council of Ministers also calmly answers me that it really does not know what the real property of BiH citizens, BiH institutions outside its territory, is. And by the way, a few days ago, you all had the opportunity to hear in our means of public information a frantic fact that the Serbian government is declaring in this year that it will launch 18 sales of all BiH assets on its territory, which is estimated to be rough, do not hold my word, I would ask that it be checked, about 8 billion marks. If all of our passports were collected, we wouldn't have to take off our beggar hat in front of the International Monetary Fund to give us a few million dollars to get out of the crisis. For God's sake, this country has billions. Who takes care of them? Who's got them? Who's secretly selling them? Do we have any idea how much our assets have been sold out of BiH territory? So, passive subsilence for a long, long time won't be made yet. And to tell you the truth, I'm afraid that here, at the great summit and perhaps outside the territory of this country, along with those in BiH, a great tycoonisation of BiH's vast assets has been carried out. This question that I asked gave me the answer that you got in your MP benches. But what I'm saying is, it initiates us to really see if we have such great assets that we give to spread out around the world and sell out like the old Alybe's straw, as we used to say. A very interesting question and please, dear colleagues and colleagues, and all of you other guests who listen to us, to think this through. We're not that rich to waste billions... of property. Understand all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8875	Thank you. The next is a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8876	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I received two answers. One forms an integral part of a package of questions referred to three institutions. I repeat, it is a repeated response from the Council of Ministers, and I have not received a repeat reply from the Federation government yet. I just want to draw attention to one problem regarding the collection of claims based on the engagements of its timely "Hidrogradnja" in Iraq. The funds that lie at the expense of Jumbes in Belgrade and which have been the subject of a dispute between BiH institutions for years. Secondly, the second comment that I think really should be given concerned the expiry of accreditation, i.e. the temporary period of accreditation of higher education institutions which expired 15. 8. In 2011 and in accordance with the provisions of the law, which this Parliamentary Assembly... has adopted; among other things, one of the provisions of the law says that state authorities cannot hire graduates from non-accredited higher education institutions. Practically, not a single degree of 15. 8 last year is not valid in terms of employment. In that sense, I have also asked a parliamentary question with intent and to initiate some activities. My question was whether the state authorities would recognise these diplomas obtained afterwards, to get an answer to encourage information, therefore encouraging, obtained from the Higher Education Development Agency that a public university had submitted a request for accreditation. So I'm not happy with the answer. I ask you to repeat my question, if you need further explanation with this question. So, what's been done by the competent institutions? It is not only the Agency responsible for carrying out the accreditation procedure of higher education institutions, but what has been done by the relevant 19 institutions, or what is necessary to do in order to stimulate the whole process in order not to accidentally extend it, possibly repeated?' Thank you. So I repeat my question.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8877	Thank you. Next is Honourable representative Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8878	I'll comment on the question very briefly. At the 16th session, I asked a question about the launch of criminal proceedings for corruption and organised crime, and the violation of the Public Procurement Act. It is an area that is very important for BiH, especially this Law on Public Procurement and the answer says that this law is incomplete, therefore incomplete and that it should be urgently upgraded. The NGO sector has been back, I don't know, for a few months finding that it loses billions in BiH in public procurement. I think the Council of Ministers' priority would have to put this law into practice. And by the way... I ask the question what does our questions mean when no one reacts? The new Council of Ministers, no one sits there. So, what is this and does it even mean, what is the purpose of these questions? You really point to some facts very important, so no one reacts. Are we going to put that executive power under control somehow? ... (I ask a question), do we have mechanisms? We do? Do we have the will? Looks like we don't.' And I got the answer to these questions. The D.A. gave an answer. I'm amazed at some data, to mention some of the counterfeiting of official documents, the judgment of zero. In BiH, this is very, very widespread, many work with fake diplomas and many other false documents; abuse of position nine during 2011, nine convictions; organised crime, abuse of position and authority of zero convictions; crimes of organised crime, association for the conduct of crimes in 2010 51 convictions. I think so many crimes were committed that the stadium couldn't fit the ones who did it. So the stadium would be small... if we had the right legislation legal, legal regulations and, of course, institutions that would force it. So the results are defeated and simply give an impulse for some kind of alarm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8879	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8880	... When asked about using Microsoft's licence for BiH institutions, I received an answer that I am pleased with. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8881	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Borislav Bojić. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8882	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I will insist on answering a few questions and I will comment on one of the only answers I have received. Again, I insist that I be provided with a response from the Council of Ministers regarding the investigation of crime and death, tragic deaths in Sarajevo. I didn't get that answer and don't write it again, it's just an emergency. And then the question I referred to the Foreign Trade and Economic Relations Ministry about the transfer of powers to the Foreign Chamber. Then the question about the symbols here at the House of Representatives that I sent to the Kolegijum. And the other questions I asked, I didn't get an answer. But I got an answer about the ban on using tobacco smoke in the House of Representatives. I know this is an awkward question for colleagues sitting here in this House of Representatives and, of course, for officials working in these offices, because the halls in the House of Representatives are similar to those of the village, which is about what they look like. And we want European standards, and we want to do, is that right, we're implementing that kind of law, and then the Joint Service dealt better with these two extensive laws, and they've provided me with a very extensive instruction. So, I'm talking about this issue as a matter of law enforcement. So, the point is implementation, colleagues, the law. Imagine that the Joint Service has made one very broad instruction that has an introduction, which has a content, which has a certain room, which has everything that needs to be instructed, so it has conclusions on what needs to be done. All that matters in one sentence, I will read it, that I do not do, so the instruction reads like this, says: "The instructions on smoking bans in the offices of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH." And this great instruction came to the conclusion, 'and according to European standards,' said those who make the instrukcija,'respecting everyone's right to a healthy working environment', they came to the conclusion, 'and according to European standards, they say, 'it is a ban on smoking in the offices of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in which there is at least one, at least one non-smoking as well as during the meetings'. Here, that's how you enforce the law. I had to tell all of us this. I know a lot of people sitting here don't answer this, but if this is how the laws are implemented, there's nothing in our business. If we want European standards, if we want everything we need first of all, we must sit in this legislative body to respect what we ourselves bring. And what's the situation with the law in question, you have a chance to see in all the offices after all. I know, I'm having problems at my own club where I'm sitting and it's not my problem, it's the law enforcement problem. Gentlemen, we'll get used to having to law enforcement, and I congratulate the Joint Service on this extensive instruction, with detailed instructions, with a certain smoking room, such as at airports wherever you go, when we get out of BiH, we tie our seat belts and use the rooms that are specially designated for smoking. Thank you very much, and to you all who smoke, live happily ever after.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8883	Thank you. The first deputy chairman, the Honorable Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8884	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I have received answers to two questions. One question was: "What was done at the conclusion of the BiH Council of Ministers in preparation for the construction of the 21 border crossing of Biac?" I am not satisfied with the answer, because in fact, the answer has only repeated part of my argument that the Bijac crossing is one of the two crossing points through which it will be able to export at full capacity and control goods when Croatia joins the EU, which is next year. And the answer is approximately that the Council of Ministers informed of its conclusion to the Federation government. However, my question was, "What was done at the conclusion of the Council of Ministers on this plan?" And as far as I know, not much has been done, and I'm afraid there's going to be a time when we're going to stay maybe just one transition through which we'll be able to export the goods at full capacity. The second question was on the Croatian-language TV channel, and it said briefly: 'What is the current phase, which are the following steps in the process of establishing the Croatian-language channel within the Public TV System of BiH?' And I'm extremely pleased with the answer. In response, it was said that a technical elaborat was made, that the digitisation process envisioned that three centres in BiH, Sarajevo, Banja Luka and Mostar would install fully independent independent centres that would be able to broadcast the programme. That the new digitalisation system allows for a new channel to be established, including a channel in Croatian. That the Council of Ministers' plan for this year includes the adoption of legislation that will provide for service, public service, a Croatian-language TV channel in the Public TV System of BiH. And I just expect the Council of Ministers to send us proposals for amendments from the law as soon as possible so that we can access the implementation of this obligation brought by the BiH Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8885	Thank you. We've completed our comments on the questions. We go to b) New MP questions Please sign in. So, the fastest in the process is distinguished colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8887	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I have one initiative and one question. For the question, I will only read the end, the question is, and it is addressed to the Ministry of Finance: 'When will the Ministry of Finance review the decision on special bonuses on salaries for professional military personnel of the Ministry of Defence? Since the Ministry of Defence has consciously made an oversight of the preparation of the Decision on Special Salary Supplements, so-called A flight allowance, for professional military personnel at the Ministry of Defence adopted by the Council of Ministers: How much funding is being allocated annually from the Budget of BiH for the position of flight allowance to persons deployed on duty outside the Air Force brigade for the categories of aircraft we do not have and which we will not have in the future?' 22 That’s one question. As for the initiative, the initiative is submitted to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, which is related to reviewing the continued existence of the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments (FIPA). In a few words, let me just say what this is about. Therefore, I believe that the Agency has an irrationally large number of members of the Management Board appointed for a period of two years, that it has a large budget for the jobs it is working, or that it has not justified its existence so far, that the FIPA budget for 2010 is almost 4 million, and it also has a Fund to support foreign investors of 2 million, that these funds have been allocated to foreign investors since 2008, so close to 6 million has already been spent, and that the Agency has so far not built an effective instrument to ensure the return of funds allocated and unintendedly spent. I must also say that in 2006, FIPA made a strategy to promote or attract foreign direct investment, which has long been time-consuming, professionally unrealized and quite irrelevant, calls for measures and instruments made in the medium-term PRSP Development Strategy 2004-2007. So, accordingly, I believe that the following should be done: an analysis of the work done so far, the results of FIPA's work, so... what are the total effects that BiH has had with the establishment of the Agency and to examine further the existence of this institution or to fully eliminate or organise a small organisational part within the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations. In addition to this initiative, I am giving the material that came to me in response to the parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8888	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8889	Thank you, Chairman. My question is addressed to the BiH Attorney's Office, but before I go to the question, I must give one commendation to the Court of Justice. I mean, even though I've been criticizing them all the time, I have to say that this morning when I took the paper, I was proud of them. Once upon a time in the early 1900 ’ s, a great mathematician Rasel set up a paradox that brought down the former Cantor’s theory of gatherings. The paradox translated into plain language reads like this: "There is a barber in one village who shaves all those who don't shave themselves, the question is who shaves the barber"? So that's all the way up to today was an indecisive problem. What we saw in the "Independent Newspaper" this morning, where the judges of the BiH Court sued the BiH state to the judges of the BiH Court of Justice, so they settled, became barbers from this Russell paradox and showed us that judges of the Court of Justice who do not judge themselves are suing themselves. So they've knocked down, so here's a math theory after a number of mathematicians who have profiled in the last century, and so we have, well, now a new scientific achievement that has been reached by the BiH Court of Justice. So my question is to the pravobranilaštvo, I'm interested in saying, "Did the pravobranilaštvo file a complaint against this verdict that, legal experts say, I'm not giving my opinion, they say there's no legal stand, there's no clear abuse, and if it didn't file a complaint, why didn't it do it?" 23
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8890	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8891	I have four short questions. First of all, I am asking the College and the Secretary of the Joint Service: 'To provide me with a review of the compensation for the work of the committees of all MPs and delegates, except, of course, regular parliamentary committees for which there is no compensation for work, and to cover the period from the beginning of this term to today'. I have three short questions about the Anti-Corruption Agency. The first is to the Council of Ministers: 'When it will be included in the agenda of the proposal for a Regulation on the internal organisation of the Agency, which was delivered to them on 16.12.2011. the year?' The second question is the College of the Two Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH: 'When will the Commission choose and monitor the work of the Agency as referred to in Article 17. A law on the Agency to comply with the provisions of this Member of the Law? It said that the Commission is composed of three members from both homes and two representatives from the academic community and one representative from the NGO sector. Now as things stand, four are from the House of Representatives, one from the House of Peoples, one to whom the term of office of delegates has ceased, so it is no longer there and, of course, these three have been appointed according to the last vote in this House." And the third question is, "What are the compensations for the work of the members of this committee?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8892	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8893	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I have one parliamentary initiative, and it is related to holding a thematic session of the House of Representatives on the subject of 'The Status of Agriculture in BiH'. Today we have had the opportunity to hear something related here from Gentlemen of Representatives, Honorable Representatives Jagodić and Mr. Niko Lozančić, just about this issue. And the seriousness of this particular issue and unresolved issues, so I'm starting this initiative because the Roadmap with the aim of creating conditions for exporting products of animal and plant origin that started in 2004 is therefore not finished setting up payments at the level of BiH with the IPA fund rules, i.e. the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance for Rural Development. So without it, without this institution, it is not possible to access EU funds for rural development, regardless of our status. And best practice shows that it takes at least three years to establish that system, and we haven't even started working yet, so in 24 of that direction, I have an initiative to discuss the thematic session right now, because it's really a very complex problem and one problem that we have and that's why I'm starting this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8894	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8895	Thank you, Chairman. I am glad that at least my colleague Ivanković mentioned some initiatives, but it is clear that he is a man of economy, from the economy, so in some ways we will certainly try to fight together to improve this situation in which we are all currently together. Also, counterpart Slavko Jovičić said we are asking questions, but we do not get the answers we expect. Accordingly, I have analysed what it is, because let's see, from day to day we are on the news, in the diary, in the informative, I don't know, all the forms, whatever is wrong, say the MPs are guilty and always show this parliament. However, I do believe that we are working here, each in our own way, as much as possible once conflict has, but in all that I have prepared some initiatives, or questions, so I will try to bring it up quickly. It is an initiative for entity and cantonal governments: 'Consuming that in a number of state-owned enterprises, which are negatively operating, administrative or supervisory committees, as well as administrations, are rewarded on a monthly basis by various basiss, as well as in enterprises that are successfully operating, and even more so, I am initiating these, in order to eliminate these failures and bring about the most successful personnel, to change the part of the law that defines the term of office as soon as possible, and in a way that they, in the case of negative operations, are necessarily replaced for more than a year and a half." Another initiative to the Council of Ministers: 'Because, as a country and state, not only in the past but also today, for unexplained reasons, we are not using the extremely large financial resources available to us from European institutions in terms of environmental protection, i.e. environmental protection, with the fact that this area is a great opportunity for our economic, energy and environmental recovery and sustainability, and since I initiated this in the last year, but in the same way, in the technical mandate, the government has done nothing at all, I am re-initiating that the new Council of Ministers' meeting at the state level prepares and in the parliamentary procedure delivers a law on the protection of the environment, and establishing an appropriate body that is instigating and seeking representatives of the EU, so the ministry, agency or commission that could adequately implement and monitor this area at the level of the whole country." The third initiative: 'As hundreds of people in BiH have recently not only paid dearly and suffered pain but also died waiting in line for organ transplants, it is necessary to take it more seriously. Since we do not have a law on organ donation at the level of the state, and no other favourable solution, I would like to initiate that the Council of Ministers of BiH prepares and, as soon as possible, put into parliamentary procedure this law which would allow the problem of organ donation and transplants to be dealt with positively." 25 Now And One Special
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8896	Please, three minutes have already passed,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8897	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8898	and you have already made more than one initiative and questions to focus on one question or initiative so that you can give those to whom questions are addressed to answer and if we make 10 questions from each of us MPs it will be inconclusive. Dear Member Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8899	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome everyone present. My question was addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers: 'Is the decision taken by the BiH Council of Ministers at the 94th session, held on 16. Seven. In 2009, which issue of border crossing management and maintenance is entrusted to the BiH Direct Taxation Directorate, it is specified that the maintenance of construction and management of relations at all 89 border crossings or crossings, 56 of them, where are the staff of the Direct Taxation Directorate present, and the other 33 border crossings are located only the border police officers and who is in charge of them in this regard?" Reason: From the information provided by the BiH Direct Taxation Authority to the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, whose member I am, of this home, is 22. 2. In 2012, it is evident that the state, technical equipment, management and maintenance of border crossings in BiH is worrying. The majority of border crossings do not satisfy the prescribed conditions under the Standards and Conditions of Construction and Equipment of Border Crosses. The Directorate for Direct Taxation in the Information states that the above decision is not precise when it comes to technical equipment, maintenance of border crossings, etc. I ask that my question be answered in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8900	Thank you. The next is Ambassador-in-Office Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8901	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, it is especially in the previous Council of Ministers that the activities of the Foreign Ministry were not at the level we expected. I hope the new 26 Council of Ministers and the new minister will direct this activity in a better direction for the benefit of BiH citizens. For these reasons, I would like to ask one parliamentary question: 'Will there be a rationalisation of diplomatic representations, especially in countries where it is necessary, and a withdrawal or reduction of numbers from countries where BiH has a greater economic interest? So my question is directly: When will diplomatic representations be abolished in countries where the desired results and effects have not been achieved and representations in countries where we have greater economic interest?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8902	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8903	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd have to ask two questions today. One question I would ask the Institute of Medical Art of the Federation of BiH, and this question would be both brief and clear: 'How much is the money paid on the basis of the diaries and how much is the daily in the Institute of Medical Engineering?' According to my information, which is probably true, that last year the Institute of Medical Engineering paid 1,790,000 marks, and 64 were employees, which would amount to just over 28 thousand marks per employee that it was divided, means the daily payment. And that's some science fiction, is it, that we have 280 working days and everybody travels exactly around 280 times in a year? And who and what amount have these diaries been paid to, and what are the personal incomes of the Institute for Medical Art of the Federation of BiH? My second question would also refer to the Tax Administration of the Federation of BiH and the Ministry of Finance of the Federation of BiH, and it would also read on several grounds: 'How much is registered in the Federation of BiH, means in the Federation space? Who are their owners and responsible persons, how many of them have those business units and how many registered employees or employees in these business units and how many are their incomes? Since the Tax Administration controls the payment of salary and salary contributions, it means it's very easy for them to determine how many employees there are, given that these bookies work in the morning from 9:00 p.m. to 10.00 p.m. until they're done, whether, all of those games, and there's, I don't know, one, most often one, sometimes two people who aren't registered and working every day without being able to get any day off. Then further, it means: How many registered bookies have paid taxes for 2011 and what are debts on the basis of unpaid taxes? And according to my information, which is correct, I have mentioned, over 42 million marks in the past four years, if I say, this information is correct. What is the responsibility of the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance of the Federation of BiH for such a situation, and have certain activities been initiated towards the prosecution for such a situation?" 27
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8904	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8905	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I have an initiative. Since we have a new Council of Ministers, a new energy, a new force, the Frisces, I propose an initiative to the Council of Ministers, means that the Council of Ministers does standardisation on the number of employed administrative workers at all levels of government, from municipalities, cantons, entities and state institutions, preferably through a legal solution. I know this is a big deal, I don't think there's a need for an explanation, but here's a brief explanation. We all know that most of the budget goes to funding the administration at all levels of government. I'm going to give an example, let's say, when I say standardisation of the number of employees, I think, here I'm going to say to the municipalities, that municipalities with 10,000 or 50 grand can't have the same number of employees. It used to be some recommendation from international institutions that an administrative worker in local self-government goes to 500 employees, maybe even big ones, I'm just saying to help the Council of Ministers if it's some measure 1 per 1,000 employees. The fact that we have, we know this constitutional order as well as everything else, but we also have different numbers employed by cantons without talking about state institutions. The fact that this problem has escalated in Europe and that we have a picture of Greece, that we have certain movements in Italy, in Spain, I think that BiH should start, to catch up with this problem, the big administration problem. When I talk about standardisation, it can be by the number of inhabitants, by the means available to institutions or municipalities, cantons or entities, by the size of jobs. And I think it's high time we went into one of these initiatives and this Council of Ministers' meeting and this Parliament, having all the experience so far, given the fact that an administrative apparatus is growing overnight, that it should be caught up with these problems. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8906	The second vice-president, honourable MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8907	Since it has already been 12.00 hours, I will deliver my three parliamentary questions in writing, and I will not explain them.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8908	Thank you. Dear Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8909	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In 28 2005 a Commission was formed to coordinate BiH youth issues whose primary task was to develop youth policy. The creation of a document of youth policy is announced, i.e. a strategy with defined objectives and action programmes from individual areas, which are undertaken by the authorities on the basis of professional research in order to improve the situation and conditions of young people's lives. The document was announced to see the light of the day in 2007. The Commission was established by the Council of Ministers as an expert working group. The establishment decision was amended in 2009 and the Commission moved from the Council of Ministers to the frameworks of the Ministry of Civil Affairs. According to available data, 125,000 KM was spent from the 2006 budget, a year later 185,000 KM. In the first meeting, the Commission numbered 18 members, and according to a new decision today, nine members: four representatives from government institutions, four from NGOs, and a Commission secretary. As a platform for the creation of the 2008 strategy, an analysis was carried out on the problems and needs of young people called 'Youths Need Youth Policy', which has been the first serious document with statistics on the state of the youth and youth sectors in BiH since 1996. Data from this analysis are still being used today, as more serious research at BiH level has not been done after this. The analysis, whose information cost 150,000 KM, can no longer be a platform for building a strategy, as after four years of publication it is obviously obsolete. The question I refer to the Ministry of Civil Affairs: 'In what phase is the creation of a Strategy to improve the living and working conditions of young people and until when is this strategy planned to be completed? What did the new Commission's call and does there even exist a plan of activity and who will fund it and how much will it cost for a new survey?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8910	Thank you. Dear Member Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8911	Dear Chairman, I have prepared three questions in writing for the BiH Border Police and I would not explain them, but I will just forward them and ask for a written answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8912	Thank you, constructively. Dear Ambassador Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8913	Thank you. I'm going to be a little less constructive, but I'm going to ask two questions very briefly. First for the Council of Ministers of BiH: 'Has the Council of Ministers taken or planned to take action in BiH's accession to Eurotransplant, and when can we expect to take action with it? What legal regulations need to be adopted and has something already been done on this matter?" 29 The second question is for the State Commission for Integrated Border Management of BiH: 'What is the status of the Maljevac border crossing at the border with the Republic of Croatia, and will there be a change in the status of this border crossing after the Republic of Croatia enters the EU? And what is the status of small-scale crossings at the border with the Republic of Croatia, and how will it function upon the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU?" And please answer in writing, because otherwise he can't, is he? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8914	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8915	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, although we are working without a quorum, I will ask a parliamentary question and it applies: 'Why hasn't the Passive Subsilence Agency formed even though the competitions and formal legal actions ended 12 months ago?' I would like to stress that the same question (just earlier, seven months ago, that everything was formed and completed), so the same question I asked at the 14th session and the 23rd session, and until today I have not received an answer from the Federation government. And I demand that I be answered why this question has not yet been answered and the answer is delivered because we know that March 30th or March 31st is the deadline until this condition with the Republic of Serbia expires and that, in passive subsidisation, it is huge means measured by billions, and that even to date, the Federation government has done nothing about this. And please respond in writing and as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8916	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8917	Thank you. I'll try to be brief. We are, I believe, one of the few countries where it is possible that there are important institutions that have nothing to do, and they have the means, the financial resources, and they make a lot of use of it, as they also exist, if not the most important institutions, which have nothing to do, and they have no means at all provided for that work. A brief example. By decision of the Federal Constitutional Court, the two ministries operating at federal level – the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education and Science – were declared unconstitutional because they do not have constitutional coverage for existence and work. At the same time, we have in this country an institution like the Earth Museum doing a job that, I believe, we will agree, is extremely important for BiH and the employees in it have not received the salary for eight months and there are simply no means to cover this work. When they spoke to the federal ministry of culture at the federal level, so the one declared unconstitutional, with a request to be provided with certain funds, 30 received an answer that the Ministry of Culture would be very happy to help, but there is no constitutional basis to help them. For this reason, I ask a representative question to the Federation Government which would say about this: 'How many financial resources have these two non-constitutional ministries been consumed through salaries employed and through total work since the time of the Constitutional Court's verdict to this day? And on the basis of this, I am launching an initiative towards the Federation Parliament (it would be normal for the Federation government, but given that some are in conflict of interest then I will bypass it): I propose to the Federation Parliament that as soon as it realises the Constitutional Court's decision to abolish these two ministries, and that the funds spent on their work, i.e. reluctantly, identify to the institutions of culture at a state level such as the Earth Museum." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8918	Thank you. Since the other two colleagues I don't see here in the O.R., so they'll probably give their questions in writing, I'm concluding this agenda point. We're moving to the third item of the agenda. In the meantime, I would ask members or club presidents to invite MPs to attend the session so I don't take a break. Ad. 3. A request from the Alliance for a Better Future of BiH's MPs to consider the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives Club MPs are 14. 3. In 2012, they submitted a proposal for a law requiring an emergency procedure. I'm opening a debate on this request. So we're talking about an emergency procedure request. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Mirsad Đugum, in front of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8920	Thank you. All I want to explain is an emergency request. We know that in October elections at the local level and precisely for the reasons that have been happening so far, and also on the basis of what several members of the Central Election Commission have so far stressed on several occasions stressed that we have a general problem with the conduct of elections and the control of the electoral process, and are aware that there are electoral thefts and that it does not work, if we want fair, correct and complete elections that have full legitimacy, and for these reasons we have gone to this proposal to amend the electoral law in which only a member of the 2.19 is to be amended, that is, to supplement this section to the electoral committee consisting of three or five 31 members that one, or where there are five, two members are from the opposition within the electoral boards. It is also in the position (2) where one of the alternates should be of the order of the opposition on election boards. This is the part because we know what happened in the previous elections, how many thefts, how many invalid votes there were; we cannot understand that just 75,000 votes to elect a member of the Bureau, or that in the election of a member of the Federation's presidency, 75,000 votes are invalid. It is impossible that so much, if we say by voting for three or five members, so many illiterate BiH citizens who do not know how to round up under number 1.2, and 3, even though members who are in committees can simply raise the question of that voter and declare it to be an invalid ballot and that we have a process which, clearly, gave the same results as he did in the general elections. For these reasons, we want to make it possible for the opposition to have full participation and action in election processes and to be on election committees. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8921	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8922	I only want two or three sentences on the occasion of this request, of course I won't talk about the content that is acceptable to me along the way. Namely, we had a few sessions ago also demand from the same club that the election law of BiH also be amended by emergency procedure. The consequence of these demands, among other things, I suppose, is that we have not received the results of the Interresor Working Group's work so far. So, if we had here on time and a timely report or some information from that Interresor group working on these amendments and additions to the Election Law, we wouldn't have come to a situation that now every other session we have requests for an emergency procedure that is logically due to the failure of this Interresor Group. And I'm going to support this request for the simple reason that we didn't welcome the results of this Interresor group's work.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8923	The word has the chairman of the House of Representatives, Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8924	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members, as chairman in the establishment of the agenda, I had to put this as a mandatory item of the agenda. However, I would also like to say that, after the discussion of distinguished counterpart Beriz Belkić, as a member of the Interresor Working Group, that the group on emergency amendments to the Electoral Law has submitted a report showing that there has been no agreement on the city of Mostar and yet another part of the Electoral Law, but that we continue to work on the Electoral Law regarding other members and that we are not late. So there's no delay in the matter of an emergency proposal. 2nd, 3rd and 4th is only the Electoral Law. And this parliament will be given an insight into proposal 32 of the Interresor Working Group, on which, as we have worked each time, amendments will be able to act. The same proposals we have today will be able to propose to the amendments. At the same time, you have all received a call, each political party, NGOs, the international community and others to submit proposals to the Interesor Working Group for amendments and additions to the Election Law so that they can be discussed on 2rd, 3rd and 4. So there's no rush or need to propose laws this way by emergency procedure, except for a political desire to go out in the media with their attitude to this law. I understand that, but there's no reason for urgency. Thank you. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8925	Thank you very much. I just need to say that lately it's been happening to us that whenever there's a point that talks about procedure, so this is the point that's talking about the procedure for discussion per article 127, we're opening a debate, we're getting into the measure of things. So, I really don't think it makes sense, so here it is talking about the request of the Party's MPs for a better future to discuss this law by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. And don't get into the story. And the promoter says and then tells everything he had to say when he was talking about principles. Please stick to what's the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8926	Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8927	Well, I think, Mrs. Majkić, it's no more than five sentences, including me and the promoter. So you're really wrong. We didn't even open the content story.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8928	Dear Ambassador Mirsad Đugum, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8929	I don't know why this tone. I don't know why absolutely at this point any, five sentences or ten sentences explain why this was delivered, Mrs. Majkić. If it irritates, and we have seen the same questions asked by two MPs, the same questions. And if the promoter can't say three sentences or five sentences and explain it in Parliament, then it's... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8930	Dear Member Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8931	So you didn't understand what I said again. You have the opportunity to talk about the principles of the law when it comes to saying how much the Rules of Procedure gives you. But when we talk about 33 procedures, then all you have to do is explain what's the reason why you suggest it is an emergency procedure and nothing else. So I didn't say anything beyond that. You will when the next session of the agenda comes, if that law remains, you will speak as much as you think you should speak, but it is not today. Today, all we're talking about is a procedure by article 127 and nothing else.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8932	Thank you. We spend more time discussing whether or not to speak but to the law itself. But here, and this is Parliament and I am concluding the agenda. We're going to the fourth point, Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH At the 20th session of the House, held on 2nd. 2. In 2012, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The Financial and Budget Committee delivered the report 16. 2., with the adopted four amendments which become an integral part of this law. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Here you go. If there are no reports, I'll conclude the hearing. We're going to the fifth point, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8936	A colleague of Živković!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8937	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8938	I would.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8939	Dear second deputy chairman Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8940	I won't repeat the need to finally get one of these laws in our country, in a country where genocide and crime against humanity just took place. However, the chairman opened, above all, a debate on the Commission's opinion which is negative, so the Commission's opinion on human rights, etc. I am asking why the negative opinion on this law has been read in detail and the only reason why the Commission has given a negative opinion is on page 3 where it stands, (it is very important for me to now confirm this: is this really the Commission's position or is it perhaps the mistake of those who have made this report?), it states here that the matter that regulates the proposed law represents a classical entity of crime and as such should be regulated in the Criminal Law of BiH. If this is true, the only reason and the only thing this committee has listed, then I think we are one step ahead of this solution. For me, it's secondary whether this question should be regulated by a special law or by a criminal law. If the Commission is of the view that what is written here is like this, then it should be agreed not to repeat this law at the next sessions but to amend and supplement the Criminal Law, and the Commission, as it has stated, seems ready to regulate this issue by criminal law. It's really a newspaper for me and one positive step if that's the case.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8941	Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8942	Of course, what Mr Bećirović was talking about would be more logical if people from the Commission spoke and would probably talk. I thank Mr Bećirović for his involvement, but I did not engage for the simple reason why I know more about what you, Mr Bećirović, know. We had two meetings of the Commission before, perhaps in the first attempt to reach some agreement here, i.e. on the Commission we had one proposal for a conclusion in the Commission report in this regard that Mr Bećirović was talking about. So, the proposal passed the conclusion to this House that this matter is being settled by amendments and additions to the Criminal Law, but it is not supported here. So, I have to disappoint you, God Bog I'm wrong, I must disappoint you that this sign and that signal is not a signal in the direction that something will happen as a step forward. So I don't believe it's a signal in the direction of getting support in this House. Things haven't changed. I have been on the Commission every time, and the Commission has not shown, that is, that is, that part of the Commission's members did not show their readiness to either of these two variants.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8943	Thank you. Replica, the esteemed second deputy chairman Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8944	Well, there's a replica in it, but it's not exactly a replica. I mean, Mr. Belkić, you have nothing to disappoint me with. It's clear to me what time it is on this subject. However, I have read the detailed opinion and I am asking and I want to see what the reason is. Of course, the SDP Club has its own clear position, and it will show it once again when we manifest ourselves around the Commission's opinion. But I want to know what's the official explanation for why this isn't going through. I'm the only one who found that. If that's the only problem, let's solve it. I think we understand each other until the end.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8945	Thank you. No more reports. Is there or isn't? Dear Member Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8946	Mr. Chairman, allow me, since I am a member of this Joint Committee on Human Rights, to confirm both the fact and the statement by both Denis and Mr. Belkić. The truth is that it was placed under the criminal law to solve this problem through changes and additions to the Criminal Law. I, as a representative of the SDP, was both for one and the other, and for adopting this law or through the krivični, it is only important that what Denis says is that this problem is indeed correct and that we have this problem through the law solved. However, yesterday I was not on the Joint Commission on Human Rights for the reason that as a member of the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs, I was visiting the Directorate for Direct Taxation in Banja Luka and I am sorry that I do not know what happened yesterday in principle, and these are all items that are correct. Thank you. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8947	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8948	Dear Chairman, so here I am, not to repeat what my colleague said, neither was I, as a member of the Commission yesterday, at a session of the Commission. But the least important thing is whether I was. I really want to always have open cards here, which is what you'd say we're talking about. Dear counterpart Bećirović, You are fully aware and everyone else here to move to the field of Criminal Law and there are crimes covered by the Criminal Law whoever did it, what the Commission has proposed, is just to extend this topic and put it on a permanent basis, now depends only on what form, which is vision and which will find a way, is to keep this in focus, and we are all aware, here I will now give you the answer on my behalf: never, when changes to this Criminal Law come, it will not pass. So if it's not going to be in the classic form of individual law, special law, then let's go to Criminal Law. Well, that's the same thing as the people would say, spilling from hollow to empty. I've been begging for a few previous sessions, and it's not time to put this in the process, and I don't know when it's gonna be. And this won't get any support. Is this a way to build mutual trust, not reconciliation? I've said countless times that reconciliation is an individual act, or someone he's mad at or not, it's his business what he's gonna do. But this concerns BiH and three constituent nations. It concerns the Serb people who are blamed in this way and by putting the law in the process, whether you want to admit it or not. I've heard it here and my colleagues, and they're all going to say it because it's according to international law, there can be no collectiveity and subjectivity, and the people are collective. So, an individual can do it. And we never stood behind those who were meant to be. But this way, as in various ways, the shortened procedure, the regular, the past, one time, the other, by putting, the same, is just a composing and such a complicated situation that we never go anywhere else. I didn't say this should be put under the rug, but this never will, while this call is at least Parliament, I don't know what's going to happen next. It won't be, it won't get support, whether it was form this one or transferred to Criminal Law or I don't know anyone else. So I'm asking you as colleagues that we don't waste any time, and you're mad all you want, or I don't know what else you're doing, or say who's to blame, here's to find me guilty, but they won't get support. So I ask you not to put this in the procedure of either the Commission or Parliament, or anywhere else, because there is no support from the order of the Serb people of RS. I have no right to speak for my colleagues, but I know about the mood of the people. He'll never get support.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8949	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8950	Done.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8951	Replica, dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8952	I just have a few things to point to my other Jovičić. I didn't realize this law condemning some people, but condemning a criminal. A criminal can be any nation. There's no name or name here. Mr. Jovičić, let me disagree with you, as much as I think we put this problem in the first place, it doesn't matter what law it's under,...for discussion and law enforcement, let's say, sooner or later we'll solve some dilemmas. Postponing the law is not, or any problem, a solution to that problem. In fact, I'm thinking the opposite: I'm thinking as soon as we can settle this before there's a reconciliation of people, people, and this is just a fact law on denying crime. I don't know if anyone is, you'll agree with me that you are, too, defending criminals, any name or name that he has. Whether he was a Srbin, a Hrvat, a Bošnjak, the rest, a Židov, a Rom, doesn't matter, a criminal is a criminal. And I think we need to start from this very law and solve this problem and that point that crime is a crime and we need to condemn it to anyone behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8953	Of course, for good purposes, now we've got two replicas. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8954	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, it's not about the individual crime, and we said, and people answered. Whether they were guilty now or not, I didn't, I said, or the prosecutor, or the court at any level, and I don't care, I don't defend those people. But this is about something that won't get support, that's what I said. I assure you, and you know that the mood of the people, this law will not, if we adopt it now, if we get 100% consent, contribute to exactly what you're talking about. I completely understand you. I respect your attitude. I respect every man's attitude. But I need someone to understand me, and I'm not asking them to respect my position at all. He won't get support and what now. I just want this to not be put in the process all the time. I am speaking to you for this assembly of Parliament. You can go through the Rules of Procedure and bring this back again. But again, we only have the same thing on the agenda, and we just put it in the public eye that we're going to do something, but it's not going to get support. Here, I'm telling you today. That's what we told you four years ago, five years ago when this was the first time. So, not to waste any time, it was just intensity, nothing else. So I completely agree with your views. You have your own interests, but let me repeat them one more time: I have never stopped or stood behind someone who committed crimes, who has a strong verdict. Whether he was guilty or not, I can't determine it. It's my individual right to say either the punishment is one or the same, and I don't need to comment on it. So, to go back, don't do this, I'm begging you whoever has an intention, propose, won't get support. That's the point.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8955	Every MP has the right to propose laws, as some other laws will come to order that someone else will beg not to be put into the procedure. We are talking about a negative report from the Commission. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8956	Thank you. Mr. Jovičić, it seems to me that you are very much expecting here. You expect understanding. In doing so, you expect understanding from those who declare war crimes here, while practically those who committed war crimes, including you, Mr. Jovičić, provide financial logistics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8957	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8958	I have a short need to say, because I expected this to end sooner and it wouldn't cause this much controversy. I thought we last said everything about what we had. And that's when I said why this law couldn't be passed. And that's when I said that the number of convictions to other peoples, that the Court and the D.A. were doing their job the way they were supposed to, there's no one who wouldn't support this law. Since representatives of the Serb people have only been prosecuted and convicted so far, waiting to be done with other peoples, we cannot accept such a law because it would mean that no one can defend themselves. So anyone who, if this law were passed, who would defend himself if he hadn't committed some war crime, would be automatically punished under this law because lawyers defending war crimes indictees would also be punished. That is why there is no basis for this law to be passed until the situation in BiH's judiciary is brought to the extent that the judiciary should live and until all war crimes are sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8959	I'm taking my colleagues back to the thought story. Dear colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8960	Thank you. On the Commission's opinion, since I was a member of the Commission, I was "abstained". Because the fact is that in BiH, under quotes, our heroes are their criminals and their heroes are our criminals. That's one reality. And I would ask you to bury war axes in this House, because we only agree that there was war, and whether it was defensive-landish, whether it was defensive-freedom, whether it was native or not. And we also know that today this war costs us over 700 million KM a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8961	I thank and conclude the debate. 39 We move to the seventh point: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention and control of the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH The BiH Council of Ministers of Law delivered the proposal in parliamentary procedure 9. 11. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis 8. 3. In 2012. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs submitted its opinion on the principles of the Proposal for a Law 13. 3. In 2012. That's negative. The Commission proposes that the House adopt the following conclusion: - The legislator is obliged to approach the new Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Drug Abuse. I am opening a debate on the Commission's opinion. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8963	Thank you. Except for these arguments, which are mentioned in the Commission's Opinion, which I support, I must also say that we three members of the Constitutional Commission of the Republic of Slovenia – this is Mr. Prodanović, me and Professor Kunić – against giving consent to the constitutional basis of this law for a simple reason because this law represents a classic transfer of competence from entity to BiH level. And it might not be disputed if we had agreed that the RS institutions had agreed to such a transfer of competence. But it didn't happen, but a perfidan happened, not to say, a devious attempt to get under the grain, probably expected that we would not read the law, nor will our ministers in the Council of Ministers read the law, and that we would vote for such a thing. That's not how it works. And what I would draw attention to, this is not the first such law to come to us from this ministry where at a small door one tries to kidnap another and seize the jurisdiction of the RS. If someone's goal is to send laws here that we're going to break and not make solutions that we could agree on, because this is one law that needs to benefit society as a whole, we're unfortunately not going to get to these useful benefits because it's much more important to someone than to kidnap something from the RS. Well, that's not gonna work. And my suggestion to this ministry is that in the future, unlike the current state of affairs, when the Ministry of Interior had to run, pray and bestow on seeing this proposal, the uniform rules for the making of legal rules are respected in the future. Here we also needed an opinion from the entity health ministries that we don't have, entityically. No single suggestion from the RS interior ministry is respected, so the SDS law considers that there is no constitutional basis for its adoption at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8964	Thank you. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8965	Thank you very much. Here, let me practically pick up where my colleague Pandurević left off. It's really one of the laws that had an unusual path. Look when the Council of Ministers passed. So 13. Seven. In 2011, the Council of Ministers passed, so he waited for four months somewhere, so it was 9. On 11th 2011 he came to parliamentary procedure, so he waited four months and here he is today at the House of Representatives. What's unusual about this place? The proposer of this law is the Ministry of Security. The responsibility of the Ministry of Security belongs to the Joint Commission for Defence and Security. The College of the Peoples shall decide that this is the responsibility of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security, and the College of the House of Representatives shall make the initial decision that this is the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Commission. So when the House of People does not accept that jurisdiction as a Constitutional Commission, then, in order not to wait any further for this law for the next four months, it is then that a rescue solution in the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs is determined in haste. It's a disaster. Given what the subject of this law is, it would be really interesting for one of the members of the College to explain how these things happened. I will remind you of just one more law, the Demining Act, which is also related to the terrible things that are happening in that field, only it has also been taken from the Commission's competence for defence and security and given, too, so that it would not, given to anyone who does not have complete information on that law. So we have a new practice in the House of Representatives that commissions that are not responsible are given the law. What's first? The first thing is that the promoter did not listen, or he did not pay attention to Article 46. Unique rules for making legal rules in which he says that when 50% of the laws change, the new law must be passed. So this is where it's changed more than 50%. But more than that, it's another thing, which is Article 8 that says two new institutions are forming. One is the Commission for the control of the abuse of intoxicating drugs or so on. The Drug Committee, and the second is the Office for Drug Abuse Control, and that's the Office for Intoxication Drugs. So, the Drug Commission and the Drug Intoxication Office. Also, the Ministry of Security, which has 200 people, forms another department, is called the Drug Control Department. What exactly did the Ministry want here? They don't think vlas's going to come up with it, but here they come up with, they say, 'other issues,... Article 8, other issues concerning the composition of the Commission on Intoxication Drugs and other important issues on its work are being edited by the Council of Ministers'. So we will do it through rules of our own which Parliament will not even see. And the Committee on Drugs brings the Rules of Procedure. Like us, we don't know that institutions, so you're dealing with the Rules of Procedure, and we'll handle jurisdiction on the other hand. There's one more thing that's out of it. Article 12a) regulates the work of another body established by this law, the Office for Intoxicating Drugs as a Multi-Sectoral Body. Point 16 lists many elements, what Miss Pandurević said, which would not withstand testing the constitutional basis. Of them twenty, how many are numbered, few would pass that base. Finally, without a single argument, it is said that we need a million marks for that. So, no argument as to how this bill's proposer gets to a million marks. It's past the time of such a flat-rate assessment. Well, it's important that it goes through, and when it goes through, we're going to regulate what's right with us through all the sublaws. I don't think we should uphold the principles of this law. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8966	Thank you. We are discussing the Commission's opinion which is negative. Let's see why it should be positive. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8967	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8968	It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8969	... I apologize, one question... about the Commission's opinion. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8970	The Commission's opinion, that's exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8971	Then, as a replica, I'd like to have Mrs. Majkić's esteemed representative not to discuss demining here, not to discuss the Ministry of Security here, but only to discuss Opinion, and this is a proposal that you just had according to my argument point 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8972	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8973	So point six, as far as I'm reading, the bill of ban, excuse me, point seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention and control of the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs, Proposer: Council of Ministers, with the opinion of the Commission. So, the draft law with the Commission's opinion. So, I guess I can talk about the bill. The Commission's opinion is that it is not enough, it has not been completed, it has not taken into account everything that should have been taken into account, as it has been done by an unauthorized commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8974	We in the College in the last term, and now we have agreed: when the Commission's opinion is negative, the Commission's opinion is being discussed; when the Commission's opinion is positive, the law is being discussed. Therefore, the agenda is written like this and the opinion of the Commission is being discussed. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8975	To tell you the truth, I don't know how to behave right now. What I've been listening to so far wasn't exactly on the trail of what you were talking about, so I'm going to have a little bit of it, too, so let me know. So it's obvious that the vlas thought it was an insidious attempt and kidnapping. Today's session when you analyze, look at the stenogram, from the opening of the session and here to this point of the agenda, every 10 minutes it has been determined that one of the institutions of BiH, agency, etc. is unnecessary, non-functional, etc. So there is an organised, sophisticated attack on BiH institutions and a complete sense of their existence. They didn't want me to admit it, it's so, there are facts, there are arguments. And of course, there will be an answer to that. We will also open the story of entity competences and the meaning of their existence and their character, etc., no problem at all. As long as they treat their own state as it is, the answer will be appropriate. To go back to this law. It is true that here, in the Commission's opinion, some of the reasons stand. It is true that the number of changes is greater than allowed in terms of not going to the new law. That's what I support and that's fine. However, there are some things left out, previous things, no analysis of the implementation of an existing law that has been on stage for several years. So the implementation of this law is almost nothing. Therefore, the relevant rules have not been adopted, certain institutions that need to implement it have not been established, etc. I asked a few sessions ago on the subject of surpluses, i.e.... drug taken from the Ministry of Interior, by courts, etc., whose quantity exceeds every reasonable quantity without the possibility of knowing how to deal with it further, because there is no such rule, etc. So instead of going towards improvement in quality, etc., we are starting to have a senseless debate about anything, because this law will not be, this law will not be supported and the BiH state does not need it. It needs it to be able to carry out its international capacity. There are obligations of BiH states on these issues, there are international conventions, there are commitments taken by BiH because the problem is universal, least said, regional. So it's clear that a man doesn't spend more time, and I've been prepared and prepared for another plan, but this is obviously about a firm attitude to try to eliminate this law, which he won't be able to do. He'll stay in this content that he is, the changes and additions we won't have, so we'll just make a path-position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8976	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8977	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Belkić; don't get upset, you have no reason to be upset. I don't see what any of us here in the RS today have hit the constitutional order of the BiH institutions. Which suggests that there's something wrong somewhere, which you're criticizing doesn't mean you're against it. I can't say that this law is right and that it's good and it's good to do business, and let's sit down and find a solution that we're all satisfied with. Well, it's inadmissible that someone is sending us a drug law and that with that Ministry of Health, it means there's someone sitting there, can I write about that law? I can't. The law is sent to the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. What, are we introducing customs, is that what we're doing 43 lagalizing drugs, what we're doing? And don't take any criticism of understanding something like us and priors against something, we're criticizing something, we're tearing something apart. These institutions need to work, to respond to the task they've been set up for, to make everyone here feel better. But if these institutions are a stumbling block, a stone of corruption, of course we should criticise them, but in order to be better, to respond to the task. Do you think these institutions can take us to Brussels? No, we're getting more and more distant from Brisel every day. And you know why, Mr. Belkić? Because there are people in these institutions who are adopted because they're related to someone, so they're godparents, because they're family. We did not employ them, but those who rule this country, as Mr. Lagumdžija said, no longer here, since before the fall of the Berlin Wall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8978	Thank you. We're going back to the agenda. The debate on the Commission's opinion. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8979	Now, what you're saying is I absolutely agree and we can talk about it, but it looks like you've forgotten if you'd listen to me for a second, how you started your discussion. So, you started with a sneaky attempt, you said this was an insidious attempt. Look, did you hear what you said? So what you're saying now is that every institution needs to be discussed. The purpose, functionality, capacity and the rest absolutely yes, but the way you went into this story by accusing someone that this was an insidious attempt to take jurisdiction from the RS has irritated me and brought me into a situation to tell you what I told you and what I am still standing behind.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8980	Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8981	Thank you, Chairman. First, I would ask colleagues and colleagues to respect everything here a little more, even when we address each other in a way and tone that irritates and is not suitable for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. Of course that depends a lot on home education, but here I am deeply hoping that at least the message will be understood. Secondly, the constant repetition of us in the RS, we from the RS etc., here, simply requires, it seems to me, to remind all colleagues and colleagues here that we are MPs of the House of Representatives in the State Parliament. So, no one here from the Federation has gone to the RS Assembly to attack her in order to have someone from the RS, or the RS Assembly, need to defend themselves. So a little bit of a way of thinking is going over. And thirdly, I want to and I really believe that once it is time for someone to realize that the state institutions here are not someone's other institutions, that they do not belong to an entity rather than to another entity, that they do not belong to one or two peoples and not to all the peoples and citizens of BiH, and finally to remind that everyone, from all over BiH, works in state institutions. Well, if something is ineffective, let's ask ourselves 44 about how to improve this efficiency, which may depend on someone's inertness, not because it's headed by some institution in Bošnjak, Srbin or Hrvat, or because someone is obstructing the work of an institution just because it may be a Bošnjak, Srbin or Hrvat. I have sent my replica, of course, to many here in Parliament, and especially to one colleague. I did not replicate specifically the provisions and content of today's discussion, that is, the law, but I did need to really, if nothing else, because of that first item I was talking about, which is also a good part of home education, to get up for a pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8982	Thank you. The agenda point is intoxicating drugs, the Commission's opinion, returning you to the agenda point. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8983	Thank you, Chairman. I must say, as for Mr. Belkić's criticism of my findings, it is an insidious attempt to transfer jurisdiction. Mr. Belkić, I have here the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent interior ministry in which entity minister Stanislav Čađo describes his torments in such detail as to come to see the bill at all. No, the Ministry of Security refused to deliver this law to the RS interior ministry even though they had to resolve it together. So when, after much trouble, it means when they came to that law, the Ministry of the Interior sent their very constructive, here are all the suggestions, the remarks, to certain members of this law, none of them are respected. The ministry, I'm not saying that only the MUPRS should have been consulted, it needed the Federation's MUP, of course, both entity interior ministries and both entity health ministries. Niko of them have been consulted, although it is the obligation of Article 16. Rules for consultation for the making of legal regulations. Another thing about the syntagma that we all use here, we MPs from the RS, we from the RS, of course we are, this is a House of Representatives representing two entities and three constituent peoples. Our 14 here represents the RS, the very name of this home speaks clearly.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8984	Dear Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8985	He doesn't know how much more meaningful and useful a man is. Mrs. Pandurević, I'm replicating you. I've talked on a subject on many occasions, and I'm going to say a few sentences now. It is absolutely your right to consult with both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, etc., but this House of Representatives does not have that kind of obligation. Some rules and procedures may establish a type of consultation, a type of coordination, etc. through certain ministries or the Council of Ministers. and it is not at all controversial, but this House of Representatives does not commit these opinions, they are a matter of previous proceedings and a matter of MPs to how much they accept it and how much they bring it here. But it's not an official way of considering things in this House of Representatives. You've been chosen in space, in one of the election units in the RS, and that's 45 exactly, and you're responding to these people for choosing you, but you've volunteered to respond to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So, not the people who chose you. To assume that there are other people living there, that you are not just a Serbian MP, etc. Not to mention the character and character of the Dayton entity: multiethnic, etc. So we're still the House of Representatives, we're still the people who represent the ones who chose us.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8986	Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8987	Thank you. Here, and I was... I was going to replicate, respecting the presentation of the distinguished representative Pandurević. I, unfortunately, wish I didn't have a mandate to represent the Federation. So I'm just saying here I'm not representing any entities here, nor am I representing an entity here. But since we haven't, otherwise I've heard more about what we're really talking about than what's on the agenda, and, if that's the case, I'd like the Commissioner to explain this law to us so that we can identify whether we support the Commission's opinion or this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8988	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8989	It's a replica of a respected colleague, Beriz Belkić. So, it is not a matter of agreeing and harmonising the matter of our goodwill, there is a document called the Single Rules of Law in BiH. And a member of the 16th says that it is an obligation and that it is prescribed that all the entities to which the provisions of the proposed law in question are to be consulted, i.e. to which the legal regulation will apply... So it's not a matter of goodwill, it's an obligation to consult everyone, it's one thing. And as for, whenever you're... we're MPs coming from the Federation, we'll respect that very much. But I'm an MP who's been chosen to blame Electoral Unit number one in RS and I think that... that's clear and if we say it some time it shouldn't bother anyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8990	Eh, have we settled all this? We did. Dear Member Nermina Ćemalović, discussion on the subject of Opinions, is that correct?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8991	That's right. Here I am just going to elaborate that negative opinion of the Commission, which I am a member of, means the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, which was held on 13. 3. and where we put it in the proposal, actually a proposal for a new law. Negative Opinion was given mostly because this law was not in line with Article 46, as the gentlemen mentioned, and in 63, Article 63 (1) of the Single Rules for 46 making legal rules in BiH institutions. In principle, over 50% of the members of this law have been amended here. The law has 103 members, and 54 are changes, and that's one reason. And the second reason is that the legislator did not request the opinion of the Directorate for European Integrations on the conformity of the bill with the acquis communautaire in accordance with the prescribed procedures. So it is not in line with European legislation, and it was in fact an obligation for the European Integration Directorate to give an opinion on the compliance of this law with European legislation. That is what is in fact and I voted for the Commission's negative opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8992	I thank you for your constructive discussion. Dear Ambassador Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8993	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am deeply saddened by the Commission's opinion which is negative for deep human reasons. I wonder if the respected members of this commission know how far the border of drug users in BiH have fallen. My dear gentlemen, for two years now, and ask around the police authorities, that limit has been moved since the fourth grade of primary school. The famous Balkan route that is inevitable, the former Silk Road that leads across these areas, is absolutely impossible to bypass BiH. In addition to the tremendous effort of our border authorities, we have daily reports of capture and interception, part, a large number of drug traffickers across our territory, it's a drop in the sea. Interpol cannot co-operate with countries that do not have a unique organisation in the drug prevention system. The famous American DEA spends billions of dollars on its territory to do so, but it helps all the countries that do it the same way. This political bickering, as I heard today, speaks of our insensitiveness to the problem we are dealing with. My lords, we no longer need to save grown men who spend drugs, our children die from drugs. And instead of accepting the legal solution as best as possible, that the more restrictive laws we apply to those who, especially when it comes to underage persons, help to consume these drugs in children, to be very restrictive, to strengthen the law, to strengthen the security and security measures in this country, yes, if we cannot protect ourselves and I can see that we cannot, let us protect the children, and we are politically arguing whether this law wants RS, you know, to take away some of the information, as I have heard from these discussions and replicas now, or really care about who they should represent, which is the people of BiH. And what's saddest – children... People, come to your senses, don't always be that homo homo homos lupus, be just homo homos, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8994	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the eighth item of the agenda: 47 Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: MP Ismet Dervza (first reading) Ismet Dervoz passed the bill in parliamentary procedure 19. 1. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis 8. 3. The Commission responsible for Finance and Budget Opinion on the Principles of the Proposal for a Law delivered 13. 3. The Directorate for European Integration Opinion delivered 3. 2. I want to tell you that we're 14. 3. In 2012, the BiH Institutions Audit Office received a request to remove this item's agenda, as the general auditor and his deputies were unable to attend the session and I believe it is justified. As MP Ismet Dervoz and as this is a mandatory item of the agenda, we could not meet this request, but since this bill has great importance according to the Office, the College decided to propose the following conclusion: - The debate on the amendment law and amendments of the Law on the revision of BiH institutions to the next session of the House of Representatives is being postponed. I call on the House to vote on this conclusion so that we can determine whether we open the debate or not. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "In" 24, "against" five, "restricted" two. Federation 15, RS nine. I find that the House has decided to discuss this law at the next session with the presence of the Office of Audit. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law on the termination of the BiH Court Act, Proposers: MPs Drago Kalabić and Darko Babalj, with Opinion of the Constitutional Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8998	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u8999	If you'd asked for business intervention, I'd have given you my word.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9000	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9001	Okay, it's like a compliment. Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9002	Respected...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9003	Dear colleague Kalabić, the least you can do is take off your hat in this room.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9004	Can I just explain?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9005	Take off your hat, and explain, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9006	So that there may be no confusion, ladies and gentlemen, this is the uniform of David Štrbac, the famous character from the parable “The Jazavac in front of the Court” of our great writer Petar Kočić. And, preparing for this one, which soon seems to me to be on the repertoire of the National Theatre in Sarajevo, and often in Banja Luka, preparing for this part of the agenda, I read this story by who knows which way, trying to get from the smart peasant David Štrbac of the village of Melin, home number 47, the cotar of Banja Luka, the district of Banja Luka, when he was in trouble before the imperial occupation and the courts of the imperial state, as he came to a solution.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9007	Before you go any further, please, you'll get your first warning.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9008	Why, Mr. Chairman? 49
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9009	In accordance with Article 73(2) and the Code of Conduct and Dressing, take off your hat in the room where the discussion is held and remember that this is the first warning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9010	To explain how he and his wisdom managed when she found no other answer to the imperial evil. And when he decided to bring the badger to court, the technical service wouldn't let me, here's another call for the badger to be brought in, when he tried to blame the badger, that's to say that he's overplayed when he didn't find any other solutions, and it occurred to me that it would be a solution for all our troubles to blame some badger, to condemn him and say that he, who's guilty of organized crime, for war crimes, for “Volunjska”, for “Tuzlanska” and to try to take it off from the agenda once. Because apparently when David says that his field is neither imperial nor Davidov, nor David's, neither justice in BiH is obviously neither Bosniak nor Serbian, nor Croatian, but someone's third, fourth. What we have tried to warn ourselves to say is that justice belongs to this state and these peoples, that they are sovereignly deciding on it, unfortunately, at this point it is not so. David Štrbac had the privilege of speaking to the dead emperor on the wall, of roses in his own way, but he knew that the emperor was powerful and that he was deciding, and unfortunately we have in this situation that we have no one to turn to, and someone else decides. I will say one thing, perhaps... which many will resent, because it is often mentioned in the media how Bosniak politics and Bosniak representatives have an exclusive influence on justice and justice. They don't. Here, I say here that they have no sovereign influence, they have a certain influence, but not sovereign, and what was the essence of our proposals in this whole story is that justice belongs to this people, this state, that we agree in it in the way that it happens in all other states. And that was our wish and our intention, not walking in on how it would be solved, I don't think we understood each other. Not for a moment did our proposal mean that there was no justice in this country, that there was no justice system. Whether or not Mostar will be tried for organised crime, in Banja Luka for war crimes, in Sarajevo against drugs and all that, that's the thing now, but there were very ugly messages about it. We don't think for a moment that this space and this state are to be left without justice and without justice, but that we are also to agree on it. Now there's some Šahbaz out there, sitting somewhere, talking to David, you're my friends, so I can't talk to you, he's been talking to them with "head gentlemen," you who are out there, who don't give what we're looking for, after a hundred years nothing's changed. Petar Kočić was a patriot, a patriot, often called to Bosnia in Vienna when he was doing what he was doing. Unfortunately, it's tragic that everyone has won this time, only we in BiH didn't get to decide about ourselves, we judge ourselves, whatever we agree. We can't do that. Here, the progress of last session was, we got a constitutional basis, last time we were heavily ordered not to, now suddenly a constitutional was born, and that's progress, good. What I regret is that those who have not supported the principles of the law have not in the meantime brought a counterproposal to say: this is not good for yours, this is radical, this cannot get obvious trust in this House, but it has our proposal. There's no suggestion. But there remains the agreement of all political factors that the situation in the BiH judiciary is not good. And what we heard today further, on the agenda, what you saw proves that it's the state of the state, that people sue themselves, judge themselves, bring themselves there... We have prayed that it is not good for one or two peoples or a huge number of citizens to be dissatisfied with the judiciary, to open a dialogue, to look for ways, I do not believe that anyone thinks that the whole people should be dissatisfied. But I think we need to open a dialogue and come up with a solution that this country must have that degree of trust in a judicial system that has or at least a country in 50 environments without talking about modern democratic countries. That was our goal, we have no other intentions. And we're trying to find partners in that dialogue. David Štrbac found what he found. He could've, if the Imperial State allowed it, could've stopped those badgers in front of the court, here's for the dignity of this House I don't believe anyone would've let me bring a badger in here. But obviously we're either mature or we can find a solution or we can caricate the fact that some poor badger is neither guilty nor obliged to condemn what the people are doing. Look at the number of sufferers throughout BiH seeking justice, the powerless, standing there somewhere in various places and no one will hear them, neither to receive them, nor to listen to them, nor to have addresses where to turn. And we're trying to make up reasons and justify why that is. All of us in the halls agree, let me tell you right now, don't let anyone approach me in the hallway and say it's okay, that it should be changed if we don't say it here and we don't open that dialogue up fast. And the European story and all the other types of integration mean that they lift it up, we have nothing really, really, we have no last intention. I got a parliamentary question today where people from the judiciary make fun of my question. I ask one thing, he didn't even make it, he didn't even do me any good, so let me be dissatisfied, but he says I asked something else. I mean, funny thing. I don't think all people will be satisfied with the judiciary, I don't think that sometimes we don't abuse, that sometimes we're unhappy with some concrete judgments and they'll always be like that, and we always have an understanding of the courts and judges who judge courageously and know they'll be dissatisfied. But they can't be at this rate. We can't put this many people under the bus and then ask why we're calling on David Štrbac. Why did he ask for it 100 years ago and get it, and why can't we get it today? We're not looking for anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9011	Thank you. We now have the meaning of requests and I'm sorry I didn't recommend it, I think it would be appropriate to bring the 9th and 10th points of the agenda together and open a debate on both agenda points so that we don't close the debate on the first and open the second. If it's all right with you, I think it was an emergency to do it last time. You can discuss both exact agendas. Ad. Ten. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: MPs Drago Kalabić and Darko Babalj The second vice-president, respected Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9013	I must admit that I had no intention of discussing within this agenda point, however, before I say anything, I would like to support what Mrs Hadžiahmetović said at some of the previous points of the agenda, which is that we present all our views in one correct way, it seems to me, safeguarding Parliament's dignity and all of us in Parliament. We did one important thing at the beginning of this term, and the thing is that we swore that as MPs, we would respect the Constitution of the BiH state. And I'll start with that Constitution. 51 Article VI. The BiH Constitution speaks of the Constitutional Court. Point 4. says, "The decisions of the Constitutional Court are final and binding." So in this country as well as in every one, there are competent authorities who need to decide whether something is in accordance with the Constitution or not. For those who may not know, it should be very clear: The BiH Constitutional Court, by its verdict 26/01 of 28. Nine. In 2001, it came to the conclusion that the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH and the Law on the Prosecution of BiH is in line with the BiH Constitution, which means that the organisation and functioning of the judiciary is in the jurisdiction of the BiH state. So that's how the Constitutional Court concluded, and the Constitution told us that... the decisions of the Constitutional Court are final and binding. I ask the question is it possible in one country, not only in ours, to discuss the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The second is quite a question of what is going on with the structured dialogue that has been launched, it seems to me, in June of last year in Banja Luka, where people from the EU have made it very clear that the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH are unquestionable, and of course we all need to have a dialogue on how to make the most effective judiciary in this country that will be independent and professional. And I think that's what we need to talk about. It would be good, therefore, if, in particular, I would like to stress that, we would respect the Constitution. In the end, on behalf of the SDP MPs' club, I'm looking for a 30-minute break.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9014	Thank you. It's a 30-minute break. I hope that other clubs who have not participated in these discussions will join us. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats to continue today's work. In the meantime, we put together a break requested by the SDP Club and a lunch break. I hope we can move on. Is there any need to ask the SDP Club to explain the request for a break? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9017	I thought it would be a replica, but it's obvious that "The Jazavac in front of the Court" has given up. Ladies and gentlemen, I answered the discussion by these two points that I spoke about during the first debate held on February 16th, although there is no particular need for this, because I remain at every word I said at the time. But in that discussion, I finally said I wouldn't participate in any further discussion. For principled reasons, I couldn't answer some of the questions or findings that were made here in Parliament and the visared truths and, behold, in the ultimate and preservation of dignity, and of my end, and of my personality, I am obliged to say the following. 52 As I said, after my discussion, so some have raced here to say as ugly an epithet as possible about my personality or about where I come from. So it actually wanted to disqualify my personality on the principle of ad-hominem disqualify what I was saying about an item that was on the agenda and that I was talking about, that's these two laws. That is why I want to give and means to strengthen the Commission's negative report which it delivered in the second business procedure and I did not want to descend on this so-called so-called. Mahal level, but because of the truth, I say about me and my environment, in which I spent the entire course of war, or aggression on BiH, I want to point out the following. It is true that I was the head of CSB Doboj during the aggression in Tešnja, and that is where the laws of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina were respected. About 30,000 non-Serbs from Doboj and about 15,000 from Tesla were expelled to the area. Almost all Serbian nationalities in the Tešanj municipality were armed by JNA and then disarmed without a fight, which is regulated documentation. There was no rematchism, although it was not easy to control angry exiles. All Srbin remained at their jobs until '92. A year. There were also Bosnian Srbin who fought in army units for the Republic of BiH. After one of them who died from a grenade today is called a street in Tešnja. During the aggression, none of the Serb nationalities suffered, remember this well – there has been no crime against anyone but Bošnjak. The plane bombing in Teshanca, where eight children were killed, the shelling of the harvesters – nine civilians were killed, 36 Luna rockets were Luna on Tešanj from the Vučjak direction, whether, from where the "Jazavac comes before the court". The police were also guarding religious facilities, churches. Today, a policeman is being tried for an alleged slap... by someone who's skyscraper. If this is the implementation of the BiH Court's strategy in terms of the processing of war crimes, here we are ready to take it as well. Extremely valuable Orthodox icons have been preserved, removed from the church into the bank's safe, not from Tešnjak, but from millions of different missiles that fired in Tešanj during the aggression. After the war, they were returned to the church and then taken to Bijeljin by the bishop Kačavenda. I, too, asked in the Federation Parliament, through procedure, to return it to the people of consolation, but it is obvious that there is nothing. The villages where the Srbin lived had constant police protection. It's Tešanj in the course of aggression and I'm responsible for it. Everything else here is a lie and a lie and I beg, for the sake of the dignity of this house, that, without reasoned debate, lies and slanders are not brought forth. And what is that, Teslić? The exiles I mentioned, the mass tomb "Bebe", camp..., Teslic Sports Playground, "Red Beretke", "Micini", etc., etc. And what's Doboy? Disco... camp "Bare", 30,000 expelled and robbed Bošnjak, barracks "Milkovac" etc. He says, 'President, you don't need Bosniaks to be reduced to 7% but 3%', I remember someone's words in Bijeljina, where they took their underpants off to men, unfortunately, to recognize them. I'm just saying this for comparison of the environments from which those who have been false about Tešnje and who have been classified as war propaganda come from. But I'm not going to deal with this problem anymore, not to bother you, and I apologize to my colleagues and colleagues for having to bring this up, but so that there isn't one puck in the middle from which I come and my personality. I think we have a much more important future, except to say that I am proud to have respected the law as a responsible person and preserved my face in such difficult times. And to those who are trying to downplay me and my neighborhood, I suggest the following: Angelina Jolie made a great film and missed their role in such a significant project where they could easily take an important role and identify themselves with some characters, but I find that a new film is being prepared where they should certainly not be missed by the main role, and the film is called "two mahalushes". Thank you very much. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9018	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I said last time about these two agenda points that it is impossible to warn each and every one of them that they will come out of the agenda. Respecting such a commitment, I have allowed discussions on these topics to take place more than three now. I have no intention of doing otherwise today, but be aware that there is a possibility that this item of the agenda will be at the next session and that someone will bring a statement prepared with numbers and letters in connection with the crimes and in Doboj, and in Teslić, and in other cities of RS and that you will be prepared, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that you will be ready to hear all of this. So, the commitment is to let it talk until we figure out for ourselves that it's not going anywhere. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9019	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would not go into the essence of what Mr. Mehmedović said, because you have, for a few reasons, warned us to stick to the agenda, but when it goes like this, then I want to warn you that Mr. Mehmedović here has signed an oath that he will respect the BiH Constitution, as I do, as everyone who sits, and has mentioned the aggression three times. What document and anywhere says that someone was committing aggression on someone, and here it was targeted and designed just didn't say Serbian aggression on Doboj, on Teslic, I don't know, the Bosniaks, here, there? What document does the arrest say? If we stick to the Dayton Agreement, and he's the Constitution in force, then there's a fine tragic conflict in the region. And I think we've had this, I'm not going to say countless times, but a lot of debates to clarify these dilemmas. If the Constitution ever changes and it says that Serbs are what one thinks they are, and that Bošnjak are what one thinks they are, when I say both Srbin and Bošnjak are not about collectiveity but about individuals, then I, as a legalist, will accept it. But while the Constitution is like this in which it says, I repeat, the gentleman and the distinguished colleague said three times aggression, and I will say twice, I once said, and once again I will: a tragic conflict in the region. And there are no features of aggression or, I don't know, any other qualifications that come to mind here in Parliament. And this exposure, I'm not going to replicate on it. Dear counterpart Mehmedović, you have today taken advantage of the position that Parliament – I do not know how to take the term, but here – to translate it into the prosecution or courtroom. No one has accused you here, nor do we have the right, nor do we want it, and you have now brought forth, of course in short lines, your defense that you have done all this by law there. Yeah, you didn't, I don't know where the war was first, I'm in a slightly worse situation. At least you could look with your eyes and hear and get information. I didn't see a normal person, when I say normal, in a sense that's gonna pat me down and say, hey, and you're a man, you're not an animal. I didn't have cases, that's worse. Now, since you're turning this House of Representatives into a courtroom, I'm not even into character if you're guilty or you'll never think I'm accusing you, I have no arguments, personally me, but you shouldn't be putting your defense here, and that's just to focus on Tesla, Teshanj and Doboj. Wait for the next session. The Honorable Chairman as if he knew, you will have a prepared presentation, as far as the Rules of Procedure will allow, all about this very city of Sarajevo where we are sitting today. And you invite us to peace and tolerance; in such a way calling us aggressors still in 2012 you will not succeed. I'm asking you to give it up.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9020	Thank you. 54 Dear Ambassador Mato Franjičević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9021	Thank you. I'm the last time, speaking of this, I've tried not to measure the story of these laws, but to stay at this procedural moment, at the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission. I warned and then, it seems right to me, because the debate on this topic so far gives me the right, I warned, so it would be dangerous if the debate needed and the dialogue needed to be turned into a monologue, i.e. into different monologues. Not to mention, for the sake of the economy of time and nerves, etc., I'm not going to go any further, but I suggest that my exposure be prescribed last time on this subject in the record from this session.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9022	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Member Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9023	So my replica is Mr. Šemsudina Mehmedović. ... It would be good if at the last session when the words, which I said, were spoken, were then commented. First, he wasn't at that session when I was talking. So he had to listen to the suggestions of the people around him, which doesn't mean they passed on to him in an adequate way. Secondly, in the context of what I said and related to the fact that 90% of the defendants and convicted of war crimes are Srbin and that Bošnjak were only tried as statistical figures or as clues. And I said that even the Prosecutor's Office has not closed the case concerning the Muslim police war chief in Tesnja Šemsudin Mehmedović, who today is the SDA vice president and MP in this home, whom mujahedins brought four severed Serbian heads for a present. That's when I said, and today I won't talk about what the witness to that case said, what kind of comment Mehmedović made when it was brought. So I can't say it in front of myself, let alone other people. I said it as a case that should serve to all those who are responsible or if you are not responsible, Mr. Mehmedović, someone should say that you are not responsible. But it can't happen that the prosecution and the court, as they are, don't prosecute such a case and all of the Serbian cases and all of the Serbians who looked at you over got the punishment that it is. That's why it is 1,300 years for Srbin, and this remains in the tracks. So I don't justify any crime, but someone who has such a comment and who thus receives a gift, which is a severed head, then what that man can talk about, what rules and principles that man can speak of. It would be at least correct if you didn't say anything, it would be in the respect of dignity towards the victims of everyone. Don't talk because you're getting involved with certain things that happened in the last war. And we'd best be quiet when we're not quite sure on the ground. And since you've already commented, it would be good if you'd commented exactly what I said. You've been commenting on everything else, but you haven't made that comment about what's the very essence of what I've said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9024	Replica, honourable MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9025	Well, look, it's obvious that some people are bothered by what I'm saying, but that's their problem. I have to say for the defense of the integrity of my personality, the end from which I come. I said the kind of things my predecessor used to say didn't happen in Tesnya. You can find as many witnesses as you want to find who you pay well, a guy named Dževad Galijašević, to be your witness to what happened, I don't know, anything in Tešnja. So when the economic crisis is then it's also moral, when the moral crisis is to people, as our people say, it can fit anything in a bag. So I wasn't the head of the Muslim police, I was CSB chief in Tešnja, so the Republican MUP, and it wasn't any Muslim police. So, the things you were talking about didn't happen in Tešnja. I don't know where they are. So if something else happened, you probably know, and how I'm going to be able to comment on something that didn't happen. Therefore, your witnesses paid, which you probably have, may they choose, to prove in court, is no problem at all. I'm willing to respond to every subpoena and I've gone through one torture by the Alliance for Change. Here I am ready to go through such a similar torture and by you if it means anything. Therefore, this is true, all other things are plantings and lies. Here, I know that there is a counselor in your government in the RS who, if necessary, represents for daily political purposes how some training camps exist in Tešnje, how there is some Al-Kaida, how some terrorist orders, etc. Let's see for once, brother, let's get this straight. Te, I don't know how the citizenship was given in Tešnje. So the largest number of admissions solutions to the citizenship of naturalised Bosanac and Hercegovac were signed by Sredoje Nović. I didn't sign, nor did I ever have the authority of any kind. Therefore, we had the opportunity in the last term to discuss the Commission's report on citizenship control, please read it and see for yourself, and then comment on something. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9026	Thank you. First Deputy Chairman, colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9027	Dear colleagues and colleagues, so here we are, following the debate here in the hall and on the Internet in the office we see by what time we here at Parliament are using the agenda point as a cause for something other than what the point is. So we are today, and so we warned at the beginning of the session, here to discuss the report of the Commission, the negative report by the Commission on these two laws. And then we come to this point that, in fact, each of us stands out here, I would say, sometimes my frustrations to all of this that happened in the war here in BiH. And I am among those who believe that this question, therefore, is the question of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office and their existence, has constitutional basis and that this should be discussed and that it is a legitimate question for the MPs to ask and that is why I voted for constitutional basis on these laws. However, I am one of those who could not support the principles of these laws, because they mean the abolition of these institutions. And just today's debate here shows that we need these institutions. Not like this, I agree with those who criticise them for their unprofessionalness and sometimes one-sidedness, but we need it just so we don't have here endlessly and in the future similar debates as we do today. And therefore, if the proposings had proposed some other, better by law instead of 56 of these institutions, I would have been willing to discuss and support it. But today, I'd like to ask that we stay on the scale, so we're discussing the Committee's report, and we'll see if there's a point of the agenda, we'll discuss them as well.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9028	Of course. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 11th point, Ad. 11. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) You got the report. The college did not achieve consent by making a statement today in the second round on the bill's proposal in the first reading. There's no discussion about this. We're going to the 12th point, Ad. 12. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law (emergency law)
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9035	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, frankly, therefore, the reason for this initiative was actually concern in the way these public broadcasters were reported. However, the bottom line is, I think, much more important and it stems significantly from these conclusions of the competent commission. Namely, this question, or the problem if you will, has its three basic dimensions, I'd say, or three layers. The first is the state of implementation of legislation and the institutional position of this TV system in accordance with the legislation. The second question is the state of the infrastructure, both the transmissions and those technical within the emitter, with regard to modernisation, in the first order of the digitalisation process ahead. And the third question is objectivity, professionalism and political independence in the work of these broadcasters. And therefore, in the Committee, in fact, and in accordance with the three basic dimensions of this issue, we have asked that the Council of Ministers prepare a basis for discussion on these two dimensions, namely the implementation of legislation and state of modernisation, and that the RAC, or competent services in that agency, give us their indication of the state of objectivity, professionalism, political independence. We can also request views from the public broadcasters themselves, including professional associations, but in any case I believe that the interest of BiH, the public interest, if you want the interest of the profession, is that the most legislative and representative body is dealing with this issue. After all, it is the interest of this country because the way these media are operating right now would, as I said here or somewhere outside this hall, but I think here, have acted destabilisingly and in much more stable societies than is Bosnianhercegovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9036	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Petar Kunić and the chairman of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9037	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ljubić has said, therefore... the Commission's views. I would like to say that the House of Representatives is held at the 8th session, held on 25th. 8. 2011 and the House of Peoples at the 5th session, held on 14. Nine. In 2011, he adopted the conclusion that a thematic joint session of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly's two homes is needed to be held in the current state in the Public TV system of BiH, with the participation of representatives of all relevant institutions. So on that trail was the goal of accepting this initiative and it was accepted. But I must say, at the Commission's meeting, I warned of one thing: that it was a shifted framework in terms of entity jurisdiction. I must say, I didn't vote since that vote wouldn't be worth it because it was an absolute majority on the side of those who advocated these conclusions. Is that entering entity jurisdiction? It is likely, if these conclusions are read in part, to enter into entity jurisdiction, because it is nevertheless a measure that exceeds the competence of the Parliamentary Assembly and belongs to entities. And, in that sense, you should probably correct these two conclusions that are attached to you. 59 Why do I react? Namely, we can discuss all things. So my point of view is that you can discuss all things, but you can't make decisions from the jurisdiction of another subject. And that's what asked me to say this. And the other thing, you've been making a big deal out of this question. Our eternal director of RTRS, so he's the last, I think, 20 years director of that television, which is untouchable and which obviously interferes in political matters. So he's a little out of his jurisdiction, interferes with political jurisdiction and doesn't stick to the profession. It's probably power, it has some power, and I have to tell you that there's also a scandalous nature of one that often causes certain conflict situations, so he raised such a concern that he accused me and Mr. Bojić. Imagine the lies, when I tell lies... then it's a difficult thing, I find it difficult to say it; Mr. Bojić was not at all at the session, and he accused him and me of transferring jurisdiction to BiH institutions. However, to be clear, Mr. Davidović and otherwise the directors of television in BiH are allowed everything, have unlimited power, no one can control them, of course, except for their like-minded. So, to conclude in the end, I will not vote for these conclusions without some modification. Although Parliament has made a decision and in these frameworks I will vote, so to discuss the service of BH1 why it is competent, we must recognise, this assembly, that is, this Parliament. Everything else would be out of frame, and it would provide a basis for these guys to build their own careers. Now, as far as I know, re-election, so he probably needs to get in touch with the public to prove his patriotism, although I'm convinced he doesn't know what a transfer of jurisdiction is. And when this House talked about it, he was in a rat hole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9038	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9039	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unlike Mr Bojić, I was at a meeting of the Commission and I am sorry that I did not hear such an elaborate from the chairman, Mr Kunić, who refers to the transfer of competence and competence. At that meeting, Mr Kunić, and we can see it from the transcript, said what we all know: that entity broadcasters in entity parliaments in entity parliaments who make decisions on them and confirm their statutes, but we must conclude and underline once again that these entity broadcasters are part of what we want to discuss – the Public TV system of BiH – and that they are all part of what is being treated by the law adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly. So when it comes to public broadcasters in BiH, then this parliament needs to discuss the system, the way it does not work, which is why it does not work, and how this problem that is important for BiH can be brought into order, as well as for all other countries in the world and the region. I support Mr Ljubić's initiative, an initiative which has already been articulated on our commission and, quite frankly, the first conclusion is well formulated, I cannot fully agree with the second conclusion, I do not see how the RAC could give us information on political independence and professionalism, but I agree that we must have information from the Council of Ministers on the implementation of the legislation relating to public systems, and that it would be good to get detailed analysis of the situation in entity and roof television relating to the structure of 60 employees, professional capacities, their national membership and everything else that is the subject of the problem discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9040	Thank you. Replica, First Vice-President, Honored Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9041	Well, I didn't expect to have this debate here today after the commission practically unanimously supported this initiative. Also, not entering the conclusions that we are going to draw, BHRT, meaning Service, Federal TV, RTRS are part of a single TV system in BiH that is based on legislation adopted by this parliament and I think it is quite fine that Parliament can discuss it. I'm saying we can't discuss the conclusions in this memo. On the other hand, there is very much to say because the RAC has its own service that is responsible for monitoring this reporting process, although I do not expect anything spectacular, so to speak, in that indication, but that is also an indication. And then that'll tell us something about cancer. But, all of us together, when we talk to each other, so over there in the halls of coffee, we know what this is about, which is why this initiative is being launched, and I am convinced, intimately, we all feel that this issue should be discussed. When I started this initiative, this is kind of a replica to Mr. Kunić, so maybe I didn't think first of all about RTRS because I can't look at it, I don't have a signal where I live, but I would also say, in reporting each of these services, I would find reasons, somewhere less, somewhere more, to discuss them precisely from these points of view, so political independence, objectivity, professionalism etc., etc. Since the signal crosses the entity's borders, I don't see why they would leave that debate to me only in the entity's jurisdiction and in the face of entity television. But I'll tell you what I told you, there are colleagues from the Committee of Witnesses, if anyone from the Committee and now here, if anyone duly says this doesn't have to be discussed, I'll pull the initiative myself. I don't need her. I think it needs the public of BiH, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9042	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9043	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, I'll just brief on the essence of the initiative that's been put here. Given the content of the initiative, it means the focus it relates to, which is the public media and public broadcasters in BiH, I think it is very delicate to talk at all about this topic in BiH because we have many others, which are NGOs, as well as journalists and media themselves, who, whatever you say positively or negatively, will find that they oppose you and say that this is not desirable and it is not good for Parliament to discuss it. I believe that a large number of journalists would say that it is not desirable for Parliament, where 61 MPs, who are actually politicians, to talk about the media, because when you start that story, then you cannot not touch their editorial policies and the material technical conditions in which they work, so here we have heard also the staff remarks and objections and various other aspects of that media and their business, which can be interpreted in different ways. Unfortunately, it is so in this society, in some other societies it is not. Only in BiH society will you hear that the media and that judges and prosecutors are simply something that is untouchable and that is over, because if you mention and start the topic at all. It's one side of watching this initiative. On the other hand, a fundamental question is raised, so this initiative, as it is written here, advocates a debate on the functioning of public media in BiH. And it is very useful that Mr Kunić reminded us that it is actually based on the conclusion, from August of last year, of this Parliament, where a thematic debate on the work and action of the BiH Public Television Service is being sought. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Here, I can wait while you do. If the promoter believes that under discussion about the RTBH Public Service should be discussed both RTRS and Federal TV, then I must say that I think he missed it, because all these media are one, let me say, the network of BiH broadcasters that, in a sense, touch at certain points, but they, we all have to admit and say that these houses are separate for themselves. And I will now mention it in this context, so the RTRS reaction that followed yesterday where the management and management of that media house disagrees that the debate is being conducted about their functioning and operation in the BiH Parliament because RTRS has a law that has been passed on an entity level, which legally frames their action and which has a founder who is from the RS entity. So this parliament has no jurisdiction over RTRS. And I want to say here now publicly that everything that the director of that media house said is absolutely standing. And it's nothing unfounded, and it's not an advocacy, and it's nothing at all, to say, his promotion as a candidate at the head of that house, who's going to be the director, we're going to see it, but I think, looking at the law that RTRS and the framework in which it is, it's standing, and it's all established and justified, as it was said yesterday in an RTRS statement. I am not sure that, according to this initiative, those results that the proposer is likely to obtain, and we know very well what reasons have been offered by the legislator of this initiative to discuss this topic. I'm not sure that's because a great deal of those reasons stems from the operation of a federal TV that works the way it works and now that we open a story about that media, we could probably stay here today and tomorrow to talk about how the Federal TV works. And I understand the reasons that arise with the promoter for this initiative, so that's what it means. This may also apply to the BHRT Public Service but, of course, I am not going to go into the details of what the promoter expected specifically in detail when he submitted this initiative. What I want to finish this exhibit of mine is that I believe that RTRS cannot be discussed and cannot be treated, or can be spoken, but it absolutely has no effect on what is going to be said here because this Parliament has no jurisdiction over that media house. 62 That's one thing. The second thing, whatever we conclude and bring down the debate on this initiative, I don't think it's going to have much effect or influence on federal TV or on TVBH. And here, in the end, I will finish what my colleague Ljubić said when he talked about the previous points of the agenda when it came to the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. He said that, now I'm going to paraphrase you, he agrees that there are certain shortcomings and problems and shortcomings in the functioning of these institutions, but he doesn't agree that such laws should be passed but should work on improving them, improving the work of those institutions, so he can't support those initiatives. Well, in that context, I also believe that such initiatives have no purpose but those who can and who are in charge of improving work, better quality of work and federal TV and TVBH, let them do so. This Parliament certainly won't be able to do much, because we know from some previous debates and in the last session, in the past term of Parliament, whenever the reports on the work of TVBH have been very negative, millions in the minuses of their business and work, whatever we have said, it's all that's left in the records and none of it has ever changed nor improved. That house has continued to camp as the tavors do, as long as it goes and it is, we will see it, but it means my personal attitude and opinion that such initiatives would not deliver concrete results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9045	Replications in a row, distinguished colleague of Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9046	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, correcting the wrong quote, first. At the 8th session, the House of Peoples adopted a conclusion on the need to hold a thematic joint session of both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes dedicated to the current state of play in the Public TV System of BiH, with the participation of representatives of all relevant institutions. And observation one, we are not talking and I hope that within the initiative proposed by Mr Ljubić, which, I say once again, we support. We will not talk about either the Federation of BiH TV or RTRS, or BHRT, but about the Public TV system of BiH, why we have jurisdiction safely.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9047	Thank you. Dear colleague Borislav Bojić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9048	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, so I've been patiently silent about this subject, and I haven't even attended the session. There is now a qualification here as to what Mr. Davidović said in his statement exactly as he said it. I am, first of all, personally, obliged to say that this kind of approach to such a ossional behavior that is inappropriate from Mr. Davidović, I am still seeing him from the National Assembly definitely and he thinks that I am there now. I guess that's why he calls on me that 63 is supposed to support my views the collapse of the status of the RS Public Television Service and the illegal transfer of competence in the field of public broadcasting from the RS to BiH. Well, I mean, if I wanted to say what I think about this right now, it would be embarrassing and I don't want to use any inappropriate expression, but really, this type of qualification is not appropriate for any journalist, let alone the director of a public broadcaster like RTRS. I don't know what the reason to bring this man down on me is, I almost didn't use an ugly expression, but that's something that really, after all, is that there's a debate about a variety of issues that can be held wherever it's supposed to be. The issue of making decisions is another question. Therefore, the RTRS report will certainly be voted by the National Assembly, not by the Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives. But I, as a folk MP, as a man who lives in this country as it is, the complex state community of BiH, put together, tailored, I guess I can talk about what I think. After all, I did not even express any kind of opinion in public, although I do have my own opinion about one, and the other, and the third service and indeed there is a need to discuss it. We need to discuss it anyway. What's the matter with the discussion? Is that a problem? But what makes someone call me? After all, it is definitely an attempt to disqualify me personally as a man, etc. Making political marketing because, according to a respected colleague, MP Kunić, after 20 years of TV management now needs to be re-appointed as director and found that he is building his political career by qualified me as someone who is here destroying the RTRS system by transferring jurisdiction. First, neither I nor Pero Kunić have that kind of power, and secondly, after all, I have shown enough when it comes to my relationship with the RS, and let the gentleman say whatever he wants. Many spoke like him, and Mr. Davidović's time will pass. And, after all, fellow Members, you see all that he wrote in his statement, let it serve him the honor. I just have to react because there's no point in being called by someone, and I wasn't physically present. If he sees me, that's his problem, let him report there to someone who can handle his vision.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9049	Thank you. Business? You don't have to. Replica, honourable Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9050	Obviously, Mr. Davidović has visions, and it doesn't occur to him once, he probably has a vision of my smallness since I chaired the government when he was removed from the post of director of SRNA. And that's when the D.A. went to sue the OHR. Of course, the OHR came, saw that everything was fine and informed me: Mr. Kunić, all right. Don't think we'll be counting here right now, those smiles don't be, I believe there's no cynicism in them. What was I gonna say? Why did I answer? I'm sorry, Mrs. Milica, that you approve. You're not the lawyer I know of, are you? But they should know that the Commission cannot make decisions and that it cannot change, transfer competences. They have other mechanisms that are in charge here in Parliament that can transfer powers, which are authorized. The Commission can't do anything. The Commission makes decisions by simple majority and there are constant voting on this committee. I'm not too loud here, but I simply kept quiet, although I warned it would be a sensitive issue and that it would cause certain reactions, because it seems to me to be entering entity jurisdiction. If I voted 64 against it, it wouldn't be worth anything. If capital is to be built on that basis, base on that formal-legal pin. So, what was I gonna say? This is not about the transfer of jurisdiction, which Mr. Davidović has gluffed that Bojić and Kunić are transferring competence from entity to BiH. So that's one thing, you have to say, that's one lie. I'm talking about jurisdiction, and it's Davidović. You have to keep that in mind, so that's one lie, that's one fiction. And I'm sorry that, are you at the first prima facie or did you kind of want to support Davidović, but it's not true what he was saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9051	Thank you. Business intervention, Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9052	Thank you, Chairman. The agenda is a statement of initiative, so a statement. I can understand that in the context of the initiative the Proposer makes some argument, but I can't understand that we are having a debate or if we are leading it, let us all lead it if we have changed the formulation of the agenda point. So please, Members of the College, intervene in that sense. So give us an explanation: if this debate has started, and it is not a statement of initiative, that we all get involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9053	I invite you to be patient, or I'll hang a board here where all MPs are alerted to return to the agenda every day or every minute of the day. But we're crossing the agenda quickly. Let's let it go, no one crosses their three-minute time, let everyone say what they think about this agenda point. Obviously, there's a need. Here's another replica, distinguished colleague, Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9054	So I see that my colleagues, both Kunić and Bojić, have found themselves in a certain way affected by what I said. I don't know how you understand that, but here, I'll explain it further. So, everything I said in terms of what Mr. Davidović said yesterday and his management of RTRS in his statement yesterday, which we heard, absolutely exclude that which applies to you personally, means as a persone, and what you are experiencing from that statement that he called you. Probably, personally, if I had been called there, and I would have found a certain fence from what he said, whether I contributed or didn't contribute. But what I said was standing, so I meant specifically and directly what he said about RTRS, which is that this parliament, and don't tell me now, confirm that you agree that this parliament is competent to discuss RTRS' work. It is known who discusses the work, his work report, the way it works, the legal framework, it is clearer to you than to me, perhaps to all of us, that this and we all know that it is the National Assembly of the RS and the founder of RTRS. And let us not now convince ourselves here in front of Parliament what is whose jurisdiction is because from what the Commission has concluded it could, as well as possibly the management of 65 RTRS concluded, that you support the debate, the debate on the work and effects of RTRS in the BiH Parliament, which is absolutely and compatible with each other. And if you think you are hurt and whether Mr. Davidović hurt you or not in his statement, I am not getting into it. So it's a personal impression and you have the right to react. But what I said was still standing, I say, is that everything that he stated was justified that RTRS cannot be discussed in this home because it is neither the founder nor the law on the operation of RTRS and the report on the work is known to be submitted by that media house.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9055	Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9056	I didn't know what else to call this, I have a business question. Do we, which is said to have no right which we are not from the RS, have to discuss TVRS? It's a matter of college. If we have to get involved in the debate, too. And if we don't, it's not right, colleagues and colleagues, we still sit here, we have to listen to what you're saying. On the one hand, you say you won't argue here and I respect that, but you keep making us listen to what you're discussing about TVRS and Davidović. I'm sorry, but I mean, if we're gonna argue that we're gonna get involved, too. If we don't get bored. I mean, nothing more, even if I'm being honest, but I'm going to do it on the second item of the agenda. That's why I'm doing this business to a little principle. Dear Representative Hadžiahmetović said we are pleading on the initiative. What the Honorable President would say, save something for the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9057	Thank you. I think that we are discussing whether to support this initiative in this form as proposed or proposed, and whether it is reformed and in line with this are discussions whether it has jurisdiction and whether a reformed initiative will be supported in order to even discuss it, so that everyone can be involved, of course, in the transformation and proposals. Dear Ambassador Borislav Bojić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9058	I just once again underline, therefore, my fellow Milica, and that we understand each other absolutely, so there's no point, it's not moral, it's not correct that Mr. Davidović shows up as a protectionist of the RS by qualified me as someone there a traitor and someone who's doing something against the RS by building a story for himself about his election. So, I wasn't there at all, man. And I'm not letting anyone, that I'm that kind of statement, after all, have a law by which, as much as that statement was broadcast there on RTRS, my reaction will be broadcast. And there's no point in calling me that way. That's why I reacted. And when we get into the metrics and we get into the debate, it's no problem, I'll get back to you on this one. So, I didn't say anything about it, and I'm qualified as someone who, I repeat, so you want me to read what it says in that statement. He says I supported with my views the collapse of the status of RS Public Television Service in the illegal transfer of jurisdiction from public 66 broadcasting from RS to BiH level. That's nebulose, that's nonsense. Davidović is the RS defender and I support these attitudes, I was not present at all, I said nothing under Bogo's love. After all, I expected you to stand in protective custody, first of all me as fellow MPs who appear here. I didn't say anything, I didn't say anything, and I have something to say about Davidović and RTRS, and I'm going to say it in RS. And I have no intention of complaining here in this Parliamentary Assembly about what Mr Davidović and RTRS are doing, and I will talk about it. And so I have what to say on the subject. But to let someone qualify me like this, that doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense. And don't defend that kind of approach because I'm really asking the question, come on, I'm gonna provoke you, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9059	Dear Ambassador Petar Kunić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9060	Namely, I really apologize to everyone... Really, it's not my habit, but I have some other things to say, is it stubbornness, I don't know. Where does it say that it's a transfer of jurisdiction? I'd like to hear it from my colleague Marković. Where does it say in these conclusions that it is a transfer of competence from entity to joint institutions? Read it to me and find it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9061	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9062	Well, you were saying now, you were just talking about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9063	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9064	Where does it say and where I said that the Parliamentary Assembly is in charge of entity service? When did I say that?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9065	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9066	It's one thing to argue, the other is to transfer jurisdiction. So, looking from a legal point of view, I don't think you're right. You're wrong, like Mr. Davidović is wrong. But he'll probably be the director if, I don't know, well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9067	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9068	I ask that my colleague Kalabić appear as soon as possible in a new national costume with a new costume and a new set, a staging, as you wish. Well, people, we're talking about the initiative, this isn't the agenda, it didn't even come to the agenda. I'm not attacking anyone, I'm not defending anyone. I have heard more today about Dragan Davidović in this parliament than in RS, as anyone mentions him. What's he even important here today and anyone here? This isn't the agenda. Please, because I've seen a lot so I can wait a lot for these guys to sign up. When it comes to the agenda, then you say if you're for the Public Service, against the Public Service, if you have jurisdiction over the RS, in fact television, you don't, but when the agenda comes, people. I'm supposed to hold this for another five, and here you are, holding me for 49, I'll wait exactly a minute. I have the right to remain silent. I don't have to speak.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9069	If it comes to the agenda. I'm talking about it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9070	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9071	Thank you. The Honored First Vice-President, responds to the replica, or responds to all replicas, as the motion of the initiative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9072	Here, I thank the chairman, I answered a long time ago, after my colleague Marković discussed the replica, but this is, since this is my last replica, I have kept that replica for possible answers yet. But since I'm afraid I'll forget what I wanted to replicate, I've decided to answer now. So, colleague Marković tried to interpret my motives, so about, I paraphrasise, she said: if Mr Ljubić's motive is Federal TV, let the debate on Federal TV or on BHRT, there is no reason to discuss RTRS. So it's not the motive of this initiative war with any media. I'll repeat what I said earlier. Reporting or action of each of the public media would give rise to reasons or cause for this initiative; true, some more than others. And if it turns out or if the RTRS situation is ideal, as you say, then one less problem, it'll be easier for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9073	Thank you. Discussion, honourable MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9074	Well, let me say very briefly, since this is an initiative vote, but I am a member of the Transport and Communications Commission, and I supported this initiative, and even after these discussions, I think we're headed in the wrong direction. We can't really agree on anything, so here's about 68 public broadcasters. Why? Because our standards are completely different. I was talking to the Commission that we can go to a dead end when it comes to the debate on public broadcasters, and here, as I see from these discussions, you know, we can discuss everything but not RTRS as a public broadcaster. It may not be public, but starting from the basic function of public broadcasters, which is defined by the Law on Public TV System and Services to promote the values of the people and citizens of BiH, it is obvious that it does not serve its purpose but is obvious that, while it is said to be a better part of BiH, it will become even better after this transfer of 400,000 BN TV. Therefore, I am afraid that the Commission has not seen all these aspects enough and that perhaps, here, and if we voted to discuss and perhaps have a two-day debate on this, on this subject, but in the end, we would not be able to agree on a single conclusion. If we're only going to discuss BHRT as a Public Service, here at BiH level, I think it's unnecessary to discuss this initiative at all, and then we don't need to support it. But if we're really going to discuss media space within the framework of public broadcasting, then of course there's something to blame. Irrespective in terms of being prepared and ready tonight to be in the prime topic of impact information shows, but of course it's our job as a representative and we need to be prepared for that too. I therefore propose that the initiative promoter withdraw this initiative, because it seems to me that it is not prepared enough and there is no environment for one real debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9075	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mato Franjičević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9076	I had no sincere intention of answering and discussing the initiative itself, I was willing to support her, of course, and I still had that opinion. I answered the moment I realized that this debate on the initiative was going towards actually defining the area of future debate, if the initiative were to pass. I strongly advocate that this area be as widespread as possible for a number of reasons and for those principled natures. First, because this Parliamentary Assembly, therefore at this level, has adopted this general framework, which is well spoken of by the distinguished colleague Dervoz, who is called the Law on the Public TV System, and is part of the Public TV System as entity broadcasters. As she brought it in the form in which she brought it, she could bring it in another form. I will briefly remind myself of the general fact that this Law on the Public TV System has passed, has been adopted practically without any Croatian vote and at all levels, from the Council of Ministers level to the level of the Constitutional Court, if you will. Of course, therefore, I absolutely advocate that this framework be as widespread as possible and that we have the right to be left with the possibility of both entity broadcasters and their editorial policy being told which. I personally can't track the TVRS, and I'm probably not going to say a word about it. The Federation's television can be monitored and her program is so good that I probably won't say a word about it either, but in principle I advocate, of course, leaving room for those who have something to say and say for themselves and about it. Thank you. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9077	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9078	Thank you, Chairman. So we were in a dilemma about what to do with this proposal, and now we've cleared up that dilemma. We will support the debate on the Public TV Service because the state of the BiH media is disastrous because it affects the state of democracy in BiH. Do we have the right to talk about Federal TV, from the RS? So I'm paying the TV subscription. That's my TV subscription financing federal TV. I don't want to finance something that's against the interests of me and my people. So are the people of the Federation. Why would they listen to attacks on themselves by RTRS and whether this Public Service brings us anything good or not? Is he serving to stabilize or fuel hate here? Therefore, we feel that everything should be talked about, and especially about such an important thing as public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9079	Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9080	Well, I'd like to say that there are really too many misunderstandings in this room and any initiative that will be the subject of an even greater misunderstanding we don't need. I'm asking the Proposer to withdraw this initiative, because if he doesn't, he does what we're going to do. So, in order to be able to hold this session according to this initiative, as the initiative's promoter said earlier, to deal with law enforcement, to deal with infrastructure, the objectivity of information, we would have to have the materials of all three public services that would be at our disposal and based on which we could be prepared for such a session. As a colleague said earlier, RTRS makes a report every year and delivers it to the National Assembly and deals with the team. So, the National Assembly deals with RTRS. He can say I won't deliver, I have no obligation to deliver. Federal TV also delivers its report to the Federation Parliament and receives instructions on how it will work. What's our obligation is BHRT. That's what we've talked about so many times, but we haven't moved since the beginning. Now we've seen that we're inefficient and weak and we don't have a chance to pull ourselves out of it and then we expand the story, so we have something to talk about, we expand it to all three emitters. I remember in the past term that we lost a lot of time about it, about the launch of the Croatian channel. And we have really given support here, we have been at our service, believing that Hrvat should also have a channel in their own language. But we do not think that the Croatian people will get any movement in a positive way when this debate is over in Parliament. So that there are no further conflicts, so I don't speak a word of this, I don't know what the director said, I haven't read it, now I've heard it, just before when my colleague Bojić read it, so I'm only talking about the way this session could be prepared. Please advise the initiative to reconsider. We have too many things to discuss, to make decisions. One of these that will only make misunderstandings we don't need at all. Thank you. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9081	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9082	Thank you, Chairman. Here, let me at first express a really huge surprise from MPs who have already had longer experience in the work of this Parliament. We had a debate on the agenda and I didn't hear a suggestion to get the point off the agenda. The initiative is on the agenda, we plead on the initiative and each of our views can be expressed through the voting method. So, the initiative officially, even the proponent can't pull it anymore, she's already in the process. That's one thing. Secondly, I must say that I am truly surprised that from the same colleagues in this House, and just before, I also experience that even some sublaw act is quoted as a pandemic constitutional solution, so the sublegal act has more specific weight than the Constitution has, etc. So here I am going back specifically to the agenda point. Mr. Ljubić, about your initiative, we from the BiH Party of course support the opening of a debate on this. We, of course, do not think that public services are folk services, they are part of an unconstitutional system in accordance with the laws adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly and to which we have committed ourselves among other things and have sworn that we will respect them. So far, we have also been initiators and supported other people's initiatives related to the debate on the establishment of the Public TV System, i.e. the functioning of the system or the failure of the system. But what needs to be specifically reminded of those who are wondering about jurisdiction etc., I just want to remind you that entity broadcasters are also public broadcasters. So, completely in the spirit of Mr. Bosić's discussion. And I would also like to remind you of another detail: The State Parliament has both rights and obligations and to discuss and possibly initiate the following steps in terms of public broadcasters and in spirit, of course, and in the communication of an institution that is an independent, independent regulator, but in some way in connection with both the responsibilities and this Parliament, which is the Regulatory Agency for Communications which has both competences as well as the broadcasters, entity broadcasters as well as private broadcasters, etc. So, in accordance with all the powers that this Parliamentary Assembly has, the obligations arising from the law and the implementation of these laws, we fully support the initiative and there is really no need; Mr Mehmedović, you are proposing to withdraw because everything is not yet prepared. We're pleading today, so I guess once upon a time there'd be a point of the agenda to discuss it. That's how I read the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9083	Dear Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9084	Thank you, Chairman. 71 I would like to say in front of the Alliance for a Better Future that the SBB will support the Commission's conclusions and that this parliament is responsible and obliged to discuss the Public TV system of BiH and I call on Mr Ljubić not to give up his initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9085	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9086	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm also joining this proposal, which my colleagues from the SNSD have proposed to withdraw. If we could start here to discuss how happy we are with the Public TV service, we could talk for days. It seems to me that at one of the sessions we discussed what it is with BHTV, which is co-financed together, etc. I must say that in RS BHTV is the least watched television, more watched by Federal TV, not to say RTRS. But here we got involved in some things that were exclusive to jurisdiction and management in RTRS, and the National Assembly, and the Government of the RS, so it all came down that something didn't work in the TVRS and in that Public TV service. I think it would be best to pull this off, and therefore I am to prepare quality material about which role and what importance public TV services give, that is, the very BHTV service that we pay together, the service in which, take a look, news from the RS is somewhere in the tenth place or almost nothing. For these reasons, if you'll prepare yourself well and let's discuss this matter in a good way, let's change some things. For this is what Mr. Bosić said: so do we. These funds are shared on the Federal, RTRS and the public broadcaster BH. We therefore have the right to decide and have the right in a certain way and to say a few things in a way that will inform citizens in a better way what we are discussing. We can't influence private media, because what's more sensational is their circulation better, but we can influence these media in terms of what's going to convey real information, not what we like but what's objective and what the public needs to know. Here, if we're going to honestly how it all works, so this RAC director is seven years old and we're not able to make a change there. Therefore, things don't work properly. Here, in that sense, I suggest that this be withdrawn and I would ask those who, in some way, mention the Director, since a man is unable to respond, might not be well, but I do not support that anyone attacks the MPs...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9087	Dear Ambassador Mladen Bosić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9088	So not only public broadcasters, but also RAC and the entire media reform system, the public media that was done here, I don't know how many years ago, is catastrophic. And I guess we should open up a story about it. I'm paying the subscription. I'm not happy with what I'm watching on television, not on any of the three public broadcasters. I see these emitters serve the narrow political elites that rule in two entities. And I'm paying him to talk against me. He doesn't give the opposition access to tell them what he thinks about things. I'm not just talking about 72 RTRS, I'm talking about federal TV. And this people didn't deserve such public broadcasters. At least he shouldn't pay them out of his pockets. Therefore, in this debate, we will ask to delete the public service to be financed from the pockets of non-serving citizens. Let him be financed by the political elite he's working for. Let them pay out of the budget, even if they're citizens' funds again. We have a situation in the RS that if you don't pay three bills, they come to take your chicken and pig, and I don't know what, the situation in the Federation doesn't pay much of the population, and there's no coincidence. And I guess it's clear that these are all the conditions that are urgently called for to open a debate on the problem. Therefore, not Davidović, but anyone can't tell us what we can talk about and what we can discuss and what we can't discuss. So we've been chosen here to give our opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9089	Thank you. The word has been held in the debate by the chairman of the House of Representatives, Mr Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9090	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members, I want to talk about two things. One is the problem that we come to every day more and more, and that is how to get the initiatives that are supported here in Parliament to put them in a position to be adequately discussed on the agenda. We have a flood of initiatives, not only today in the agenda, but you also saw in the course of asking parliamentary questions. I am not preventing any MP from having the right to propose an initiative. I ask Parliament: When we adopt this initiative, how difficult is it to ensure that it comes in quality on the agenda? Looking at this initiative on which today is the agenda, look only at the conclusions that are there, the way to prepare the materials is set. Do not let the College be, because there was no agreement here in Parliament, guilty because this item of the agenda will not be put on the agenda very quickly in the future or not be stored in quality. The second thing is that we who have been sitting in this Parliament for a long time have witnessed that in every Parliament's assembly there are topics that always come on the agenda. One of the topics is this one. And in the last term, not one home but both homes at the joint session discussed this issue several times. I'd just like to give you a stenogram from these sessions and discussions that were held here all day long. And then we got from the same ones who asked not to discuss them, not just calls to come to them personally, but they came here with a bunch of material that showed how well they were doing. And that's when we used to praise TVRS, cram federal TV, and no one had any nice words about BHRT. And then we talked about the Croatian channel and suggested the conclusions already made by the Constitutional Court, protecting the vital national interest of the Hrvat, said the channel needed to be made. And we also talked about when we cross the internal conflicts in RS, here I mention RS, about who is on TV, in RTRS whose political programme is being implemented, we will come up with questions why the system is not being formed, the public television system in BiH, and that is a national issue. It's a national issue where we in the RS think rotten apples can't make apples together. Where a TV system is positive every day and every year has a positive report and should be drawn up with a system that is in deep financial depth. And then 73 we're talking about the national interest of the RS, not the interparty conflict. And it'll be on the agenda. So I'm talking about some points being hard to prepare, some points being talked about every day, and we don't come up with a solution; when you're voting to support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9091	I thank the esteemed representative, Milorad Živković. The next word came from the esteemed representative Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9092	Well, I must say, Mr. Chairman, that like most MPs, I didn't mean to get involved in this debate because it was an initiative. However, the debate on the initiative itself has given us a number of knowledge and a number of facts. Here, I am pleased today that for the first time I have heard in Parliament and otherwise in political life that the Director interferes in politics and that the Director affects politics. So far, we have had a problem in BiH that politics interferes in the media, in the work of broadcasters, in the software content, in the minority of everything that is related to the media. And today I am pleased to hear that fact from Professor Kunić and I believe, it is a very serious MP, and that is why I am one of the supporters if it is possible for this debate to be with the presence of these directors, even though, for example, a part of my colleagues from the party asked to do so because it was not prepared. But really this fact that directors can get involved in the media is something new to me. Here, I have to say that I'm one of those guys who monitors programs and I can often track RTRS because I'm from Gradac and I'm following that part there and I can watch and I can tell you that all three of our emitters, both state and entity broadcasters, have very good programs. For example, cartoons are seen by children on both federal TV and RTRS, and for God's sake on state TV. So there are joint programs that deserve attention. [[Common discussion]] I'm really... serious and I'm not going to keep counting, because you're a little...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9094	Thank you. Dear Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9095	I am pleased to release the moment of this beautiful mood in the Parliamentary Assembly, which I must say that I haven't experienced in a long time, so, if it was thanks to cartoons, thank you very much. I would like to say that in this debate, we are having a debate, instead of just pleading on the initiative, we forget and selectively only take what suits us from what we want to treat public broadcasters in BiH, individually not 74 talk about the system. Mr. Živković says it's hard to prepare a debate like this. Mr. Živković, it was very difficult in '95. And '96. the years in RTVBiH to withstand an experiment of the international community that led to this. Because what's in effect now, what you say is difficult to talk about, is an experiment from the international community that opened a wide field for these difficult conversations. And where is the profession, and where is the attitude towards citizens, and where is the attitude to public broadcasters' tasks that are completely clear and can be taxed? Whether RTRS speaks uglyly of SBB, whether FTV speaks uglyly of SDS gentlemen or of you, whether BHRT mentions no one, loves SDA. As far as we're concerned, we're discussing public broadcasters. When we talk about public broadcasters, we talk about a service that should serve citizens. Mr. Ljubić's idea of starting this debate is absolutely in place if it is treated from this angle, not from the corner of what Davidović said today or yesterday or what one of the directors of the Federal or BHRT said. Allow me here, today you have not allowed me, and you have dealt with this very quickly, that the debate is being held and spoken, and that could have been said in the Rules of Procedure about what is important for the citizens of BiH to review the effects of BiH institutions. You pushed it away after a brief procedure, and you didn't even give me the opportunity to plead as a proposer. And now you want to keep us from talking about what's important for BiH citizens through such an important thing as a public broadcaster. Mr. Ljubić, you don't need to withdraw this initiative. What's hard to prepare, so please be nice, Mrs. Majkić is a role model for all of us. You read 500 pages of the Ministry of Security report, you can quote every item in these reports, and you cannot prepare what is sent to public broadcasters. Here, I'll help you, it's a profession for me, I can help you prepare for the debate, because it will be needed by this country for what awaits us in the EU. Thank you very much, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9096	Replica, a respected representative, chaired by Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9097	Dear colleague Dervoz, I think that from a relaxed atmosphere like this, you have unnecessarily come into a position to honor me for something you had no reason to. Yes, you had no reason because the president of your club was at a meeting yesterday at an extended college where it was agreed that he would be asked here to vote on the conclusion and to postpone the debate because the chief auditor had a car accident in his family, in which his son died, and two auditors were on the official trip. And I think collegiate or at least minimum courtesy to respect their request for your law to be discussed at the next session. And everyone accepted it unanimously, as far as I could see, except for you and your party who didn't mind yesterday. You didn't ask for business intervention, all you asked for was a discussion, and I put it to the vote before that. You had no reason to honor me. On the other hand, when you spend, please, when my well-intentioned suggestion to read the conclusions our commission has made, in which the Council of Ministers is asked to do something, it is a matter of what time this Council of Ministers can do. The second horror, which the Commission also said, will the RAC ever deliver this material to us, which is in the second conclusion. And the third thing, when the director of RTRS tells you that you have no right to discuss it, and I send him a request to deliver at least a report on the work last year, the question of whether he will deliver it. Put yourself in a position where I feel 75 that I have difficulty making adequate preparations for this item on the agenda. And you honor me. You had no right to do both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9098	Thank you. The following came to the debate, the esteemed representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9099	Thank you. I'd like to be a member of the Transport and Communications Commission, too, possibly a few words to say. Since we have passed, in fact, on the Commission this week we have taken such a stand, I am certainly also committed to having a public debate on public broadcasters. What I would personally like to point out, that personally when we talk about our public broadcasters above all Federal TV, RTRS, and others, believe me absolutely not to be watched. I also set out for tax, but I believe that the software content of these television houses, in my opinion, absolutely does not make me watch that program. I'm not going to say, I understand everything to talk about, but the software content that only speaks about the crime of the widest proportions, the murders, the drugs, the smuggling, I don't know what everything, and morally least, I certainly don't want to watch that kind of program, because basically I want to hear something fresher, normal, more positive. And so I'd like to ask everyone to take this situation seriously together. I think the public debate on public broadcasters is very urgent, in my opinion. Otherwise, look, these are systems that have learned in the right system, or pure monopolies. They are aware that they receive certain means; they spend them as they will, in fact, in the spirit of a good master. If they had a little look at private broadcasters fighting for party acquisitions and, after all, how interesting programs they have, I think a different picture would look different with them. But it's all a sign and their intricacies, both in technical and technological terms, and in organisational, economic, in fact, it all comes down to that policy anyway. I feel that this debate is necessary and I would ask that as soon as possible. And do we talk about depth, about width, about not knowing, I think we should talk about all the details and find the best solution. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9100	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the 17th point of the agenda: Ad. 17. Report on the work of the 2011 Representative House Commission: (a) Constitutional Commission b) Commission on Foreign Affairs c) Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs d) Commission on Transport and Communications e) Commission on Finance and Budget f) Commission on Gender Equality 76 A report on the work of the House of Representatives committee you have received. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Moving to 18th point, Ad. 18. Report on the work of the joint committees of both homes for 2011: (a) Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs (b) Joint Committee on the Control of the work of the BiH Security Agency (c) Joint Commission on Defence and Security of BiH d) Joint Commission on Economic Reform and Development (e) Joint Commission on European Integrations (f) Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9103	Thank you, Mr. President. Here are these two agenda points, in essence, the report on the work of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in the broadest sense. And I waited within the framework of the first one where there was only a report on the work of the House of Representatives, or his commissions. We have no interest in talking about it, so I volunteered within this second point where both work and home are united. All of us, here for over a year and a few days, are sitting in these benches and here we are from session to session trying to spend time trying to get the captain that the CCI is recording to us at least grow a little bit. But no matter how hard we try, and no matter how much we invent irrational subjects in this House, our captain is weak again. Today, all day long, I've been trying to make a joke today, although it's not exactly the time for any jokes, so I said it would be good if that one proposal for a law on the prevention of drug abuse was explained by the motion that we knew the reasons why he proposed it. So I thought I'd ask a question through the MPs' questions, but if I got an answer from one of the ministers today, and that would probably be funny, because we haven't had anyone to ask all the time, we don't have any right now. We are trying to make this public, who is otherwise freaked out by what we do and what we don't do, to entertain and debates that have no results. We discuss initiatives, discuss information, discuss some proposals for amendments and amendments to the law, not to fix us, not to solve some of our problems, 77, but to spend time, or to take advantage of the opportunity to tell each other what we thought 10, 15 years ago, or to try to cure some of our frustrations because of what was happening to us, what was happening to us or what was going to happen to us. The fundamental issues here are not discussed, because we don't initiate them and I don't think either of us MPs would like anyone to be offended, but as an individual, there's not enough capacity to suggest essential solutions here. We have 500,000 least unemployed in BiH, we tend to increase that number, instead of even stagnating last year. We have over the last 15 years a great proportion and imbalance, export ratio - imports, we have garbage that is imported into BiH, so through the processing of sales to the citizens of this country to eat it, to consume it as food. Today I thought, when an esteemed colleague explained well, I belong to the category of those who violate that smoking ban law, yes, yes, but he's right. However, there are many laws in this country that no one respects, that no one implements. This morning, I tried to warn through one of the parliamentary issues of crime within the institutions that are being done directly at the expense of the country's citizens, to the harm of this country. Do you think anyone noticed it, do you think someone in the Council of Ministers is going to open a debate about it? Do you think that's why someone will answer, do you think the BiH Prosecutor's Office, both cantonal and municipal and entityal, will launch any investigation into these matters? No, don't worry. Because we favor such a condition, because we have never found the strength to call anyone to account for any of this. One of our roles except for this legislative and supervisory function. The minimum minimum is, and I really expected that they would try this, and that's what the promises were, the minimum minimum is to ensure the respect of this home from those we appointed. Today we see well what respect it is and how I fully respect the explanation that the Honored President Živković said about the weight of preparing for the realization of the conclusions that we make. If it wasn't for that, I understand him, because here in the last session I had the same problems he now has and now the College has; no one respects the conclusions of this home, no one has the obligation to realize them. Do you remember how many conclusions we adopted through the review report, do you remember what we decided, do you remember what we were in charge of and what institutions? And can anyone tell me if one of those conclusions has been realized? Here's what I'm saying is it's not one. Shall we call someone to account? We won't. It prevents us from offending each other, and I have to say a little bit, or a little bit more subtle, or a little less subtlely insult, insult, and show that here's a topic we might know more about than the other one, rather than trying to make one single step. I believe and I would like to, I would not like to be misunderstood, I had to do a little ironic, and the debate on the recent subject, I think that my colleague Bosić is the best, with all the respect you've said, best presented in essence what is the point of the debate on public media, the public system and services. However, someone said it well because some of us have some to protect, some of us don't have or could just attack everything, and I will support it, let's just say, that we're discussing it, but I'm not, I have to say, the closest I'm to this part that the Honorable President has spoken about; I don't believe that we're going to have a chance to discuss it any time soon, and I don't believe that we're going to have a serious law that we're going to discuss here at this session. And I don't believe it, no matter how many times we repeat it, and just some points we repeat from session to session for the fourth, fifth time and spend all our emotional charges around those points, even though we know in advance that there's nothing of adopting those points. But that's probably to justify why we're here, to justify why this Parliament exists and why we in these committees, because I haven't forgotten what the topic of the agenda is: the report on the work of the 78 committees of this home, here, we've gone without debate and now we're discussing reports on the work of the joint committees of both homes. Those reports are correct, they're written the way they are. If we were to look qualitatively, I think the commissions did their job correctly, but when it comes to quantitative comparison, if we were to add up everything they've done, it's a little bit for one commission. In one serious parliament, in one serious work, in one serious one, but some will say so we are not to blame, there are no proposals for new laws, there are no proposals for new decisions, and we have to work as something. There's no suggestion, and we are guilty, because we're used to all the calls that suit us that we don't really respond. They know who they're responding to, and that's why I'm going to ask at the end of this debate, I'm going to support these reports, because they can't be any different than they are, even if we try to protect ourselves, so to speak, each other, from unnecessary insults, from unnecessary disqualifications. We're all about the same position, we're all in the same pot, so to speak. I am not sure that we will soon find so much in common, so to speak, that we can seriously think about resolving serious issues, which are why this House exists and why citizens in this country expect us to, whether we come from the Federation, whether we come from the RS, whether they are these or those ethnicities, expect us to finally solve at least one of the problems of this country. But here, through the discussions we're having today, I don't believe we're going that way, and I think we're even moving well away from such a task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9104	Replica, honourable MP Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9105	Very, very short. 99% agree with Mr. Lozančić, only one thing he left out to say. So we have a parliamentary majority here, we have the Council of Ministers elected. So all these questions and this story is according to this parliamentary majority and according to this Council of Ministers for which we, here from the SBiH, have said: we will wait for a while. Why don't you talk to these people about what they're doing? Are there gonna be serious questions here, serious laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9106	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirza Kušljugić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9107	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I would like to support my colleague Lozančić's discussion in the sense that we do not have to wait for the Council of Ministers to put important agendas to be discussed in this House. We will soon have a work plan that will adopt the College. He'll be based on our suggestions and suggestions and it's just a question of whether or not we want to discuss serious matters. I'll remind you, I went with an initiative on a serious debate in this House about six months ago. We will have to talk about it eventually, there have been stories about the analysis of the functioning of the electricity sector in BiH, it is waiting for us on the European path, it is one of the 79 most important areas we will discuss, and it has not gone through this parliament. Therefore, let the Colleges agree on what are serious topics that can go to this Parliament's agenda, so let's get ready and talk about them seriously. These topics are certainly as many as you want and it doesn't always have to be to wait for the Council of Ministers to discuss them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9108	Thank you. Namely, it is a business regulation in which every MP has the right to put up an initiative, and the House will decide whether or not he will accept it, as every MP has the right to prepare a agenda item with materials that can be a part of the agenda without voting on it, but it is a mandatory item of the agenda if it comes with materials. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 19th point of the agenda: Ad. 19. Report on the work of the Interim Joint Commission on the implementation of the European Court of Human Rights ruling in Strasbourg in the case of Sejdić and Finc v Bosnia and Herzegovina On the basis of the conclusions of the House of Representatives adopted at the 16th session, held on 22.12. and the House of Nations adopted at the 9th session, held on 28.12., on the continuation of work, the Interim Joint Commission of both homes submitted a report on the work of 13.3.2012 for the period 5.1.2012–12.3.2012. A year. The final part of the Report contains the following conclusions: '1. The interim commission has not achieved such a degree of consent in its work so far to propose an amendment to the BiH Constitution. 2. The interim commission believes it should continue to work on finding the solutions needed to implement the verdict, in line with the suggestions and decisions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes." I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, President of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9110	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen, the Commission ended this phase of work on the 12th, as prescribed by the conclusion of this House, and that is why it was then announced the end of this stage of the Commission's work, because the House's conclusion said it was until 12.3. And you've seen that the Commission hasn't finished the job it's in charge of the conclusions on its formation yet. This does not mean that the Commission has done nothing and has made no progressive progress in the work of the Commission. There are some progress on what the job is or what the task is, and 80 Commissions, which is, in fact, the essence of the implementation of the verdict, what procedures in the BiH Constitution should be made in order to implement the verdict. There is progress when it comes to the House of Peoples and there is still no solution when it comes to the BiH presidency. Given the commitment not to access this business in stages but to wait for a complete solution, there was no agreement to work in stages, to solve one part and to continue to solve the other part, but to solve the whole verdict, to actually execute the verdict in full. The Commission had no other way out than to refer the report to Parliament. And what I'm trying to say here is that this committee has been working seriously since its founding, held 14 sessions, and we've had meetings with party presidents. We ended this phase on the 12th, and the 13th report has already been completed and already today, the 15th, is here at the House, with the desire to get further instructions from the House, or the House to decide what to do with the implementation of this verdict and with this commission. I believe that the Commission should continue to work, that is the position and the Commission. I don't think BiH has a better answer at this point. If there's any better and smarter answer here in this room, I'd like to hear it and I'm willing to support it, but I don't think there's a better answer at this point than to extend the mandate to this commission and ask her to finish her job, so she's looking for a solution. BiH will have to find a solution to this situation, it will have to implement this verdict, because there is no further European path to BiH without implementation of the verdict, and without it BiH will have to do so, as this concerns removing the elements of discrimination from its constitutional system because of the citizens themselves. So at this point, I don't see a smarter solution than a solution to task the Commission to continue its work and end the work it is in charge of in its conclusion on its formation. I've also been thinking about the deadlines, and I don't think there should be any deadlines this time, this commission is doing it for free. So we are the Commission which has decided that we will not receive this compensation and no one is receiving compensation from the members of the Commission. So we're not costing extra. I don't think it's necessary to set deadlines for a new one, but to assign the Commission to continue to work until the job is done. And our deadlines are tied to our European path and this Parliament, so the BiH Parliament, and the Commission will also be pressed constantly when it comes to the European way for this to end. Every report of the Monitoring Committee will refer to this question. And as far as I'm concerned, the deadline is right now, if it is possible today during the session to reach a solution and adopt, propose amendments, it is immediately today; if not immediately, tomorrow, and so until this job is done. For this reason, if there is a willingness, of course, of the House of Representatives, I am obliged as chairman of the Commission to carry out, to extend the work of the Commission, I have prepared a proposal for these conclusions which I am actually proposing to adopt the Report with these conclusions, which are stated and that the Interim Commission is in charge of continuing to work towards a solution which will mean the realization of the tasks described in the conclusions on its formation. I can't see a better way out of this situation. If there's anything better, I say, I'm willing to support it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9111	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9112	Therefore, the Commission has decided but is not unanimous. I am a member of the Commission who was not in favour of this second conclusion 'to extend the work', because I think we have said what we had to say, we have nothing more to say in the Commission. The Commission has no need to meet anymore, unless the way we work is changed, or the Commission can be restarted, if we get from the Council of Ministers, or the chairman of the Council of Ministers which we have received here, and we haven't received the plan of work yet, and I believe that it will be in the plan of the Council of Ministers' Presidency this point, and then we can focus and continue to work. If that doesn't happen, I don't think there's any need for the Commission to do this anymore, because she's gone, she's exhausted all possibilities, and she's out of powers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9113	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9114	Oh, the replica to the gentleman. Mladen Ivanković Lijanović manifested himself on this problem a day or two ago in a way that, without what is now being sought, so the Council of Ministers' work plan has diagnosed where the blame for slowing BiH's path to Euro-Atlantic integration lies, that is Vjekoslav Bevanda and HDZ. I mean, either two days ago you were wrong or you're wrong now, you deal with yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9115	Thank you. Beriz Belkić, honourable MP, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9116	So I supported, as a member of this Interim Joint Commission, her further work, and that's what most members have done. However, after this report and discussion, I have one proposal to do so. So, that we don't disband the Commission, but to keep it in some kind of reserve, in reserve, that it's still on hold, on stand-by-guard until it smokes, until there's a white smoke where those six meet, and that we meet right away, we do the amendments technically, and we sign and move on, this is what Pero was talking about in time about what our function is. We don't take money, that's true, but we're wasting time and material, papers, huge reports, statements, etc. So, let us in reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9117	Then it would be more of a surveillance and recon board, wouldn't it? Dear Ambassador Milica Marković. Here's 82.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9118	Well, I just want to say a few things, first of all, about the Commission's report. I am convinced that today all MPs and clubs would like to be informed that the Commission has completed its work and that we will have amendments to the Constitution to implement that verdict. But it's not like that and it shouldn't be pessimistic. So, I am in favour of the Commission continuing its work and ending its work as soon as possible and as soon as possible. Certainly, the assistance of the Commission is what six leaders agree. And I also appeal to that part, so all the leaders who have met so far to continue, because it will be a great help to the Commission and so it will probably be able to do its job sooner. What made me come forward more, so according to this report, my colleague Džaferović said everything and there is nothing to add or subtract, it is what he is. But for which I have answered, it means to say a few words that it is, in a certain sense, a particular report, or information that I think will be useful to this Parliament, and especially to the Commission. On Tuesday, therefore, the day before yesterday was a meeting of the Monitoring Committee of the Council of Europe in Paris where my colleague Saša Magazinović and I attended on behalf of our delegation. And on that occasion, which was somewhat unusual, I think to us an unusual and pleasant surprise, that both the president of the Committee and the rapporteur, Mrs Wolceth, had expressed themselves positively and commendably on what was done in BiH from January to March of the month. And of course, because for them the priority of all the priorities of this European Court ruling is, they have accepted that Parliament, i.e. the Commission, is working very intensively with a serious intention to bring this job to an end and to reform our Constitution in this context. What's more important as information is that I don't think it's going to be so much more pressure that we have to do it today. So, they accept as counterpart Džaferović said and what my colleague Saša Magazinović and I have said, so that one step is taken in the sense that a certain progress has been made in finding a solution for the House of Peoples, and there is still a solution for selecting members of the Bureau and that a whole solution will be made afterwards. So what was announced in January following the Council of Europe Resolution that BiH will again be in an urgent process on the agenda in April, at the April session, so now it has given up and possibly in June, so one of the sullen information from reporters will be discussed at the June session. So I don't think it's that urgent right now that it has to be done today, tomorrow. So it's important to do quality in some future period. And I therefore believe that today, if we agree to extend the mandate to the Commission, which we probably want, I agree with that it should not be limited by deadlines, but some reasonable deadline, so if we know it is in June, that BiH will be reconsidered in the Council of Europe, then it should be some, I should say, indicative term until when this job should be brought to an end. In any case, I support the Commission's continued work in order to successfully end this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9119	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Mladen Bosić. Here you go. 83
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9120	Well, I've been hearing for a long time that all things in this country, concerning politics, are to be resolved by some six political party presidents. And here you must consider the role of Parliament. If six people, as an out-of-institutional form that has no law, will solve anything that should be resolved by Parliament, Parliament should be disbanded. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It doesn't matter if it's a parliamentary majority. Here, if you were, well... if your president were sitting there, then the same situation would probably not be talking. So, I think we should have a discussion here. I don't understand why these six people need and what these six people can say much about the political attitudes that our representatives have on that committee. All our political views were held in the Commission by Mr Bojić and Mrs Pandurević, who changed them as a member of the Commission. And these are our current attitudes. And that's where we have to discuss it. What's the party's role in all this? So thank Bog that I, as party president, agree first with Mr. Bojić, and the party's authorities, which is our political position. And he has an absolutely credible right to express our position and negotiate in that domain. Therefore, do not call on six leaders. If so, then neither should the Commission. Then we'll call the Commission when, I don't know, six party presidents find a solution. But I must warn you that this is a humiliating position for Parliament and MPs in Parliament and an excuse for a lack of will to address open political issues and justification for lack of responsibility and courage to discuss these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9122	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9123	I'm really sorry to hear that, but the practice so far has shown it. So until people sat down and said we'd give in here, we'd accept this here, we couldn't solve it here, not even when it comes to the State Aid Act, not when it comes to the List Act and a number of other things. But here, Mr. Bosić is right, of course, Parliament's responsibility etc. On the Commission, it is true that people held party views. And I was saying, all the members of the Joint Commission were taking positions and it was very difficult to get close. We have recently, in the last few days, received the views of the RS, so the Assembly, the National Assembly of the RS, which binds MPs, or members of the Joint Commission, the Interim Joint Commission of the Republic of Slovenia to two things and a set-up and a framework. That's it. So, really, despite my best wishes, I mean, here's the deal, I'm not acting like an opposition because the general thing is, we weren't able to just have the space to start negotiating. It has been tried, a solution has been given, etc., but we have not reached a statement. Simply, no one was ready to step down from their own to consult with political party leaders. That's right, for nothing, that's the practice. It's been before, but it is now. 84
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9124	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Milica Marković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9125	My replica refers to Mr. Mladen Bosić's exposure. So really here, man, when he thinks in this country that there's just something to go on normal and positive, then you get into a situation where you're wondering if this is really a wonder country, what's going on here. So now the question is, what are the six leaders to discuss, why Parliament? Well, I'm really thinking at some point that now that we've decided to say, here, we don't need a leader, let Parliament meet, let the Commission meet and do the job. Then someone will say they don't need any more political parties. So we'll be wondering who'll be sitting in this parliament if political party representatives don't sit. So we're sitting here in front of some political parties, you're sitting on behalf of the party and on your personal behalf, and now you're asking what six leaders are. So when it is possible for the Commission to do something on its own without an opinion and without the agreement of party leaders so that it is not done by the Commission to prepare the Council of Ministers' election, when she was in charge of the job. She couldn't do anything until the party leaders met at the end of December and did the job. And when they agreed, then everything started. And I don't know what you're asking that question right now, as if it's something strange that party leaders have met to agree on. Well, it's normal to ask for help from them and every one of them. If this were a country like some others, such as, I don't know, Švajcarska, Germany, some others, then they could be completely impartial commissions, impartial bodies, professionals, experts to meet and make some proposals, and Parliament, the Council of Ministers could vote it out, accept and move on. But it can't, everything here has to spin, or go and end up in political parties. Well, after all, all of us sitting here are from political parties. And what's strange about the leaders meeting now? I mean, we're really wasting our time on some things.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9126	Thank you. For a long time, the second deputy, the esteemed Denis Bećirović, has been asking for a word, so here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9127	I thought my colleague Živković would hide this fact that I've been looking for a word for a long time, but good. I think we should go back to this initial discussion of the chairman-in-Office of the Commission. The man asked a question nobody here in the O.R. answered. And that question is what do you suggest if you don't think this commission should be extended. Of course, the only solution we can make is to extend the work of this committee within the appropriate time limit we agree on. And it should be said that, compared to the situation six months ago, we now have some new positive processes and finally some positive shifts have been made. We also showed in this home that no matter what preparation they had preceded so that we could resolve certain difficult questions. We passed the State Aid Act in both homes, the Census Act, the Council of Ministers is working in a new meeting, etc. 85 But I think that, come on, I'm not going to say it's not correct, but it's simply not true that we translate this whole story into the field as if we're waiting for the white smoke of six political leaders, and then we call the Commission. That doesn't stand. It wasn't that long ago, it was less than six years ago when there was a white smoke outside this hall, but when it came to this hall, a constitutional package that had a much wider scope than that of Sejdić and Finc was brought down. So we should keep all this in mind and try one rational way to finish this part of the work that we started. We all know that, if we want to take a fair look at it, that this commission has gone a step further than it was at first. Some questions are and there is a majority consensus about something. There are still a few questions left that have not been resolved. But why not believe that we can agree on these things in the coming weeks and solve another important issue.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9128	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9129	To his noun, the Mladen Replica, which is tied to the decision of six leaders. I was a presidential candidate, six leaders didn't support me, I didn't pass. The presidential candidate has been elected, I think he's gathered in this matter and he should have the answer to this question for us. I am asking for a solution from the chairman of the Council of Ministers who has therefore received full support to give us an answer to this question. If he has no answer to this question, I think it would be correct to resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9130	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9131	Thank you. Let me also say two or three sentences concerning this report. I absolutely support this report even though I wasn't present at the last session of this committee. I also support the continuation of the Commission's work, with the view that it would be good to set some deadline within which the Commission should finish its work. And I don't think it's right for us to delay the final decision on this issue indefinitely. The commitment that prevailed in the package to address this issue, so both the People's House and the BiH Presidency, I don't think it was good, that what was easier to solve for a solution and that we reached a consensus, and that which is harder, where we are going to come to a solution, should have been left for a second time. However, we decided to do as we decided. We need to get out of this now. So I think we should set a certain deadline. That would also be a deadline for those who meet and are expected to smoke. Because despite fellow Bosić's modesty, however, the leaders of six 86 political parties in BiH have the main word at the moment, and consequently the parliamentary majority behind which or ahead they stand. And I think they should take responsibility for resolving this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9132	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9133	Thank you. The Alliance for a Better Future proposes to adopt this report... for this period until 12.3.2012 and that the Commission, the Interim Commission, continue to work and give the deadline again until 30.5.2012. We'll deliver that in writing now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9134	Thank you. Dear colleague Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9135	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, as a member of the Sejdic-Finci Commission, I think the Commission has justified its existence. I really want to say that if nothing of all the political parties that are taking part in this committee, and all the political parties are present in the work of this committee, had the opportunity to say the opinion of their parties, or their personal opinions as MPs, or... in that commission, so that, if nothing else, we heard each other well. On the other hand, I think that the Commission – why did it still justify its existence? – justified its existence because it is a good signal for our European integration. It is clear that people in European structures, i.e. in Brussels, saw that the Commission was working very tightly. Mr. Chairman Džaferović has often scheduled these committee sessions, not because he thought we should make an epochal decision there, and we should epochally decide, but because it is indeed a good message for all people who follow this process of European integration in BiH. I would like to say that it is really necessary for the Commission to continue its work and that we continue to negotiate. I don't think it's necessary to limit, as my colleague Purić, the deadline of this commission. I think it'll come in time. And that one good political message to continue to be this committee in full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9136	Thank you. The first deputy chairman, the Honorable Božo Ljubić. Here you go. 87
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9137	My colleagues and fellow MPs, I would say that this approach is new, which we have practiced by forming a parliamentary commission, gave positive results, that in any case it is a step forward in relation to what we have witnessed in the last 15 years. Namely, this is the first time that the talks on reform, change, upgrade, however you like, the Constitution have institutional form. So far, we have had two attempts at extra-institutional where political parties participated and one attempt, or not to try, but unfortunately managed the project, thus imposing changes by the High Representative in 2001. The second new quality of the commission's work and a new approach at all is that civil sector participated in BiH, representatives of national minorities and that the public was involved in this. Here someone mentioned one attempt from, I think, April 2006, when it reportedly appeared at a meeting of political party leaders of the famous white smoke, but it all fell in Parliament. So why? Well, because it was done non-transparently and without participation in BiH institutions. And when it came to the institution then it fell here because they were not then respected, so constructive amendments by MPs who voted here in Parliament. And I assure you that was to get that project through. So, another thing about meeting political party leaders. I don't think your meetings hurt. And here, I happen to be in a double role here, and I'm a member of the Commission and I've been to these meetings, and in no way is the role of these working-consultative meetings to substitute Parliament's powers, nor should I, nor can I. And therefore, it is likely that the leaders of political parties will, bilaterally, quadrilaterally, in six, continue the talks, which can help safely, but essentially work needs to be done in this parliament and in another home. And I therefore support this commission to continue its work. I was initially on the stand to limit his work to three months for now, but I am getting closer to the position that we adopt the conclusion that it continues to work on adopting, or making amendments. And I'll just say my impression from a meeting in Banja Luka. I have personally participated in many meetings in the last few years and, it seems to me, it is my impression that it is one of the best meetings, because right then we have agreed here as representatives of the parliamentary majority's parties that we will go to the implementation of this verdict, that we will implement it as fully as required by the Council of Europe and that we will implement it in a fundamental way, taking care of the needs of BiH, not the needs, I don't know, the Council of Europe or Brussels. Therefore, I hope that this approach from that meeting will be integrated into the working method and the Committee to continue this process and that, I would say, in a relatively short time, there will be an amendment that will have the capacity to be adopted in both homes of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9138	Thank you. Replica, a respected colleague, Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go. 88
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9139	Ljubić Kolega, if this is a step forward, what is a step back? So, suggest your candidate as president in front of the party and now he has no answer, it's irresponsible. I think that's where the responsibility lies, and that's where we need to look for responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9140	Thank you. Dear colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9141	Well, let me join you, considering I'm a member of that committee and say a few things. I think it is well established that the Commission has made certain moves and that there is potential in the Commission. So there's, like, an intellectual capacity that has ideas. But especially to highlight two things, which is a democratic way of leading this committee, a democratic way. One way the framework was freed was created miles to carry out free views, which was not back in a few years. And that's big progress, that's big progress. The ideas that are given there sometimes don't like me or anyone else, but we're taking them out freely, which will say that BiH is becoming a more democratic country. As far as this question is concerned, the role of leader is potential. Absolutely she's big, significant, but I'm afraid of one thing that doesn't go into a tendency, that we don't get a high representative in a few leaders. And it's a democratic act, right? Therefore, leaders should act more within their party, within their representatives within the Commission and less cover the Commission's work. Therefore, to assume the responsibilities of the Commission. Because someone's been doing a good job of finding out, so the question is, then our dignity, so our dignity. What are we going to do there if we expect some solutions that will come from the leaders? So, I'm afraid of that tension. Otherwise, it's always good for you if the leaders agree and have solutions, they'll help us work things out faster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9142	I thank the esteemed representative, Petar Kunić. The following came to the debate by a respected representative and the chairman of this house, Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9143	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members, I will say what I said and on the committee myself when I was present. Namely, I support the work of this committee, and I believe that this work should continue. This is interpreted both in Europe and Brussels as credible progress. Why would we (?) Effort, effort. 89 ...a credible effort that will lead to progress, why would the part that and Europe positively think about us and every citizen here have a positive view of it, why would they make it impossible for me? So, the Commission should work, but in the work of the Commission, people who are from the opposition, not only the opposition, are working there, and those who are directly concerned with the implementation of this verdict, because it is a matter of changing the BiH Constitution, and therefore it is not just the position that is responsible. That's why everyone's responsible. The opposition should be adequately involved in this work and should propose solutions that will be close to ideal. In some ways, it should also help leaders who obviously have a problem finding a solution that is close to ideal, and the Commission has a chance to discuss perhaps cases that have not been discussed so far. And none of the leaders, if I did, would have liked to hear, restricted the work of the Commission to anything. He supported the Commission's work, tried to help it, and I see that help. On the other hand, I would like to comment on the proposal that came from Mr Džaferović regarding the conclusions. I am not agreed to limit the work of the Commission by date, but I am aware that the Commission occasionally informs this Parliament of its work. And I think this conclusion should be complemented by a part that would talk about the Commission notifying this Parliament every third month or every three months about its work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9145	I thank the esteemed representative, Milorad Živković. The following came to light for the debate, distinguished representative Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9146	Thank you. Although more or less everything was said, I had a need to respond to this story about leaders, which I think is going in the wrong direction and in which I see nothing controversial. Well, the leaders run this parliament. And as long as the leaders manage this parliament, in democratic capacity and in accordance with democratic rules, what is the issue? I call on the leaders to resolve this issue. The success of this country and failure is both the success and the failure of the leader. And what's so controversial about that? So why are they called leaders? Well, he can't run from responsibility if he wants to be a leader, so he can't. You can't have a semi-lider as a leader. The April package failed that the leaders were not leaders, not that they were negotiated outside the institutions. Someone who's been there, the leader wasn't here. And it's not a leader. Not a weak Uroš can be a leader. And that's what this is about. So there are people, when Obama leads America they say he's a leader, and the man leads, no one says he decides for himself. When America or Sarkozy agreed on important issues in four eyes, two leaders agreed, and everyone approves. But when they make a problem, of course. But here you have, you know the situation, the leaders would switch to someone else and get a little smuggling, so a little bit, that's impossible. We accept, support, great responsibility is on the leaders, they have our support, but I don't see what the problem is. I already see it as an integral part. It's important that we come to an agreement. We said that once here: does it matter what color cats are? We need a mouse. So I, not well, agreed by the leaders or agreed by the MPs, so does it matter who made the deal? And if we fail, then it doesn't matter who didn't do it anymore. But I think... it's definitely a problem in some who take pictures and represent leaders, and they're not leaders. And that's the problem. If the leaders had arranged things, but there, a little bit in front of the cameras would have been the leaders, somewhere 90 half-liders, somewhere not me, they are. Oh, he can't. It's called the leader, the president, the leader, call it whatever you want, the chosen one, he's got the lead, he's got the support, he's got the deal. If he's in no condition, and he doesn't know, and he can't, he has to take responsibility. But I totally understand them as much as they are. Of course, it's not simple, these people have obligations to political programs, to parties, to what they lead, but we're... we're minors here to interfere with what the leaders have agreed. And I dream of that moment to say, here, that's the deal. I see it as one, like a nail and meat, and I don't see the difference and I just call the leaders to courage and to solve that question. I don't have any problem if I wasn't involved, if that's a good solution for this country and a way out of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9147	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9148	I fully understand Mr. Kalabić and his discussion, because we obviously belong to different parties, both psychologically and organisationally. I can understand Mr. Kalbić looking at his leader as someone who allowed him to sit here, not himself as someone who fought for votes. I respect that party-led policy and consult with my MPs, what kind of policy it will be. And those who sit only thanks to their leaders here, waiting for what the leader will tell him, how to vote, I think they have a problem with their political engagement. This is where people are directly chosen. In this House, people are directly elected. Come on, give at least half your salary to your leader. We should pay our full salary to our leader. A leader can't do your job. And there's obviously some democracy deficit here. There's probably a non-democratic line of people waiting for someone else to decide for them. All of what I said at the meetings of these six men were said by these representatives on that committee. That commission did a great job. First of all, she put on a hundred different opinions and different options and showed, through it, that there was room to make a deal. That deal will probably be made the moment the trade ends, if it's not over, and when someone estimates it's time for that. The Commission needs to remain, the dignity of this Parliament should be maintained. So, the story is that this parliament is waiting and the Commission is waiting for the leaders to agree on the next meeting, which is probably a month, is not a good story and is not a democratic story. So, Mr. Kalabić, I'm surprised by your discussion and I take that as a kind of personal attack, but I understand your views as well. We obviously come from different psychological and political systems.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9149	Thank you. Eh, we'll see about that. Replica, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go. 91
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9150	Now, did you find out who you're going to attribute Communism to, good for you. I mean, I'm the last man in this House to be attributed to communism. But I don't understand you, Mr. Bosić, why you didn't leave Parliament and why you didn't disband the party's leadership, if your MPs were elected, the day the elections were over. What kind of leader are you, being president, calling a club, fishing MPs every day, walking around the Republic giving them a lecture on how and why and how they have to? And you know it's okay, and you're right about that. And I support that. I can't, so as you thought, imagine political life, this is a simple formula for you, you're elected, free MPs, disbanding party leadership during your term. Make that formula and I automatically accept your discussion. It's not true, Mr. Bosić, if you promise one thing to the embassy, if you promise another among those bumblebees, third-party journalists, fourth, well, Bog, it's hard for me to turn out to be a leader here. So you have our support. You misunderstood me. I think it's normal for someone with democratic rules, democratic capacity, to manage a party, a club, and... You've run the SDS, run her platform, and you're in charge of implementing her, you've got instruments, you've got a club of MPs, and it's perfectly legal and legitimate. Well, believe me, I'd run away at some point. Well, I'd go out at some point, but I can't get out, and I'm not a leader, I can go out now, as far as I'm concerned, let the leaders sweat a little bit. And as far as I'm concerned, I have no problem with my leader. And I'm inviting him to be a little better and a little bit, not transfer responsibility, but end this. Likewise, I, as long as someone manages a political party that I respect as a rule in this House and in the political party there are rules and they should exist. And it is our problem of anarchy in the political parties, which perhaps someday we will discuss and which is causing great problems in this House as well. But that's another topic. I have not objected to you for one moment, but I have said that unlike others, I respect the institution of the leader, because I consider it a help. So don't make sure the leaders don't run political parties, don't run clubs and don't say they vote. But I didn't say dictator. And that's what you wanted to say, that's something else. So you have support and you don't have to run away from the problem. We're going to help, we're going to talk, so you're going to convince me that the bodies of the SDS you run are not talking about this solution or about credibility and where you're trying to come up with a solution. But you won't say no there, don't talk about it, that's what they're talking about in Parliament. Well, I mean, don't, not one sentence of mine has been pointed, indeed, nor have I mentioned you, but I just said about the problem of the president of the political parties who made a certain deal and took responsibility for certain events in this country. Take responsibility, and I can't, and together with them, we don't have to run until we find the other seven leaders or the other six who will form another majority and take that responsibility. For now she's with us together and the leader and no matter what you say, we can't get away from it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9151	Replica, Reverend Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9152	I don't know who I should be replicating, Mr. Kalabić or my party chief, and it seems to me both a little bit. There's a party where MPs are allowed to replicate to their boss, right? Then we'll do it for a change. It is true, Mr. Kalabić, that we here as SDS MPs represent SDS positions. We're all members of the SDS General Committee. The SDS's main board in a democratic way 92 determines certain political views and I hope we all have so much intelligence that we can present these views here, that we don't have to, that it's not an exclusive interpreter of these views, our party boss. I would resent my party boss for being here, I think, having held up a little extra-time discussion, because here I can conclude that there are people in many parties who take on certain responsibilities, certain obligations, certain responsibilities, but that they can't do anything without even getting out of the hallway and making phone calls to the party chief and asking him to even give them directions. There, that's the difference maybe between some parties. And I, on the other hand, can really understand some people. Maybe some of the parties would need an internal revolution that we in the SDS have been through in the past few years.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9153	Replica, the esteemed representative Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9154	Whether revolutions were spontaneous or international, we're not going to get into that. I would like to say that our colleague from the House of the Peoples, Krstan Simić: if anyone could have sent a more professional staff and staff who did not adhere to party discipline, it was SNSD. So in the story of mixed marriages, he entered into the execution of a verdict in the House of Peoples and did not suffer any sanctions. So, let's get rid of the shackles, the leaders aren't here to order, but they're here to help, as are those who come from all the parties on that committee who are looking for an ideal solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9155	Thank you. The next call was received by distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9156	Chairman, this isn't a replica to anyone, this is the only way I can get a word in the end. I tried to be the last in this debate. I don't know if I'm gonna make it, is it? I think that these conclusions that came from colleagues from the SBB and this proposal for a conclusion proposed by Mr. Živković are actually compatible with these conclusions and I think that these conclusions should be complemented by another third conclusion. I'm not really running away from the Commission to file a report, I think it should be done every month. I'm afraid it's not a short time to work every month, it's three months long, I think 60 days would be some optimal deadline. So, that the Commission is obliged, regardless of what it has done, not to do, every 60 days to make it the third conclusion here, to add, not to write, to report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes on its work. And I think that's how we would satisfy all of this and that we could support one such joint conclusion. As for the party presidents themselves, and their roles, as I tell you, there's truth somewhere in the middle. I wish BiH institutions could function like any other institution in the world, but there are also no institutions in the world that have no mutual talks and within 93 political parties, factions, as it is called modern in Western democracies. However, it is not as highlighted as it is with us here, but we are in some specific situation. It's been a stalemate for a long time. We've cut off some processes, we're trying to establish some positive political climate. And in that context, I'm looking at these meetings, and these meetings can only help this commission. They will not make amendments, they will not propose amendments and they will not adopt them. We will write the amendments in the Commission, which is why we have formed it, and we will discuss it in Parliament, conduct a public debate, because only then is parliamentary work coming, and vote on these amendments. In that context, let's not make a big name out of it. I wish there were less, and there's more success here in these institutions. But if you're asking me if it's not there and we're always failing here, then I'm not up for it either. Then I prefer this variant to make progress. And thirdly, this is constitutional reform. This is the most difficult reform in every country and in this constitutional reform that comes at the request of the European Court of Human Rights ruling some of the issues that we have here in BiH and we have to resolve. And, guys, this isn't a simple job. Here, so this job can end with a consensus, so all of us, and it can end to the pleasure of all of us. That's why it takes patience here, and it needs perseverance. And, if anything this commission has shown so far, I think it's shown she has patience and she's persistent. And I believe that we will come to a solution, because the solution to this issue is the only thing that is in the interest of all of us in BiH. Failure to resolve this issue will damage everyone in BiH. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9157	I thank and conclude the debate. Moving to the 20th point of the agenda: Ad. 20. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the Citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011 The Citizens' Appeals Committee delivered 29. 2. 2012 Report to the House on adoption, in accordance with Article 15 (1) point (f) and Article 19(1) point (d) of the Act on Independent Supervisory Authorities of the BiH Police Structure, and Article 4 (1) point (f) and Rule 5(f) of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the Citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The BiH Joint Commission for Defence and Security submitted its Opinion on the Report on 8.3.2012. I'm opening a debate on the report. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Next point 21. 94 Ad. 21. A report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2011 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of Bosnia and Herzegovina's police structure for 2012
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9163	Yes, there is.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9164	Who's got it?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9165	Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9166	Dear Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9167	Well, look, there are a few concerns about the application of the Law, or Article 17. The Anti-Corruption Agency Act, for reasons that some things are incompletely defined or unclear. What exactly is this about? Following the initiative by Mr Purić, who submitted the initiative to discuss this topic and the sequence and my representative question this morning, namely, we now have the situation that in Article 17 of this law it is prescribed that the Agency's selection and monitoring commission consists of nine members, three of them from the House of Representatives, three from the House of Peoples, two from the academic community and one from the NGO sector. We now have the current situation contrary to this member of the Law, by having four MPs from the House of Peoples, because the House of Peoples seems to have named me Borjanu Krišto as a member of this commission, Sulejman Tihić as an old-new member and we have a situation that the Commission is contrary to Article 17 of this Law. I ask the question of what is the mandate, how long does the mandate of this committee take, does any call need to re-name the members of this committee from the House of Representatives, or the House of Peoples? In fact, are we in a situation today to choose new members or are we simply changing those who want to change? So I'd like, uh, here's a sequence of this representative question I had this morning, to answer me. I don't know who might answer, but I'm guessing someone from the College of this House of Representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9168	Thank you. The debate is being held by Honorable Representative Milorad Živković, chairman of the House.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9169	Thank you. 96 Since I thought there would be no misunderstanding about this agenda point, I had no need to answer it, but here I am trying to explain the question referred to by a respected colleague, Šemsudin Mehmedović. So three are from the House of People, Mr. Staša Košarac, Mrs. Krišto and Mr. Sulejman Tihić, not two. So at their last session, there was a change, where Mrs. Majkić, who was from the House of People, was moved even though she was the chairman of this committee, and Mr. Staša Košarac was placed, and instead of Mr. Ilija Filipović, who was not in our parliament at all, but in the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Čović was placed. For that reason, Borjana Krišto, excuse me. So for this reason we have three from the House of Peoples, now there will be also three from the House of Representatives, and the other doubts you had: The Anti-Corruption Agency has referred as an invitation for authentic interpretation, which is in accordance with our rules of law to the Constitutional Commission, and it again asks for a report from the competent authorities, so you will also get this authentic interpretation. The way it is, he'll be used to divide further into this body. Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9170	Here, let me help you out a little bit. Mr Mehmedović, I understand you, so whether the mandate of those in the last meeting, the new power of new people and I see you have a great interest in this agency and in the appointments etc. Here, I will resign immediately to membership, so as the only man in the opposition, I see that you are interested, please, no problem at all. So, the thing is very clear. You show interest in managing the Agency from your appointment. Here you go. I resign immediately, please choose a man.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9171	Replica, dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9172	I don't know why my colleague Belkić took this personally, but I had doubts about the application of the legal provisions. I asked for clarification and here's an explanation I got. I don't understand why Mr. Belkić realized that I was interested. I was an exhibit in the proposal of the director and two deputy directors, and I see no reason why I have the ambition to manage the commission, or the Anti-Corruption Agency. I don't want Mr. Belkić to really understand anything personal about this. But if he resigned, it would be good if he wrote it in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9173	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go. 97
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9174	What I'm saying, I do. Of course I'll do it in writing. But you, Mr. Mehmedović, have exercised political influence and predominance over the Agency by asking for leadership to be chosen beyond the ranking list. So, you were the perpetrator. Maybe you're not, here's what you said yourself... etc. So, I'll resign.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9175	Dear second deputy chairman Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9176	Given all previous discussions within this item of the agenda, I believe that the only rational solution at this point is to postpone the statement of this, to get some additional information, to agree that we will discuss this issue, not on the narrow but on the enlarged College, and that at the next session, we will not be over the knee, we will plead. In the meantime, whether someone resigns or not, we will look at all of this, including these things that counterpart Živković was talking about. Here, that's my suggestion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9177	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9178	I didn't mean to harass my colleagues and colleagues, but I really do have to answer, because this is a heavy accusation that I've exerted political influence in selecting candidates for director and two deputies. In fact, the personal staff solution may not have liked the Commission's composition at the time, but this parliament played a role in choosing. And he really chose. Whether it is by the wishes or expectations of some members of the Commission, that is another question. So I took part in what I suggested and chose, and I am not ashamed of it. If that is political influence, then of course this parliament should exercise political influence in such a way as to choose.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9179	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9180	Well, let me help you out, since the chairman said something that wasn't right until the end. So this concludes the appointment of all nine members to the Agency's Monitoring Commission. So they're all appointed. There were insufficient numbers of members from the House of Peoples. They made that correction. Today, Živković stepped down practically and left me as next, and two members from the academic community and one from the NGO sector were elected. So, the rest of the stuff remains, this is Purić very good topic for the debate, because this is an institution that cannot work. He doesn't have a budget. No, 98 here we are still playing around the Commission following her work. No rules on work, no conditions to move on. So it's very urgent for this institution to start working. We did, we passed all the laws to get visa liberalisation, and we immediately forgot all that. So we haven't started anything yet, and for a year and how many institutions there are. It's a very bad signal that we send to the international community and to all those who follow our work.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9181	No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We can start voting at 6:15. Is he okay? At 6:15 p.m. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats. We're going to vote. First point: The adoption of the minutes of 22rd and 23rd session with observations, i.e. the suggestion of the honourable MP Božo Ljubić Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 38 (24 from the Federation, from RS 14, without the vote 'against' and 'abstained'). I agree that we adopted the minutes of the 22nd and 23rd sessions, with the suggestion of the honourable MP, Božo Ljubić. Third point: A request from the Alliance for a Better Future of BiH to consider the Proposal for a Law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, We vote on an emergency procedure request. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! Nine, versus 20, abstention 11. Insufficient support for this request. We move to a vote on a request for a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. Please prepare for the vote. Vote, now! For nine, 'against 20,'restricted' 11. 99 This request did not receive the required majority for a shortened procedure. So this law goes into regular procedure. Point 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! For 36, there weren't four abstentions. I realize we've adopted this bill. Point 5. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions (second reading) We vote on the Proposal for a Law in second reading. Please prepare for the vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9187	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9188	You will be subsequently informed of this vote. Moving to point 9. Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, Glasmo on the Commission's opinion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, that's it, we voted on it and we said we'd discuss it at the next session. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! We vote on the Commission's opinion which is negative. Is there any need to repeat? Is there a need to repeat it? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9191	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9192	You'll be notified later. We're going to point 10. Proposal for a law to suspend the validity of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, Glasmo on the Commission's Opinion, which is also negative. 102 Stand by, please. You can vote now! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's not working again. "For" 25, "against" 14, "restricted" one. Insufficient support from the RS. We're not going to the second round?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9194	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9195	Here, so we're going to say that our professional service is monitoring the lift of the charts and then putting it on later, because I don't know how else to regulate it. 26 votes "yes," here's, say, 14 "against" and one "abstained." Shall we go to the second round?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9196	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9197	Later. Point 11. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the financing of institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (the law in first reading) was voted in the second round on the Proposal for a Law in the first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "In" 20, "against" six, "restricted" 14. ... The Federation seven, neither in the Federation nor in the RS two-thirds of the votes 'against', means we passed this law in the first reading. Moving to point 12. 103 The College's report on an effort to reach agreement on the draft law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law (the emergency procedure law) was voted in the second round on the bill. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 23, "against" 14, "abstained" four; "against" from the RS two-thirds. This bill didn't get support. Moving to point 13. A statement on MP Nermin Purić's initiative from the 14th session of the House of Representatives vote on the adoption of this initiative. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 41, no votes "against" and "abstained." I realize we adopted this initiative. Point 14. A statement on MP Nermin Purić's initiative from the 16th session of the House of Representatives vote on the adoption of this initiative. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 41, no votes "against" and "abstained." I understand that we have adopted this initiative unanimously. Point 15. Declaration on Parliament's initiative, Aleksandra Pandurević, from the 19th session of the House of Representatives, votes on the adoption of this initiative. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! For 30, there were no votes 'against', 'abstained' 11. Enough entity majority. I realize we've adopted this initiative, too. 104 Point 16. Declaration on the initiative of MPs Božo Ljubić from the 19th session of the House of Representatives We vote on the adoption of an initiative with the conclusions of the Commission's opinion on traffic and communication.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9198	Shall we separate that? Let's go, especially this initiative, and then one conclusion at a time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9199	Niko one suggested it when it was a discussion, it was written to me in a reminder, and you can suggest we do it differently.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9200	So here's what I'm proposing: first initiative, then one conclusion at a time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9201	We have always adopted reports with the opinions of the commission and its conclusions in line with the work we have done so far. Accordingly, this is also proposed, so that we should not change the way we work and that we should vote together. Please vote at once for the opinion of the Commission on Transport and Communication and Conclusions. You can vote now! "For" 14, "against" 23, "against" 24 is so, "restricted" one. I find this initiative not accepted. Give a list of colleagues to Božo's Ljubić. Point 17. Report on the work of the House of Representatives Commission for 2011 from a) to f) We vote on the adoption of the report on the work of the House of Representatives committees. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! _________(?) Can we do it again? Well, this is about commissions, so we're voting on point 17. 105 wants to do it again? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9205	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9206	No need, give up. Thank you. Moving to point 20. Report on the work of the Committee on Appeals of the Citizens of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for 2011 The year we voted on the adoption of the report. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! For 31, there were no abstentions, nine. Enough entity majority. I understand we've adopted the report. We vote on point 21. A report on the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of the BiH police structure for 2011 and the Plan for the work of the Independent Committee as an independent body of the BiH police structure for 2012. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 33, there were no abstentions seven. I understand we've adopted the report. 22. Proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the selection of members of the permanent committees of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. We're voting on the adoption of this decision. Three decisions or one decision? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 107 "For" 40, "against" or "abstained" there wasn't. I find that we unanimously adopted the decision. Point 23. Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision on the selection of members of the joint committees of the two BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Houses, votes on the adoption of the Decision. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 40, "against" and "abstained" wasn't. I realize we've adopted the decision. Moving to point 24. Proposal for a decision on amendments to the Decision appointing a member of the Commission to elect and monitor the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency I was given here in a reminder of the conclusion of MP Denis Bećirović. Are you giving up your conclusion or should we put it to a vote?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9208	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-15-0.u9209	Thank you. So we're voting on the proposed decision. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 39, "against" one, "abstained" wasn't. I realize we've adopted the decision. Dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your cooperation and patience. Next session is 29. 3. Thank you. The seat is finished at 18.40 hours.
