ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8473	I am opening the 21st session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence was justified by Azra Hadžiahmetović, Petar Kunić, Emir Kabil and Salko Sokolović. According to service information, 33 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. I also want to apologize to the MPs for delivering the material at the last minute, but I think there has been enough debate on these materials and that we can adequately discuss and decide today. You've got the agenda. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8474	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and fellow representatives, guests, I propose that today's agenda be added to one item of the agenda that could be called: Information on the activities of the publication of the BiH Budget for 2011. A brief explanation: You remember that we came together in a similar manner as today on 30.12. last year, to adopt the 2011 Budget of the BiH Institutions and to create assumptions that the Council of Ministers can make a decision on temporary financing. I have different media information about how long these activities have gone. I think it would also be correct because of the position of our representatives and because of the interests of the entire public and because of the state in which we are currently located to get quality information today on whether or not this BiH institution is being announced today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8475	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8476	I was probably about the same way I was thinking, but my formulation was something different. So, I was going to suggest that today we discuss the agenda point: whether BiH has or does not have a 2011 budget. It's not about publishing and not publishing, it's about the fundamental question -- are all these procedures behind us, the great procedures, the conclusions, the correspondence, are they even in line with the Constitution of BiH, the Rules of Procedure and everything else, which we talked about on many occasions? And that leads us to a serious question whether we have a budget at all or not. So that's the real question, and all this other stuff is technique. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8477	Thank you. Let me say on behalf of the College that the Expansive College was familiar with the holding of today's session, and that's what was agreed on at the Extended College, with these two agenda points. The joint college that held the session yesterday at 15.00 was also familiar, where the party presidents were also some of the MPs who propose changes and complement the agenda, i.e. that today's session will be with these two agenda points. I cannot dispute as chairman of any MP to propose amendments and amendments to the agenda, but I say what was agreed on both at the Enlarged College and at the Joint College. If one of the MPs insists that his proposal for a new agenda item be put to the vote, please either repeat it or if it is necessary to deliver it in writing, in order to put it to the vote. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8478	I will therefore very simply formulate: whether BiH has a 2012 budget or not and ask the finance minister, or a responsible person from the finance ministry, to simply answer that question.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8479	Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8480	I can give in writing, but I can't read. So, the proposal for my agenda item is: Information on the activities on the publication of the 2011 Budget of BiH institutions, and I suggest that this be the first item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8481	Thank you. We're putting on, do we need to take a break? Before this break, the second vice-president Denis Bećirović asked for the word. Here you go. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8482	Then I'll still request a 15-minute break. I must remind here that yesterday we also had a College of the House and an extended college on which he was a representative of the HDZ, president of the Club, then a Joint College where he was president, or an authorised person from the president of the HDZ. Now, in front of the HDZ Club, an MP stands up and asks for an extension of the agenda. So here's why we're looking for a 15-minute break to see how we're going to continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8483	My colleagues and colleagues, before I take a break, please, so we agreed to interrupt the session at 11:45. I expected this to go in a way that we didn't have to do it, we had to do the whole thing. Can this break be shorter? Could it be 10 minutes? Because I don't think there's much of it. Please, 10 minutes break. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please begin work. The break was made at the request of the SNSD Club. Is there a need to explain, there is no – there is? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8485	Thank you, Chairman. Very short. I think we agreed, what you said, we wanted to check it out. The Joint College and the Extended College serve this kind of agreement, without anyone from the Council of Ministers, without anyone else, and assuming that a new session can be called upon as requested. The budget is, of course, an important question, they have some things that are agreed on, and at this point I don't see the purpose of us today achieving any inclusion of new points. And we're ready, if someone asks for a special budget session, if there's no movement, that we participate in it and prepare it properly, properly.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8486	Thank you. I'm also warning the promoters that the material for these proposals, these points, we don't have. And the information on the activities of the budget announcement, if we adopt this point, means that information should be prepared and this looks more like a parliamentary issue to me – whether there is a BiH Budget for 2011, but I'm saying that we don't have any materials on it right now. If the agenda points were to be adopted, it would take time for the materials to be prepared. Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8487	Thank you. Here I was, meanwhile, hearing some information that I didn't have when I suggested this agenda point and now some thought I was going to withdraw this proposal. That information I've heard in the meantime is a reason for us to hear more, that we all hear officially, so they're not going to be the ones in the halls of the hearsay. I want to tell you all that I've been coming to this session for 50 km today, and I assume that those who have traveled 100 km have had to travel four hours to come to this session today. If the whole Bosnian-Herzegovina public is today following the uncertainty about whether BiH has this budget, whether it will be announced, whether it is published, whether it is directed to publish, whether there will be possibilities to service the external debt, whether 22 thousand employees who receive the salary from the BiH institution's budget will receive a salary for the first month, I see no reason why we as representatives today have no information. This is short information – at which stage are the activities. And I know that the Joint College of both homes has established some conclusions whose deadline for realization today. So, gentlemen of the College, both of them, but I'm talking to you now -- you've been involved in defining these conclusions. You said today was the end day for publication. That's not what I said. Which is the problem of saying why it's a problem to publish this budget today. So we know, I don't see, there doesn't need any material. So either you have to say, today we're referring this budget to the announcement or, if you don't want to do it, tell us why you don't think to do it. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8488	Thank you. It would make sense that today's work day was over and that the possibility of anything coming from the Presidency was still open. So nothing's done yet and this is still a work day. Dear Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8489	Here is just a brief on this formalization about whether or not the agenda of the House of Representatives has been set up after the General College meeting. First, no one here questioned what was as a agenda agreed, those two points agreed as the agenda of this session. Mr. Lozančić did not question those two points. Secondly, we did not say in the extended college that there is no possibility of extending the agenda in the event of any need. I also think that some interests are more important than this formal moment that some are called upon.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8490	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8491	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and fellow guests, I would like to ask here one question, precisely, which I have asked, and which is why my vote was 'against' of the enlarged College when it was decided to adopt the budget. That's when I said it was a knee-broken and 5 that the six party leaders simply wanted for 24 or 48 hours to bring this budget and I voted against that conclusion. Today it has been confirmed precisely that we do not have a budget today and all that is going on in this part and I do not think Parliament can remain without any information on the course of the budget: do we have it, do we not have it? Will it be published today or won't it? This is for the functioning of BiH, the obligation of BiH to all signed contracts, and I don't think we can go deaf about it and not put or get at least any information. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8492	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8493	Thank you, Chairman. The Serbian Democratic Party will support Mr Lozančić's initiative, because we ourselves are interested in knowing whether or not we have a budget. We don't have any information, we don't know what's going on. I think it would be irresponsible to leave here today, spend another weekend and then come back to some session to make some extra new expenses in a situation where we don't even know if we have or don't have and will have and when we're going to have a budget and we support that this point finds itself as the third item of the agenda, after the proposed two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8494	Mr. Belkić, you still have a replica of one, do you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8495	Well, here's to me being very specific and understandable to the end. So I'm not looking for this agenda point because I don't know. I know that BiH has no budget for 2011 and that the impossible mission on February 3rd 2012 is in any way, by any gymnastics to have it, regardless of all conclusions, on all correspondence, correspondence, etc. So, at the time when the conclusions were adopted, we warned that it was a violation of the Constitution, that it was a violation of the law, etc., but it was a persistent waste of time, and it was constantly trying to amnesty in some way. That's impossible, definitely impossible. BiH does not have a 2011 budget and there is no gymnastics that can do it. A month ago, it was time to make a 2012 budget. I'm just asking you to make a statement on the agenda point.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8496	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. I ask Reverend Nik Lozančić, who suggested that this be the first item of the agenda, does he remain at his request? Please, 6 NOBODY
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8497	: I'll have a third. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8498	Third. Please, I ask the House to make a statement on the proposal to amend the agenda on the basis of the request of the honourable MP, Niko Lozančić. ... So, the proposal I received in writing is from Honorable MP Niko Lozančić, who I put to the vote, and he says: Information on the activities of the 2011 BiH institutions budget. And the suggestion is that it be the third point of today's agenda. Please, Saša.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8499	: Just one question before the vote, if that's all right. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8500	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8501	I'm sorry I may be late for this, but it's important for us to make our final decision. So, it would be good if the motionor told us who would give us this information, who that information was required to know whether we needed a break or not, that someone who would give that information would come. Is it from Mr Špirić, Vrankić or perhaps the two of them combined information or that we only know before we know who we are asking for this information and will we have a break to prepare that information? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8502	This is a misunderstanding in this matter, and MPs need to make a statement about the proposed change in the agenda. The promoter has the right to ask for information, and Dom to confirm it or not. Is there any need to answer to this? Did I close the debate? Here you go. Then you'll change this agenda point or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8503	I won't change it, there's no reason to change it. I request information from the Joint College of both homes that you, the College of this House, can provide, and, if you consider that we need information from the Presidency, from the Council of Ministers, you also provide that information.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8504	Thank you. Please prepare. What? A five-minute break at the SDP Club's request. 7 [[PAUZA]] My colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats to continue our work. Is there a need for a SDP club president to explain? There isn't. We can go to the vote, we're in the voting phase. Please prepare. Glasm just means for the proposal of esteemed colleague Niko Lozančić that the point entitled 'Information on the activities of the publication of the 2011 BiH Institution Budget' is to be classified as the third point of today's proposed agenda. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 11, 'against' 20,'restricted' wasn't. I'm guessing this point didn't get the necessary majority to include. We move on to the proposal of distinguished counterpart Beriz Belkić for inclusion in today's agenda, entitled 'Is BiH Budget 2011'. It would also be the third item of the agenda. Prepare to vote. You can vote now. "For" seven, "against" 21, "restricted" five. I find that even this item of the agenda has not received the required majority. I find that today we have adopted the agenda
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8509	I'll be very brief. So the emergency procedure is in situations where the matter is urgent, of course, and when it comes to less complex regulation or subject matter. As for urgency, we're so late that the day up and down doesn't mean anything. So that argument is not particularly valid. And as for complexity, I hope that we can agree that it is a law that has dozens of members, that it is a very important matter, so it is my opinion that this law does not meet the business conditions to be considered by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8510	Thank you. Since there are no more discussions, I'm closing the debate. Moving to the second item of the agenda: Ad2. Report by the Joint Commission on the achievement of agreement on the identical text of the Census, Households and Apartments Act in BiH 2013 You all got the report. The Joint Commission has reached agreement. I'm opening a debate. No, honourable Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8512	Here I see that this is going at a fast pace, so I understand a little bit. But here, let me say a few sentences anyway. I'll probably repeat what we've been doing for months, so let's not say, for years we've been talking about this law. The novelty, of course, is that through this agreement, i.e. the alignment of these two texts, came out with the requirements of the RS, so Article 48 was eliminated. It is added that the list, i.e. Another point has been added that the census results will be provided at all levels of 9 authorities, which was not in the earlier version. Motives and why it's insisted on this, so it could be guessed. So, in one word, we still stand on the fact that such a law should not have been passed, but it is obvious that there is an agreement and what a man can only say: that this Law on the census and the Law on State aid are not in favour of the state of BiH, that solutions that are not the happiest are accepted. But here's the deal, obviously there is, so let's make it happy.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8513	Dear Ambassador Mirsad Mešić. Replic or correcting an incorrect quote? Some of it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8514	Mr. Chairman, both.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8515	Both of you, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8516	Mr. Belkić, when you talk about wasting your time, then it probably has something to do with the April package story, so we don't talk about either, or the other, or the third. So, I ask you to take this as a political agreement, which BiH will only benefit from, because it is likely that in some five, six or seven months, candidate status awaits us. Without this, there's nothing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8517	Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8518	Thank you, Chairman. I would look back and replicate Mr Belkić's finding that these are not solutions that are in the interest of the BiH state. Mr. Belkić, in BiH's interest are those solutions that we come up with mutual agreements and consensus. These are exactly the kind of solutions. BiH can also move forward, only by agreeing and taking a step-by-step together. This is such a solution. It took us a long time to get to him, but here they came; your party that was against these solutions, specifically in the Census Act, which is why it is in opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8519	Thank you. The reply to the replica has a distinguished MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8520	I think you should get used to having different opinions, yeah. This country has signed a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and has pledged to establish a independent state body to which it will entrust the powers, etc. We have received an organization of the SACUD type, who remembers, older: so the Union of Amateur Cultural Artistic Society, only with mandatory membership. So we didn't get a serious institution. I am very glad that the EU accepts everything we agree here, so 10 are being questioned by these European standards. What are they? And that arrangement I absolutely welcome but on the condition that it's not a dictatorship. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8521	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go. So we're talking about the report, about the alignment. There's a story on the agenda about the Census Act, that is, the Report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8522	I'm going to give up one piece of the replica, because now I see that dear colleague Belkić has no right to replication and is not correct. And I'm gonna tell him that we're ending this the same way we did the police reform, when Milorad and Haris sat down, they said let these go, we'll finish it. And anyway, it was faster, for the night the same, and also some of you had these comments that it was done the way it was done and, well, who's up there now, who's down there right now is up and then everybody's used, only we're obviously forgetting a little bit about everything. So this isn't the first time, and I think it's much better to do this than not.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8523	Thank you. Discussion, Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8524	And I'd just have to say a few sentences here about the population list law. Simply, who has held the people and citizens of BiH in such a state that this has not been adopted before. Why something that has not been changed in the Constitution, in 28.12.2011, has not changed the Constitution, which was the category for which Article 48 was placed and respected and not adopted before, one must explain why BiH citizens have stood in line for three years for all that the EU has prescribed. It is clear that Mr. Čović said the night before last that this agreement was a Prudic agreement and that three years ago this law was agreed on. So this law is a deal in Prudo three years ago, and it has to be explained to the people, to stick to the leash, to simply not allow some things and to go towards the European path properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8525	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8526	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's good for BiH to have both of these laws today. We are now talking about the Census Act because without these laws, there is no candidate status, no State aid law, and without the Census Act 11 population will be blocked already this year, or next year, when certain data should be provided after the census. What has defined me to be in line with those who will support, among other things, and these solutions from the Census Act, I have talked about this for a long and long time – the fact that in entity constitutions, cantonal constitutions, it is clearly written that until the final implementation of the Annex VII of the Dayton Peace Agreement, the 1991 census, regardless of all future censuses, remains the basis for calculating the participation of constituent peoples, others and citizens in BiH, when it comes to power. Therefore, that provision deletes Article 48. BiH is not losing anything, we are getting a law that will allow BiH to go on its European path. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8527	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8528	The Alliance for a Better Future is certainly on a path BiH should be on its way to the EU, but someone has to answer and say why by yesterday this was not all constitutionally important and for three years BiH and BiH citizens are holding in isolation that they are not going the European way. That's what I'm talking about. The law is very important. Right, but then why didn't the Constitution be read, both entity and state, and formulated or analyzed in this way as it is analyzed today? These are questions as to why BiH citizens have been pushed completely on the wrong lines for three years and created one negative energy within BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8529	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8530	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I answered the line for the simple reason that some incorrect allegations and facts have been presented here, and I am amazed that this is the case with colleague Šefik Džaferović, who was also a former member of this commission, that is, in this moment; yes, we were together this morning, and fellow Đugum for saying that he had been standing this law for three years, that he didn't want anyone to work, that BiH citizens were being held back. It's simply not true, because in the last session, the commission that was formed with the task of working on the preparation of such a law has worked intensively. And what I don't know is why Mr. Šefik Džaferović should have spoken now as a lawyer who knows very well that one law, which, when passed, is worth it or not. And, if it's worth it, it's worth everything that's in it, or it's not respecting what's not in it and what's been erased, either by amendment, or by any other kind of transformation. 12 To talk now about how we should vote today on the Census Act, where it is already available and clear that Article 48, which was to be prescribed in an old text proposal, will also be done after this list of authorities and everything will be done according to the results of the '91 census. For years, it's simply false and false. This law that we are going to vote on today, with the amendments tabled on it, no longer contains that Article 48. So there's no more story about the results of the '91 census, just the results of the list that will take place in 2013. That's what this law says. Only if counterpart Džaferović thinks that today we adopt a law like this and conduct a census according to this law, and then the next year when we add the results to someone's memory, he says, well, they're not the results but where they're the results from '91. years, then we'll, you and that story can set, but then we'll have another kind of problem. Then we will question both the list itself and the funds that are spent on all of this, so we will not admit one process that we have implemented and done and ended up under the law that we ourselves have passed. And so I don't know why you needed to say it now and mention Annex VII and this and that, when you're very clear that today, if the law is passed, the list will be implemented under that law and the results of that list will be relevant and no other. And that someone was holding someone in error and in some delays, colleague Đugum, you are a young party and it is the first time in this assembly MP, but it was at least appropriate to inform yourself, when you were preparing to speak about this law, then to gather all the information and all the information that is related to this process which is not the process of this calling on Parliament, but long before you came to this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8531	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirsad Đugum, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8532	Thank you. I said we were mistaken because one of the leaders in this six said this deal was reached three years before today, or that it was agreed in Prud. And if he's agreed in Prud and today's vote is being voted on, then we're mistaken, because for three years there's been a blockade. That's based on what Mr. Čović said about this part. And I thank Mrs Marković for this explanation and clarification, because we now have two conflicting visions of the adoption of the List Act. I don't know what exactly is? And sir... please, just a little bit, so look here now, now Mr. Džaferović in front of the SDA said one finding, the six agreed on this law. And we have an obstacle to the application of this law tomorrow. And therefore, as members or as opposition, we did not participate in the agreement, this law is now being passed and we have different visions and interpretations of this law and tomorrow's application.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8533	Thank you. fellow Members of the Parliament, I would like to warn you that we are discussing the Joint Commission's report, that you stick to the agenda and that we should try to complete this item on the agenda. 13 Dear Ambassador Darko Babalj, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8534	Thank you, Chairman. Mr. Đugu, we don't have two conflicting opinions here, but we have facts and laws, but it looks like we have on cameras and direct TV transmissions, so we're trying to make some big spectacles here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8535	Thank you. Discussion, Ambassador Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8536	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I often don't like to get into these political polemics, because I may be too emotional for these kind of performances, but I closely monitor everything my respected colleagues and colleagues do and speak about my country and my country of BiH. I am a man, Mr. Chairman, logic and common sense without whom I could not live among you. And I'm very upset by this setting that's confirmed here today from two different angles. Maybe the angle of observation really leads to a conflict of opinion, so I can see that's what's going on here. But I'm saying based on logic and common sense, thinking about the problem that's being put on us here today, I'm thinking like a simple man who's probably listening to us, watching and looking at us, when it's given him a chance. If it is beautifully stated that this Census Law has absolutely nothing to do with the '91 census. the year, which provides for the safety of work and action of all selected BiH institutions, as it already stands there, as we all know, and that it will continue to apply as prescribed by the Dayton Constitution, is it so, and then it is called out that it does not matter if it is not at the state level because it already has at the entity level, I wonder by the logic of common sense, if it already exists at the entity level that will solve it, then what is the confusion of Article 48. The Constitution? I mean, he's dealing with the logic of common sense. The same problem, we have an entity-level solution, but we don't recognize that same solution at the state level. I'm sorry, maybe I don't really understand this policy, so someone can explain it to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8537	Thank you. The next for discussion is Ambassador Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8538	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I am primarily in favour of these agreed amendments, because I think it is very important and very important that this House adopt this law as soon as possible and that this law enters into force as soon as possible. Because this law is not necessary for BiH citizens. They didn't care whether it was 3 million or 4 million, they don't care if so many Hrvat, so many Bošnjak, don't care about the citizens. This is very important for those of us who run BiH. And that is why I support that we adopt this law as soon as possible, so that we can manage BiH more easily. And me, as a man and my political option, it doesn't even matter to me whether Hrvat, Bošnjak, Srbin operate in BiH, it's very important to me how BiH is managed. I hope in the future that it will not be managed like so far, that we will change direction and adopt this law as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8539	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8540	The Honorable Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, just for the sake of clarifying and failing to bring confusion to the public, when we vote and if we do not pass this law. So, in the last session of Parliament, I have repeated it several times, and because of my new colleagues, I will only say very briefly. I'm one of the few and only ones who's been since '91. For years, when that list was completed, it was really in another function, not an MP, and I claim and I know. Check the stenograms if they are not destroyed. Never had any institutions, and it was the BiH Assembly's responsibility to verify the results of the '91 census. years...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8541	Agenda!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8542	That's why they're illegal, so don't make a mistake, I'm sorry, I'm done. They would not make a mistake, and I support the presentation of my colleague Marković, who said: by adopting this law, everything that was once of no importance no longer exists and withdrawing again even in parliamentary procedure, and in particular there is no effect on the fact that the public is not fully informed of what this law has adopted. He brought that no more application of the '91 census results. A year.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8543	Agenda, agenda, please report to the Commission on the alignment, agenda!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8544	I understand everything, Mr. Chairman, but since you've heard all sorts of stories here, and that will be the most important thing for the public, we don't honor them today by passing this law. So, what was 15 '91? A year? It was that these results were not verified, this is a new law, and when it came into force it would be applied and its results would have effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8545	Thank you. Dear colleague Ismeta Dervoz, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8546	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I will try very clearly, briefly and taxively to ask a few questions. Mr. Babalj came out, I'm sorry, but I'd like to know the answer to the question – what does it mean that we have on TV cameras here? Well, then, with the TV cameras on, we probably have space to lie to the public. We make a deal somewhere when there's no cameras, and then in front of the cameras, we cheat, twist the facts, or we justify ourselves for the decision we've made. So that's something to be answered by gentlemen who have told us exactly about the same law in two different ways. It is clear to us what this law means and what it brings. It is clear to us that this law, of course, makes a decision that will have to be implemented because why laws are passed in one country, if they are not respected in any way. Did we say today in Parliament that we would pass a law that was not valid? Then what are we gentlemen voting for here and what are we deciding? Once again on behalf of our club, I thank Mrs. Marković. She made it perfectly clear what was what we were about to vote on. We remind you that in making decisions in the future it is important not to waste time on the citizens of this country, not to bring them into an increasingly difficult and difficult position. If this is something that could have been solved three years ago, gentlemen, what have we been waiting for today? And what is this next law with which we will wait for the next three years, until the critical mass of the leader's agreement is obtained, which will decide, and then we will interpret it here in different ways. I also want to say that we care about what the citizens of this law think about it. And the citizens know it's not that simple to think about something like this in the morning and afternoon like that. Until yesterday, a member of 48 was of vital interest. It's not that important today, we can erase it. I'm not so sure that's what the BiH citizens think about it this way, as far as he's concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-03-1.u8547	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. The college has decided to proceed immediately with the vote. We are voting on the request of the Members of Parliament. So, there's a vote on the request: if the request is passed, we move on to the debate on this law. The request of MPs Milorad Živković, Božo Ljubić and others to consider the proposal for a law on the state aid system. 16 Please prepare to vote. Vote, now! Twenty-six, three, abstention two. Enough entity majority. I understand we've adopted this request. We're moving on to a debate about this law. I'm opening a debate, please. If there are no reports, I conclude the debate and we move on to a vote on this law. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "In" 25, "against" two, "restricted" one. I find that we have passed the Law on the State Aid System in BiH. We move to a vote on the 2nd item of the agenda: Report of the Joint Commission of both homes on reaching agreement on the identical text of the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in BiH in 2013 Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "In" 25, "against" four, "restricted" two. I agree that we adopted the Joint Commission Report of both homes on achieving agreement on the identical text of the Census, Households and Apartments Act in BiH in 2013. I'm closing the session and one notice. According to available SIPA data, in the second half of next week, most likely Thursday, conditions could be created to confirm the Council of Ministers. So it's not about us, it's about the other institutions. I warn the MPs that this may happen on Thursday. Thanks again. The seat is closed at 14.35.
