ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11253	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I am opening the 32nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, and representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our House, representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all arrivals of MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MP Azra Hadžiahmetović and MP Amir Fazlić. 33 MPs are present, according to the information provided by the Service. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the amendments and additions to the agenda, I would like to inform you that point 3 is added to the agenda. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. The agenda has been removed earlier, point 6. Proposal for a law on BiH associations (first reading) at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission. He set a new deadline for delivering an opinion to the next House meeting. Point 8. The report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2011 and the addition of the report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2011, as the Commission for Finance and Budget adopted a conclusion delaying the examination of the Report. Point 9. The Annual Report on the Transport of Strategic Goods for 2008, 2009, 2010, has not been reviewed by the Commission due to the absence of the applicant. He set a deadline for the House to deliver an opinion until the next session. This morning we received from the Chairmanial Council of Ministers, more specifically at the request of the finance minister to join the agenda and two agreements that arrived yesterday, we received them this morning. It's about: 1. Agreement of the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the loan from the Fund for Economic Development Co-operation for the Phase III Modernisation of Hospitals; and 2. Agreement on the loan of Phase III to the Modernisation of Hospitals in Bosnia and Herzegovina between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Republika Srpska and the Export-Import Bank of Korea (EDCF Government Agency). Given that our Commission has placed these agreements on the agenda of its 2nd session this morning and that we have received information from the chairman of the Commission that these agreements have been discussed and that they have been agreed to ratify them automatically become an integral part of the amended and updated agenda of the 32nd session of the House of Representatives as points 13 and 14. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I find that the adoption of the agenda is the 32nd session of the House of Representatives: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 31st session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament issues: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Law No 01,02-02-1-31/12 of 13.07.2012; 4. Proposal for a law on conflict of interest in BiH authorities – MPs: Milorad Živković, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović and Niko Lozančić, Law No: 01-02-1 27/12 of 02.07.2012 (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law on the financing of political parties – MPs: Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović and Niko Lozančić, Law No: 01-02-1-28/12 of 02.07.2012 (second reading); 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-26/12 of 26.06.2012 (first reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1 30/12 of 11/07.2012 (first reading); 8. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the BiH Ombudsman's work report for the period 01.01/11. - 31.12.2011, BiH Law Department material, issue: 01.02-10-742/12 since 21.06.2012; 9. The Commission's report to the College on an effort to reach agreement on the initiative of MP Nermine Ćemalović from the 29th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, held on 07.06.2012, which reads: "Article 8. I present the Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives with a parliamentary initiative to the colleges of both the BiH Parlametary Assembly to decide on a decision by the BiH Council of Ministers to set up a commission for the selection of Bosnia and Herzegovina's texts, in which they will be representatives of both the BiH Parlametary Assembly and cultural and public workers. The Commission will adopt its rules of procedure and work plan after the constitution, establish the text and conduct a public competition for the selection of the text of Bosnia and Herzegovina's national anthem according to the legal procedure, and select the best-ranked text and establish a proposal for the text of Bosnia and Herzegovina's national anthem. The BiH Council of Ministers is then ordered to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure of the draft law amending the law on the national anthem of Bosnia and Herzegovina; 3 10. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH, the material of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics; 11. Conclusion of the 4th session of the Research Commission on the establishment of the spending of donor funds, issue: 01-50-428-4.1/12 of 06.07.2012; 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Raiffeisen Bank International AG – Project for Modernisation of the University of Banja Luka, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-894/12 of 10.07.2012; 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the loan of Phase III of the Modernisation of Hospitals in Bosnia and Herzegovina between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republika Srpska and the Export and Import Bank of Korea (Government of the EDCF Agency), material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-920/12 of 17.07.2012; 14. Giving consent to ratification of the arrangement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the loan from the Economic Development Co-operation Fund for Phase III of the Hospital Modernisation Project, materials of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-919/12 since 17.07.2012. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 31st session of the House of Representatives You've got the record. Do you have any comments? Dear colleague Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11255	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11256	You haven't answered. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received Until today's session, the answers to questions and the initiatives asked were: Dragan Vrankić of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked at the 28th session of the House; Zijad Jagodić of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked the question at the 27th and Ministry of Communications and Transport of BiH, asked at the 30th session of the House; Nermin Purić of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked on 26th, the Governments of the RS and the Government of the West-Herzegovina Canton, asked at the 28th session of the House; Dušanka Majkić of the Council of Ministers of BiH, at the initiative on 25th and asked at the 27th session of the House (two replies); Denis Bećirović of the Council of Ministers of BiH, asked 4 questions at the 27th session of the House, Asim Sarajlić of Foreign Affairs, asked at the 29th session of the House; Boško Tomić from the Secretary of the Joint Affairs of the Parliament and the Parliament on the Mirsad and the Parliament on the 29th Mešić of the meeting of the meeting of the Parliament. Also at the last 31st session of the House, due to the volume of responses it received and the inability to get acquainted with the same, MP Dušanka Majkić did not comment on the answers received by the Council of Ministers, to the initiative on the 20th and parliamentary issue set at the 24th session of the House, the BiH Ministry of Defence, asked on 28th, and the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, to the initiative addressed at the 24th session of the House. A letter can do that at this session. First came the honorary colleague Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11258	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen. I have asked the Administration for indirect taxation on the fate of easily corrupt goods taken away in administrative proceedings or committing a criminal offence. The answer I received from Dr. Džakula, director of the Board, is part of the answer to this question, and he has mostly answered about goods that have something to do with corruption, which are food of animal origin, plant foods and so on. I actually had reason to ask the question because I, I have information that huge amounts of coffee are failing in these procedures and that the indirect tax administration doesn't have an adequate answer to how to prevent these damages. Namely, a coffee truck costs approximately 200,000 marks and, when destroyed, of course, invaluable damage has been done, above all, to the Budget of BiH. Unsatisfactory, therefore, because I did not get the answer I expected, I am using this opportunity to launch an initiative to discuss this issue at one of the September sessions so that, in the debate that will follow, of course, we might also be able to change some legal solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11259	Thank you. Please write it in writing as an initiative. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11260	Thank you. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, I got really many answers, two for today's session and, because last time I asked for my statement to be prolonged because it was one large material that had to be examined. But I want to say a few observations, I mean one sentence only for these few important things. It is known that it had to remain noticed by colleagues and colleagues of the Council of Ministers' response to the famous Commission for concessions which, for, from 2005 to 2011, did not issue a single solution, in fact one was conditional because it had not received any, never agreed response from the competent institutions and that it had spent nearly 6 million at that time. It's official. The data when we're talking to 5 how much our rational institutions are, we see 6 million we've thrown away, and maybe we could have one of these institutions that many are complaining about not having enough money to work, we could have rerouted that part of the money in that direction. Secondly, the justification for the existence of individual BiH institutions, I am pleased that the Minister of Security in Departure, at the end of his term, I guess at the end of his mandate, has found that there is still a need to examine the existence of a forensics laboratory, or the Agency for Forensic Inquisition and Arts, and I am glad that in this sense a commission is formed to examine the necessity of existence, the continued existence of such an institution. What I would like to draw as significant is the answer I have been trying to reach for a long time, it is related to international agreements on which Parliament does not receive any information, especially those agreements with bilaterals that sign BiH and which have problems in realisation. So it is embarrassing that the foreign ministry delivers such materials to Parliament. So, I'm not going to accuse anyone, but it's simply a terrible finding that there is no one in this country who knows how much BiH really has concluded the agreement. I have seen that not everyone is even covered, let alone how many agreements are invalid or for which there are recorded problems in the work. If Parliament becomes so powerless, who is the other one who can change the situation when it comes to international agreements and agreements. We all know how much pointless agreements have been signed in the last term, and last time I spoke... I instructed all that nonsense. Here, it's a devastating condition, and me a guideline of what to do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11261	Thank you. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11262	Thank you. Chairman, co-chairing, distinguished fellow Members and fellow Members, guests, I welcome you all together. I got two answers. One of the Council of Ministers on issues I have asked regarding the issue of travel documents for BiH citizens and, above all, those living and staying in the Kosovo area. With that answer, I am partly satisfied, but when I check both information and other information, then I will definitely decide what to do next. In the second response, which I addressed to the BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications, in which I sought information about transport policy, transport strategy and action plans in BiH, the answer I received is absolutely not about this issue but about some obligations through BiH but nothing about what the issue is about. However, that it is unserious to confirm another information that the title corresponds to me as an MP, and immediately the name and last name of the MPs, who I happen to know from before, is Mr Sadik Bahtić. I have nothing to do with Sadik Bahtić or I don't know who wrote it, and here is proof, so I would ask all those who respond in the future to see whom they write, what they write, and what they want to accomplish. So I find it extremely inconclusive, and I would ask that neither of you would have happened to me or to you by those who are sending answers. Thank you. 6
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11263	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11264	Thank you. Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, esteemed guests, media representatives, I welcome you all together. At the 28th session of this House, held on 24 May, I asked a parliamentary question that I referred to several addresses regarding the fight against black labour. Since the answers to this question are still coming, I would ask you for the possibility, so at the next session, I would like to comment on the answers. I hope all the answers will arrive by then.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11265	Okay. No more comments reported. Let's go to b) New MP questions Dear colleague Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11267	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Almost a year ago I asked a parliamentary question about the realisation of the Plan for Construction of Banjsko... spa... kakanj municipality. Unfortunately, I have never received an answer to my parliamentary initiative. Recently, I received a personal address at the SBB MPs' club, a response from the Federal Ministry, a resolute ministry at the Federation of BiH level on the implementation of the project. In that response, which did not come in response to the parliamentary initiative, but came personally to me as an MP, even expressed criticism by the Government of the Women-Doboj Canton which has never responded, which is a shame. I repeated that question a few months ago, and I still didn't get an answer for him in official form. I am now asking again the question of the Government of the Women's Doboj canton and I am looking in writing for an answer to my initiative – How long and how is the Construction Plan of Banjsko... spa...? It is a very, very nice project, especially for the town of Kakanj, which we know is one of the most polluting cities in Yugoslavia in the former ex-Yugoslavia, and also in BiH has long been considered the most polluted city. All the dirty industry was situated unfortunately in that little boiler called Kakanj. The Kakanj thermal power plant and Cementara Kakanj have taken every effort to ease it, and thank Bog today the situation is much, much better than before. By building this banjsko... spa this city and its citizens and residents, they would get a lot of attention to these people, to build something nice, good and without pollution finally and definitely. 7 I am concerned that the Government of the Pupil-Doboy Canton even to its Member of state, as I am, because I come from that canton, has not entitled to give an answer to the initiative set. It worries me, because I'm afraid, like many investment projects that are being done in this country, they're not being tyconized again and there's not some plight about it. I'm telling you this honestly and honestly. And that's why I want and I want to set up a parliamentary initiative again, and I ask that I be answered in writing and delivered the complete realization of the current programs within the framework of the creation and final realization of the project that has been standing in drawers for almost 30 years, and it's called banjski... spa... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11268	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11269	Thank you, Mr. President. I have one question for the BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications – Is it true that the technical examination of the motor vehicle carried out in one entity is not valid when registering a vehicle in another entity? If that's true, what will you do to remove this anomaly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11270	Thank you. The next is Commissioner Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11271	My question is to the Court of Justice of BiH. The person Fadil Al Hamdani, an Iraqi citizen, was considered a serious threat to BiH's national security, deprived of BiH citizenship, a measure of banishment from BiH, since 02.05.2012, does not carry out its obligations under the ruling of the BiH Administrative Council of the Court of Justice, so daily reporting to foreign affairs services. The BiH Court's decision to lay down a milder control measure for the person has affected the appointed person from BiH. My question is – Why did the Court of Justice not annul the solution in question and return it to the first-degree authority for a re-determination, but, on the contrary, in the dispute of full jurisdiction, it replaced the contested administrative act and decided to further appreciate the assessments that are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the Intelligence Security Agency. In addition, I would like to give as an explanation that the European Court of Human Rights' ruling of 07.02.2012 decided that the surveillance measure at the Fadil Al Hamdanija immigration centre, following the adoption of the eviction solution, was legal and that the distance of that person in the country of origin would not result in a breach of Article 3. European Conventions. So now that 8 has ceased to apply to the European Court of Justice, which is why BiH authorities are able to deport Fadil ali Hamdanija until the verdict is passed under its application, and when all the formal legal conditions for its distance have been obtained, the person in question has disappeared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11272	Thank you. Dear Representative Nermina Čemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11273	Mr. Vice President, allow me to welcome everyone present. My question has been asked to the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and that is – Are they planning to consider and pass the Law on Fundamental Rights of persons with disabilities in BiH and the Law on Medical Skills of BiH? In my explanation, I quote the following. Representatives of the Civil Disabilities Association from various parts of BiH spoke to the European Commission in Brussels a few days ago, where they were admitted to the office of Enlargement Commissioner Stefan File. The reason for the address is to equalise their rights throughout the BiH area. On this occasion, they called for the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the possibility of adopting the abovementioned laws. Namely, their rights and fees vary in both entities and Brcko District. I'm looking for an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11274	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11275	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. I have two short questions. First is the Council of Ministers, i.e. Minister of Finance, Directorate for Direct Taxation, Director and SIPA, Director. – What will you do to prevent illegal trafficking of oil products in BiH, which is the sponsor of the Bosnian Ship Oil Refinery? Is it the deliberate economic subjugation of the country by several entities, and are there certain political circles behind them, or is the classical abuse of the Regulations on the application of the Excise Act, "the Official Messenger of BiH" No 48, since 25.06.2012? A letter with all the details is attached. The second question is to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Ministry of Defence of BiH – How many raw materials created by the destruction of material and technical resources in TROM Doboj was sold in 2006-2012, and was the sale in accordance with the BiH Ministry of Defence SOP and in accordance with the Public Procurement Act? Did the Director of TROM, Mr. Garić, have the consent of the BiH Ministry of Defence to obtain lawn mowers and other equipment without a tender, and to pay the same amount of raw material obtained by deboration, in such a way that the price of the same contract, by agreement, determines voluntarily and beyond the market price, and what amounts of raw materials are estranged in this way? On the basis of which the company "MILKOS" from the Palace is a privileged buyer of waste material, i.e. a furde of TROM-9 a Doboj, and how much funding BiH's Ministry of Defence has given for the decommissioning of the TROM Doboj for the destruction of ammunition in the so-called "MILKOS" company. Rotating furnaces? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11276	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11277	The question is for the Ministry of Civil Affairs – Did you and why, as the competent ministry, give up on the implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court Decision on the Law on Citizenship of BiH even though the deadline for its implementation expired in early June of this year? I have to repeat what's probably familiar to you all here. In time, the ministry did a proposal for amending and supplementing the law and with the best intentions somewhat broader than the decision did. Unfortunately, we have not reached consensus here and these amendments and additions to the Law have not been adopted. The arguments I have heard informally, so to speak, are heading towards the implementation of the Constitutional Court Decision with decisions in some other laws, which is practically inadmissible. So, regardless of all of this, I again call on the Ministration to do its part of the job and to propose amendments, so by means of a clean, concrete implementation of the BiH Constitutional Court ruling, Article 17, Article 18. The second question, of course, for BiH's Attorney General, regarding state property, new circumstances. The question, therefore, is whether the recent decision of the BiH Constitutional Court on state property, which is undoubtedly confirmed that the BiH state is the head of the property, will be sufficient argument for you to continue unnecessarily interrupted in BiH's state property book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11278	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11279	I have a question for the Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices of BiH – Are bacteriologically infected bottles and medicines of Hemofarma located in BiH pharmacies? In view of the information provided by the US Food and Drug Control Agency, which has been published in domestic and international media these days, which prohibits the import into the American market of this producer, for the reasons of enormous bacteriological infection, which causes the most severe human diseases, so I ask the Agency to respond and I urge them to take the most stringent measures for the import of medicines and funds, both this and other manufacturers who have been warned and punished for such failures and irregularities. The second question is for the state, entity and cantonal ministries of transport and communication – to what extent the competent transport and communication ministries in BiH apply the applicable regulations and 10 obligations under signed international agreements and laws for the entire transport and communication sector and, if not, why not? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11280	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11281	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs. Lately, there have been significant damages in BiH's premises frequently. At some initial stages, if damages were to be resolved more effectively, they would be significantly less. For this reason I ask the question of the Ministry of Defence – Why does the Ministry of Defence not respond in due time, including its members and technique, to help the population and local communities, to eliminate the elemental disasters, especially when it comes to fires and floods that would be prevented in the initial stages and thus reduced major material damages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11282	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11283	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear colleagues. My questions concern, not that I would get some knowledge, because I just know it, I just want to initiate solving certain things. I would like to ask – What the Council of Ministers of BiH, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, or the Succession Commission, is doing about the collection of the clearing claim, by the Russian Federation, since BiH is the only country in the former Yugoslavia that has not resolved this issue, and I know that in the previous Council of Ministers' meeting we have reached an agreement that has not received a green light in the Presidency, for my understandable reasons. So here, just to make extra effort. The same issue in the area of succession, as the foreign exchange account issue in Yugoslav banks with 645m marks has been resolved, BiH belongs to 100m marks. Here, my question – What does it look like to charge? And even when it comes to the functioning of the Veterinary Office. We have heard these days that the European Commission has given a very poor assessment of this office and I simply want to ask – What makes the Council of Ministers feel like to fix the situation in this area in order to at least mitigate Croatia's entry into the EU with negative connotations in BiH. Thank you very much. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11284	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11285	Dear Chairman, distinguished members of the Council of Ministers and representatives of ministries, colleagues and colleagues. I have a question with the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers – When will it be possible to provide for the presence of representatives of the ministries, I am not talking about the position of office now, to attend committee meetings where the legislators of their ministry's law are? We already have at the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, I don't know if it's 5 or 6 times delaying and removing the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure, because there are no representatives of the ministry, and their law is in the session of the Commission. You know the distinguished colleagues, that the main discussions are being held on the committee. We have to ask them something. There are some things that we need to consult immediately, vagueness, misunderstandings or clarifications, but no one is there. I therefore ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers to provide the presence in the smallest position for Parliament meetings, not making any ranking, but the deputy minister or minister. And at the session of the committee to be a representative of the ministry in rank or secretary, or I don't know a counselor, or anyone, to have someone come to the committee's meeting. Here, today we have, we had a commission session, of course Koelgij took that point off the agenda. And all we did was respect the Rules of Procedure. I do not want to prefer anyone, to point out, but I have to say for the sake of the fact, something in this new council of parliament and the Council of Ministers has improved, but that no one resents me, Mr Sredoje Nović and these two deputy Mr Vidović, for the stenograms and Kasumović, have more presence in Parliament's sessions than some MPs in the previous meeting. Don't let anyone else get mad. Of course, now it's improved and you two ministers are coming in a little bit more than the rest. I, in the last meeting of a minister, have never seen it in Parliament's session. And if I hadn't met him on the street, he wouldn't have known he was the minister. _________(?) Which one is it? It doesn't matter who it is, you all know it. Now, please, I'm asking the chairman to provide himself at Parliament's meetings, I've already said, the presence of the least deputy. I will not ask what they are doing today, each doing something, but it is not a session of Parliament every day, in a week three times. But I can come. I can't be surprised to see it, watch it on TV, accidentally switch it, but I don't follow it because it doesn't matter, every day a session of the Montenegrin Parliament goes directly. And I'm kidding if it's really true or if it's reruns. Every day. And with us, I'm telling you five or six times we're taking down the agenda according to the Rules of Procedure, we can't get people to plead there's no one and they're legislators. And then my colleagues from the Centre of Civil Initiatives don't mind me, because I have great respect for them, they go public there and say Parliament's productivity is 2%, 5%. As there will be bigger people, there is no one. Who I'm gonna talk to. Thank you very much. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11287	Thank you. Dear Representative Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11288	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I'd have two questions. One question would be addressed to the Ministry of Finance of the Federation of BiH, and another question to the ICTY on issues of the defences of people with disabilities, i.e. Minister, when it comes to the Ministry of Defence, Mr Zukan Helez, and when it comes to the Ministry of Finance, I don't know if they'd call him a minister or a minister in any particular condition, Ante Krajina. Given that these days there have been a lot of speeches and stories in the public and various contradictions, when it comes to user audits, means the budget of the Ministry of Defence, the disabled and all those who have exercised their rights, and we have different statements in the public, and so it would be good to get one full information from the Ministry of Finance, so how much has been a token of the Ministry of Defence of the Federation for the sixth month, means for the last, 2012 and with a special emphasis on paying out the users on acquired rights, and how much is the payment to audit teams and all who are engaged in the contract of action? In order to compare financial expenditure, I need the same data for the 12th month of 2011. So you will see from the great story of the defence minister, how successful and effective these illegal audit procedures are and at the same time we have a disbanded this coordination team, and even engaged, on the issues of audits, 38 people high and medium professional preparations under the contract of action, of which 36 Bosniak membership, of which is 2 Croatian, that is, whether or not it works, just to say that some legal solutions are taken into account, when it comes to officials and subsistences in ministries, to see what the effects are, means these audits. And the second question would be, according to the Minister for Defence Affairs of National War Disabilities. I've got a document here called Command, an order is called, is it? And then I'd ask him in what business, rule, sublegal or legal act you've found a foothold for the adoption of a priority order in the revision process since 04.07.2012. Then I would ask the question – How far has the user been entitled from the start of the audit until 30.06.2012 and by the components? What are the financial effects of the audit so far,...who by law.../at the same time speaks Mr. Ljubić/...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11289	Thank you. I'd like to ask my fellow MPs and ministers to refrain from holding talks during the hearing. Here you go, Mr. Sokolović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11290	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 13 A quick question to the Council of Ministers,... I ask the question of the Council of Ministers – Why has the Council of Ministers negotiating team unilaterally interrupted negotiations with representatives of the BiH Border Police Unions? The negotiating team's decision has further upset the Border Police Union, which has been waiting three months for a solution to their demands. I note that the security minister, Mr Ahmetović Sadik, gave absolute support to the legitimate demands of the Border Police Trade Unions and all financial indicators during talks with representatives of the Border Police Unions delivered to the Council of Ministers for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11291	Thank you. This is how we exhausted the agenda point – the parliamentary issues. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives The BiH Council of Ministers of the Law delivered the proposal in parliamentary procedure on 13 July 2012, with a request to be considered by an urgent procedure. I'm opening a motion hearing. Here you go. Dear representative Beriz Belkić reported for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11293	So, this matter, or this emergency procedure request, may be explained by urgency, if the argument is considered and it is seen that representatives of the International Monetary Fund have set the condition for strengthening the position of the BiH state in terms of guaranteeing, restoring international obligations. However, the second basis for an emergency procedure request, the simplicity of the proposed changes and additions, does not stand. They may seem to be simple, but in my opinion, they are very observant changes. And I have the impression that practically instead of dealing with the responsibility of those who led to the blockade, as it is said here, service and so forth. and the key issue of budgeting, we are slowly getting used to and projecting the situation of temporary funding and opening space to the Council of Ministers so that it can practically create certain things in the budget. So, not to go into the content discussion now, in my opinion, there are no conditions for an emergency procedure when it comes to the simplicity of the proposed regulations. They seek procedure and seek serious discussion and consideration because it is a very important issue for the future. It's about the budget, the funding, etc. Here, so I can't support a request for an emergency procedure. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11294	Thank you. The following came to light for the debate, honourable representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11295	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask here the present finance minister, Mr Špirić, to answer only a few questions. So, is this particular emergency procedure necessary to conclude this arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, or can this withstand a regular procedure in which we would have a lot to say about these solutions? There are two problems here. Because now it's a debate on procedure, but you know we're not discussing the essence later, so I'm asking you to let me say just in two minutes something about the essence. Therefore, the problem is Article 1 and the change in attitude 5 which speaks of the Council of Ministers being able to take into account, during the temporary financing, some other expenditure which was not planned in the previous year by budget, and if the funds from indirect taxation for that period enable payment of that cost. I think that this provision requires a particular attention for the reason that Parliament is being given its role in this way, Parliament is the one that brings the budget. And we slowly, therefore, release Parliament from its obligations and transfer our obligations to the Council of Ministers. There is no accidental provision on the amount of temporary financing, which is maximum from the quarter of the previous year, which was planned by the budget, on what is relevant in the year and in the quarter to which the decision on temporary financing is concerned. And I ask that this issue be taken into account in particular. This, therefore, concerns the direct relationship between the legislative and executive authorities, whether BiH can enter this kind of model, whether we need it, therefore. If you need me to think that you need to make more details about the exceptions, not the general setting up of this thing. Indeed, there may be some urgent, necessary cost that may cause irreparable damage, and I would say as a member of Parliament who holds this amongst other things in our hands, we hold this in our hands, so we are responsible, perhaps give you authority to react in such a situation. But generally this is a problem and I'm asking you to give me an answer to this question. And the other thing about Article 3 of this, the amendment of the law, it concerns, is that it foresees a new position in Article 14 relating to Article 13(3). – To clarify what it means if the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury does not deliver payment orders within the prescribed time limit, that the Central Bank of BiH will request a payment instruction from the competent ministries and bodies of the RS, the Federation of BiH and Brcko District. I'm asking you to clarify that more precisely. My decision will also require an explanation for this point. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11296	If the Honorable Finance Minister wants to hear more questions and debates, then should he speak? But he has a right to respond immediately, if you like, or will you answer later? Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11297	Sir, Madam Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, honourable ministers. 15 The meaning of amending this Law actually comes from the end, from the moment of forming... the formation of a new Council of Ministers. The service of external debt must be no one's whim. That's why we got a reduced credit rating, which is why BiH is paying the price as a whole. We are the only country in Europe and the world that has blocked the service of external debt at a time of full liquidity, the only one. There's no one else. Why? If the Ministry of Finance refuses to give the order to the Central Bank, this has been happening to us, and the debts have been located in annuities, then in correspondence according to the entity government's and ministry's payment plan, the Central Bank will, as the competent one, be ordered to carry out the service of the external debt, so that the country does not pay the price. So it's about, I think it's a simple change. We did last time, we had to say there wasn't a temporary funding planned military exercise in Mostar, so until the budget decision was made, we decided to cover it from the budget reserve. It's for those purposes. There is no one whim of any kind, nor wants to take jurisdiction over any parliamentary assembly. So these amendments to the law, not what the International Monetary Fund is looking for, you can also have a re-adjustment procedure, I don't mind, but I wanted to help Parliament, because there will be unnecessary political debates, we will come up with a worse solution than we have in the existing law. So, the aim of the emergency procedure was to help, not to open unnecessary debates, not to accuse ourselves, but to find a solution that would help the state not to reduce the credit rating and that the service of external debt would not be at risk at the time of the temporary financing, not even at the time of the adopted budget, especially depending on whether someone or not would. Will someone interpret the law in one way or another? So, we don't mind that if you make a decision, it goes into a regular procedure, because there are different visions, but I'm afraid it's going to take a while, and that's why I asked the International Monetary Fund for a deadline by the end of the year. If it gets into political debates, you know that even the smallest thing in this country becomes not political, but political, I'm afraid we won't do a good thing for the country. If you appreciate that you will come up with a better solution during the regular debate ok. But I think this is the best possible solution we've been able to find, which is in the interest of everyone in BiH. So the guarantee of debt is a state, and debts are located on entities. And if I don't want to send the instruction, I won't, then we won't endanger the Federation, not the RS, not the country, but will send instructions to the Central Bank, which will end it as an institution. So, that's the point of the changes, and I think those from the, uh, agencies that were coming, after we passed that law, passed it on to Parliament, rated it positive, and we didn't further downgrade credit ratings. So we're doing everything we can to improve the country's reputation, and it's up to you parliamentarians to say, okay, you need a regular procedure, any better solution will cheer us up. Just don't make it any more complicated and we'll all end up paying the price. Here, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11298	I thank the Minister of Finance. I would just like to warn my fellow MPs that this phase of debate, therefore, has no right to replication. But here, I don't know, I wouldn't want to deny anyone, but to be as brief as possible. Here you go, Mr. Vrankić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11299	Thank you very much, Your Honor... 16
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11300	A colleague, Vrankić, a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11301	A colleague, Bećirović, a business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11302	I would ask really now not to open at this point in the line of lines, but to keep going as we've done so far. You know what it says in our Rules of Procedure and not to open one practice that has never even been opened within this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11303	I thank my colleague Bećirović. Mr. Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11304	Well, I accept, as I've always been a reasonable man, everything you agree on, if you need to give up the replica is no problem, but I have to react to the wrong allegations. Namely, my colleague Špirić, a respected colleague of mine and my chairman at that time when I was a minister, said it was someone's whim. It wasn't anyone's whim. We had no documents, no temporary funding, no 2012 budget, so as a law-abiding man, I had no elements to give a warrant to the Central Bank, and I will remind you that the Central Bank is an agent of the state and let's not exclude the state from the process that belongs to the state. Thank you very much. And it has not been reduced due to non-payment of external debt, because we have done so with the consent of the European Commission and no day has been delayed in financing external debt. Please keep that in mind, and we've been given a lower rating due to general unemployment and confusion in the country that we have, so here's what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11305	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11306	Gentlemen chairman. Here, by respecting what you said about the replicas, I still have to respond to, here is the attitude of the respected finance minister, Mr Špirić. In fact, this legal solution, unfortunately by the emergency procedure proposed, concerns only temporary financing. Since we adopted the fiscal framework for the next three years, I don't see the reason why we should even go with this legal solution, for the reason that if we have a fiscal oatmeal, give us the budget in time and we won't get into a situation at all to discuss this issue. 17 Therefore, I am afraid that one trend is transferring power from Parliament to the Council of Minsitarians, here we have also had about quotas, the Customs Tariff Act and so on, I think that trend should be stopped. Give the materials to the parliamentary procedure in time, and it will certainly be in time and adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11307	Minister of Finance, Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11308	Of course we're still discussing the procedure. I wouldn't want to, so you'll decide whether to accept emergency procedures or not. So the existing legal solution gave freedom to interpretation. Out of that freedom, not to say hir, this freedom of interpretation has led to something that is not good for BiH. We have questions from international financial institutions – what are you going to do to make this happen again? We say okay, old legal solutions remain. ...based on these old legal solutions you've brought the country to her that international financial institutions don't believe it's not going to happen. This is the way to get to the point where it's impossible for that mistake to happen again. On purpose, by accident, by double interpretation, it doesn't matter. If you appreciate that this is not the country's interest, Parliament if it appreciates it, okay, you say we won't. We won't do the emergency procedure. We won't do the regular procedure. So, the Council of Ministers has no subordination over Parliament. So we asked to help you, I think we've cleared up the solution and it's impossible to repeat it, and if someone wants to interpret it twice or to interpret it correctly, it doesn't matter. So we've avoided double interpretations. And the Constitutional Court prescribed how, when temporary funding was made, it made a decision. And that contains this change. So these are just clarifications and creating an opportunity not to repeat the situation that the change of government depends on the process of service of debt and different interpretation. At the very least, I'd like to say different interpretations. If Parliament thinks you don't need an emergency procedure, go to regular. If he doesn't think we need regulars, we don't need the law, okay? And then eventually we'll get a score, and we'll be wondering why we're getting that kind of score from BiH. So, I didn't mean to accuse anyone here, or say this or that. So there were different interpretations, from these different interpretations, that we had done something that was not needed by BiH, I think at that point. And here we are, trying to amend the law to make it right. So you're making the final decision. Here I am begging you, therefore, you, therefore, there is no co-ordination of the Council of Ministers. We were unanimous within the Council of Ministers and put this into parliamentary procedure. You can say you don't agree with that, it's a lot of Parliament's right. I can't affect that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11309	Okay. We're going back to the procedure debate. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11310	So here, even though the minister said most things, I really can't believe that there's anyone well-intentioned who thinks this needs to be skipped, postponed or left behind and that there's a chance that we can meet again in the situation where we found ourselves, and that's that external debt service is not done as 18 is planned. So to assume that the budget will certainly be adopted is a question that is truly hypothetical, perhaps not. And so, I think it's necessary to pass the law. And the second thing, is whether an emergency procedure is needed I would really ask, here's the minister practically opened the space that needs to be passed by the end of the year, but that can also be achieved by a shortened procedure, that means half the deadlines, and that we can overcome that problem. And another intervention on what counterpart Džaferović said. Never before has Parliament, since there is no institution of rebalancing, ever given consent to everything that has happened in the meantime since the day this House adopted its budget. So our control comes down to budgeting and budgeting control. In the meantime, the Council of Ministers has done so far, without any influence from us. We talked about it, but it demanded I don't know what kind of debates. So, this law does not derivate at all what is our right and obligation, it is to bring the budget, and to seduce financial discipline and to put the country in a position to be able to repay the external debt, I think it provides. And I think we should be less critical if we get one of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11311	Thank you. Dear colleague Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11312	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. I would say a few sentences on behalf of the club when it comes to the procedure itself, i.e. a request for urgency of that procedure. In fact, we welcome the expressed intensities of the Council of Ministers and the Resolute Ministry to enable the proposed law to simplify the service of external debt, i.e. the procedure of clarifying certain ambiguities. However, the respected minister himself said we have until the end of the year. So they're not exactly an adequate explanation, so for the emergency procedure. We've got plenty of time, we need enough time to make amendments. Whether by, therefore, an amendment, a normal amendment phase or a shortened amendment phase. Because, after all, we all know, the predecessors said, that we have adopted a budget for this year, and we know that in the budgets of both states and entities, service of external debt is what is priority. Therefore, the service of external debt in this year will certainly not come, so it will not be questionable. It's also not about a law that changes only one member, so on that side, it's about changing, changing three members. It is therefore necessary to enter into the measure of those members, because we are not all lawyers. We do not know whether those amendments are in accordance with or not with the Constitution and the existing laws, or whether those laws should also be passed by the Finance and Budget Commission, to see if they comply with the laws of that area. So we're against an emergency procedure. Thank you very much. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11313	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11314	Thank you. The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. So, we are discussing a request for an emergency procedure in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions. At first, I must say that Mr. Minister did not convince me of the need to discuss this by emergency procedure, and I believe that the arguments mentioned here do not say that it is absolutely necessary for this law to be considered by an urgent procedure. The issue of responsibility for the functioning of BiH institutions, so this also applies to the service of external debt, is not a question for the law on the financing of BiH institutions. It's a question that should be resolved by some other laws. There is a clear procedure for proposing the Budget of the BiH institutions and the day we all meet our part of the job, when the documents are done on time and in time delivered in the procedure, I think we will have no problem with either the public debt service or the functioning of BiH institutions at all. This law therefore does not make it easy to amend this law as stated in this request, i.e. an emergency procedure proposal. And I agree with my colleague, Belkić, that this is still about slightly more significant changes and that we should not go back and forth, so we should accept the urgent subject, but also that we should, and Mr. Minister said that we have until the end of the year, we should, therefore, have a more detailed debate on this and see if any of these changes are necessary as proposed or enough for all of us to start doing our job, so we should start proposing in time, so we should carry out our obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11315	Thank you. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11316	Given the number of arguments offered by the distinguished colleagues who spoke before me, I will say very briefly that I am in favour of the fact that instead of this procedure being proposed, therefore hastening, we are going to go to a shortened procedure that will allow us to discuss this legislative proposal thoroughly. After all, Mr. Finance has, in its interpretation of the proposed procedure, not cited as a reason for the time being, because we really have enough time, especially if we opt for a shortened procedure, but rather, I would say, the economics of not spending excessively on unnecessary debates. I think it's one of the most important functions of the MPs that if they need to and needlessly discuss some things in order to possibly come up with a better solution. So, once again, I suggest we decide to cut the procedure short. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11317	Replica, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11318	I thank the chairman. Well, my replica to some discussions, more suggestions to the minister. If you ministers are the only ones who try to get away from these blockades, my suggestion is that you don't, too. If there are messages here that someone for 10 years didn't want to solve it, and here they guarantee that everything was good, and they'll be fine again just now the minister wants to disrupt something, don't change it. So, if someone is, yesterday we came out of the chaos of temporary funding, here in a few months we're going to get into a new story and here some guarantees are being sent that it's going to be ideal and now the minister's suggestion has disrupted that idyll, so don't you even try too hard if others don't try. And since this country has repeatedly shown that party and some group interests are more important than the state, don't you now, because here everyone wants to keep some of their blockades and everyone wants to have a mechanism at a crucial moment to stay or blackmail and destroy, whatever you want, let's let it go the way it goes and be the decision it's going to be.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11319	Thank you. Finance Minister, in the end, Mr Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11320	Ladies and gentlemen. I assume you've concluded the debate and I'll try not to give it a chance, not create an opportunity for anyone to replicate. _________(?) We're not done... Okay. If parliamentarians think this is not an emergency, and not a single important meeting goes by without getting an inquiry – what will you do not to repeat it with BiH, so from the international financial institutions with which we have daily communication, it is an emergency call. We tried through the commission -- there's no way they'll get along. I have two pages of objections coming from the entity finance ministry. I have a feeling that I said that they have objections that today would be adopted, from the RS. I talked last night and said that these are good measures that help everyone. If you think there's no reason for urgency and we're getting an inquiry from international institutions by the end of the year and we say Parliament said it's not an emergency, I'm afraid we're sending a bad message. That was one of the reasons we needed to fill the solutions. They're not ideal. If in a shortened or any procedure you can find a better ok, we heal them, just don't let us get back into a situation where the way the government changes or anything that happens depends on the service of external debt. We'll get the country into much bigger trouble. So that was the reason for... We thought that the change of two members who regulate things was clear enough not to open more intense political debates. Strong political debates, mutual disputes and so on are opening up over everything in this country. That was one reason to offer 21 solutions per procedure take or leave knowing that everyone would try through amendments to come up with a perhaps worse solution than the existing law contains. But here, I won't argue, so you're deciding the procedure today. I said what I get a day as a query and that there are already now that we've got this law, I don't know if you have those remarks that were in writing,...had. Nevertheless, I am prepared to defend the view that it is an emergency procedure, but Parliament is making a definitive decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11322	Thank you. Let's do replicas. Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11323	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I have a proposal for an answer – when they ask you that question you say that in time you will prepare everything you need to adopt the Budget of the BiH institutions. So, to be adopted on time. And there's no need to give any broader and wider answers to the question of what you're going to do to fund public debt on time. We'll adopt the budget in time and it'll all work out.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11324	Take it easy, take it easy, there's, what you didn't want right now. Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11325	Well, you see, when I discussed it, I really discussed the procedure and talked about the reasons when it was committed to emergency procedure. In light of the proposed law, it states that it is 14.03. The fiscal council warned and so on. and so on. and the task force formed, the 14th of03 thing started. So why didn't we get the amendments and the amendments of the law three, four months ago, but was waiting to get into a situation where the International Monetary Fund is asking us what you're going to do. We could have done it before because a working group was formed, 14th of this year is an open story.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11326	Thank you. Drago Kalabić, second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11327	Well, now that the minister is here today, I'm teaching him a little bit of what he's going to say in that answer to strangers when they ask him, or who else. And of course I agree that you will tell them that you will prepare the budget in time but tell them that you have a Parliament to preserve Bog in which neither sv.. Petar doesn't even know if he'll accept your proposal to discuss it, let alone adopt it and tell them the real truth about this House, so that your answer is complete. Here, and I'll teach you a little 22 because many doubt that you don't know how to put that answer together, and here we are today to teach you how to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11328	I'm closing the debate. No more reports. We're going to the fourth item of the agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law on conflict of interest in BiH authorities – MPs: Milorad Živković, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović and Niko Lozančić (second reading) At the 31st session of the House, held on 05.07., the bill was adopted in the first reading. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission submitted the report on 17.07.2012 with three amendments that become an integral part of the Law if the Law is adopted. Ambassador Šefik Džaferović is, in accordance with Article 118(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with Article 118(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. poslovnik of Procedure of the dom, tabled an amendment to Amendment III of the Constitutional Legal Commission. Likewise, Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, in accordance with Article 118(2). Dom's Rules of Procedure, in the plenary phase, defends two amendments again. I would like to remind you that the Directorate for European Integration delivered its Opinion on 16.07.2012 I am opening a debate on the proposal for a law in the second reading. The first reported for the discussion, distinguished counterpart Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11330	Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't repeat what I said last time we talked about first reading. So all the reasons still stand especially, so when it comes to disfellowshipping close relatives. Sanctions, something has been fixed when it comes to advisers to these amendments, but there are still problems here and a new problem has arisen that excludes the obligation to comply with the law at lower levels with the law at the entity and level of the Brcko District, with the BiH Law. It is the constitutional obligation of the institutions, resulting from the BiH Constitution. This standard, which is now deleted, is actually a norm written practically in the Constitution, in its own way in the BiH Constitution. And that's why I've tabled an amendment asking for a return to that position. However, I propose that today Parliament reject this law, then sit down and seriously, with the Venice Commission and with the Group of States to combat corruption of the Council of Europe, discuss this topic and adopt a law that will meet the standards that BiH will meet, and the obligations required of it in the fight against corruption. This law does not guarantee that it will be so. I suggest that Dom turn him down today. That's it, thank you. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11331	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11332	Here, today we have, so to speak, a second reading and a debate on amendments. When it comes to Mr Džaferović's amendment to me, it is acceptable for me for the space of reason that we are very often witnesses, and we are able to hear here and in Parliament the views that it is not always necessary at BiH level to arrange certain things, especially those which are not clearly in the Constitution given in jurisdiction, but that it is necessary at the level of the entity, Brcko District, to harmonise things. These were mostly attitudes from the RS, so I'm surprised why he's giving up that approach. So, very often there's talk here -- we don't have to have state law, let's harmonize laws in entities. Nothing else. So, as far as I'm concerned, if I understand correctly, that the amendments and Miss Aleksandra Pandurević are repeated, as far as I'm concerned, it's acceptable to me, but as far as Amendment II is concerned, which speaks of average salaries and so forth. I don't know if it's a common legal practice, I'm not a professional, whether it's possible to put such a formulation into law or if it has to be put to the correct number, I'm not sure. So, I'm not sure about that. And if you allow a few sentences, comment on the Opinion of the Directorate for European Integration. So we're witnessing that we get along with the laws and so on. The opinion of the Directorate for European Integration, and if you look more closely, you will see that it is a single pattern, so one pattern. And in 99% of the cases, there is a formulation that the matter in question, which is determined in the draft law, is not prescribed by legally binding EU acts, and that is that, and that it is not possible to give an assessment of compliance with European legislation. And on the other hand, in this particular case, when we discussed here, each other was a word to us, in accordance with European standards, in accordance with European practice and so on. It may not be in European legislation that this is precise, but then the Directorate might have had to do some kind of analysis of these practices in Europe what is it that we have in some way... Or let's say, when you look at this opinion and think about funding political parties, you'll see that they're exactly the same, same text. And here's a formulation, I don't know if I'm right, please listen. Proposal for a law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, in the text of the Bill's proposal, which includes new legal solutions, puts the law out of effect. What law, what, how? You'll see the same thing in the Law on the financing of political parties. So I suggest the leadership of the Directorate for European Integrations to pay attention when these opinions are given and that Parliament is really benefiting from this. I'm afraid we'll devalue the good intentions and good practice we've opened. Thank you very much. So I can't and these amendments don't change the essence of the law and I'm not going to support it, of course.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11333	Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11334	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You've been a little bit, you've also talked about amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties, and I'll tell you that later when that point is separated, about the average salaries you've mentioned. As far as we from the RS are concerned, yes, that's true. And in this respect we remain and, now, according to the Brussels agreement, a co-ordination body will also be formed which will deal with this and whose primary task will be this coordination of legal regulations. And it is not disputed, we are prepared here and here to support the conclusion that they will say – calls on the National Assembly of the RS, entity parliaments to harmonize their regulations, but we cannot support that the law at the level of BiH orders the National Assembly of the RS to do its job under its jurisdiction. So that's unacceptable for us. And it is unacceptable for this Parliament to be put in a stand-off over the National Assembly of the RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11335	Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11336	I hate to break it to you, but let me tell you something. So when it comes to supermation and so on. You will not allow this country to be a hostage of thinking like yours. So, the RS was created by an agreement in Dayton and is part of this country, this is what I'm telling you seriously, and take care when you talk about the position of the BiH and RS state. She's clearly set up by Dayton, clearly by Dayton. And there's no supermation, there's no unsupervisedness, and there's an exact constitutional order of this country. And this country cannot be a hostage to such thoughts as yours, such as yours.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11337	Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, RS is a signator of the Dayton Peace Agreement and the annex of the Dayton Peace Agreement. That's number one. Number two, Mr. Belkić, I fully agree that, that there are entity competences and there are powers of the state. And we respect both the BiH Constitution and the entity constitution, and the Federation Constitution, and the RS Constitution, and we ask you to do the same. It is not a problem here whether we are thinking one way or another, but it is a problem that you cannot accept the reality that there are competences that are entity competences, not BiH's jurisdiction, that you have been used to in the past 15 years with the help of the international community to take something away, so the international community has finally seen that this is going nowhere but BiH's collapse, so now they have said -- let's respect for the constitutional order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11339	Comrade Beriz Belkić, you have the right to the replica. Here you go. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11340	I didn't speak in the plural, I spoke directly to you, so your opinion and your way of replicating and talking. Of course, if you think that's how you're going to be some tribunal, some, I don't know what else when it comes to RS, it's your right. You say hijacker. Which one's he taking from? Don't let me tell you now who took what in this country, I'm telling you, Mrs. Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11341	Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11342	Please, I have a feeling that on a question that has never been disputed so far, further relations have been tightened. In 2002, when imposed by a high representative, and in the same text later adopted by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, he said entities and Brcko District would pass such laws within 60 days and those laws must comply with this law. That's the principle, then. This is jurisdiction, if we want to be, therefore, clear to the end, open, competent and BiH institutions from their domain, and the jurisdiction of entities and Brcko District from their domains, but these laws must be in line with principles, or what is promoting this Law, and it is clearly stated then, it is also said all the time. Ten years after that, eleven years later, there's someone trying to challenge that thing. Don't let people do that, make a problem where there wasn't a problem. There is, the practice of the Constitutional Court is therefore absolutely clear, there is a constitutional norm that says the laws of the entity and the Brcko District must comply with the state laws. That when it is said they must comply with the BiH Constitution, above all, it means they must comply with the state law. Don't let us, uh, open up these topics and sharpen them. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11343	Dear colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, discussion. Mr. Beriz, you don't have any more.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11344	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11345	Okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11346	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all. My djed Ilija would say – whatever you say prays for us, it's worse for us. And so this Law of Conflict of Interest, so whatever is wider and bigger, it's more vague. I think the law should be brief, clear and unequivocal, which he has in his essence little repairs. But I'm now asking a question here, that we now have a law on increasing the salaries of civil servants, I raise my hands to, to raise wages, and the Auto-kuća House "Lijanović" is now having more traffic because the standard of citizens has grown and bought vehicles. Am I in a conflict of interest then? The question arises whether I am, and this Law does not define it, this Law can be interpreted, someone can say – yes, he is in conflict 26 of interest, he raised his hand, he is an advocate, and he has, and apparently he has proof, he has increased sales or something. For this reason, I say that if we don't settle wider things, what this country lacks is the central register, so land books of property regulation, stock on moving things, the central register of economic operators and final accounts, and that the judiciary is keeping an orderly eye on the property, the property, we all own, so we should be lifting property and the state to introduce taxes on it, and that most of the taxes are exactly that property, and not from VAT, I don't know anything, excise, because we practically have the entire property of BiH which is not taxed and which is being dissipated, is being wasteful. And we're all witnesses, and I'm a witness, you buy a field somewhere, come on from someone 1/100 because, I would, in 10 years you can't translate it, all if you wanted to have property and have something... So the key is not in this law the key is in other institutions. I think this law, therefore, needs to be simplified, and I agree that freedom should be given, because if the property we now have is not being used just because we are a poor society. And that's why it is, then we transfer things to a conflict of interest and a very bad impression in public, we all express public functions, instead of being transparent, clear, if someone's earned money, right in that way and in that way, if he hasn't earned it, then there's an institution that's going to say it, that we're all proud of having property and that we pay taxes on that property. If I drive a car, I don't know, out of three thousand cc's, we know that... a thousand to two thousand cc's of car is a need, and all over why it's the same, why we don't have excise duties on three thousand cc's. Well, that's one thing, then, is that out of that money and out of that luxury and that we're all fighting to make money and to benefit from that profit and the state. Here, I just wanted to get back to you that, I think we should simplify this, but here I agree that in this, on this point, we need to sort out, so other things to be effective with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11347	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11348	I thank the chairman. Although I thought we said everything about this and when it comes to this article 19, I think that he, of course, had no intention of it being a central issue, I still don't think it was, but with a clear view that jurisdiction would, of course, defend itself, it's a fact and there will be no choice of means to obtain the powers of defense. But when it comes to this law I think it's here, trying to cloud one fact and something that I'm not going to say insultingly, when I saw today this paper coming from a gentleman, is that right, Sorensena? I wish I'd seen Mr. Sorensen yesterday at the Ministry of Finance's interview with the D.A. and the D.A.'s office. For Mr. Sorensen, it's not a problem that people of 280 million have been incarcerated by his judiciary and his prosecution, that's not the problem, that's where he doesn't interfere. But it's very important that he sits there tonight writing a paper on whether some poor counselor is near some water management board. And that's the key question in this country. He has time to do that. If Mr Sorensen thinks that this current law has resolved the issue of corruption and crime organised in BiH, I am against and that a single point is changing and one point is changing to change. On the contrary, this is to this extent a hypocritical law and the hypocritical behaviour of foreign representatives here, who, in this way, want the political elected officials in BiH to hold within them a distinct 27 specific environment subject to various manipulations and various blackmails, and what has already been exposed before. Why in Western Europe, as a cradle of democracy, it has not been done in any country to take the elected official's mandate the way it is taken here. No, that's not a problem, don't come here so that the chosen official will be independent and think for himself, because we have other intentions with them and give the mechanisms to do it. Maintaining such a model in the story that the current law has resolved the issue of corruption and organised crime in BiH is merely a manipulation of this country and proof that it does not look like a state, and evidence that people here are ready to submit to third-rate international officials at the cost of destroying any reputation of this country, if it has any reputation. And I don't think this makes any sense, for a year now, and I've been looking forward to it, listening to OHR statements and the European Commission here has been a dozen very difficult questions, and in all ten of them they haven't interfered. And all ten said that it wasn't their job, they wouldn't interfere, even though it was even in certain moments a unanimous invitation to interfere. But here they found, in my opinion, on this issue in the country we saw last night, in the country where we saw that, that a brewery that sells beer for cash owes the state so many millions of marks, and that's not the problem, no, that's not the problem. Is there any conflict of morality at least, if there's no conflict of interest or anything. And now we have a situation here that we need, I'm not saying this isn't an important law and where we're lucky this is the only problem in this country and we're dealing with Parliament's thematic session to bring it to the office. But a country where corruption, crime, in which all laws either imposed or pressured by these offices were brought, have not produced any results and it is time to say so. I'm not saying that these people should be excluded from any coordination and good services, but it's time to say that this project didn't work. It's time to share someone's responsibility with us because it didn't work out and let us, I guess, breathe a little bit and say that maybe we have different opinions and maybe this climate has its own tradition in making some laws and seeing some things. It's from blind submissions that we should move a little bit on our heads, because it can't be worse, it can't be worse than what they've done to us. So we're at the bottom and they're finding out, here's even if I wanted to change my mind about the situation I couldn't because every day you hear that we're the worst, that we're blackest, that we're without perspective, that we're none. And he says again, no, you're still going to follow our recipe, because we think we should do this. But when it comes to responsibilities, there are hundreds of NGOs who are hoarding citizens on these independent elected officials who absolutely decide for themselves. That's why I don't think it was correct when they didn't already mix around the budget, about the government, about all sorts of other difficult issues, and especially when they didn't interfere with the dramatic yesterday, I think it's a dramatic situation, I didn't believe that it existed, what was said last night in the news shows. Whoever doesn't want to get involved in this, so don't get involved in this, however it turns out, I don't think this is going to be extra important for the situation in BiH. This may be under the current, perhaps 74th place of significant question, and now all kinds of possible offices are involved in this. One of the rigid laws, one of the laws that we've come close to changing it and fixing it, surely in the interest of BiH, we've come, I don't know how, to the blockade that we can't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11349	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, second replica. Here you go. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11350	Mr. Kalabić, I really respect your position that in all society this matter should be arranged in a principled way and I agree that it is not arranged the way it should be done. But believe me, there will be more and more examples of those than last night, I haven't seen those shows, I just saw on TV that there have been meetings with the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, exactly for indirect taxation and with the finance minister, if you think about it, if you mean it, there will be more and more cases like this unless we get things right here. And the essence of this law and all these, I would say, is that the effort to make it as the best possible solution is actually what we need to be an example and from here it should go. If it comes out of here like, an example of what it shouldn't be, then I'm afraid this news will be a lot more than it was last night. That's one thing, then. The second thing, so how can it be justified to exclude close relatives, children, mates, parents from this Law? How is it possible to see tomorrow that a child, or a spouse, or parent of one of the elected officials may be a responsible person or head of administration in a public enterprise. This law rules it out, that's what I'm talking about, and come on, it's in the interest of us ourselves, let's operate on these things so we can do the things we're responsible for and what we should do in this country. That's it, thank you. I mean, I only used your discussion as a reason to say this more than a replica of you. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11351	Drago Kalabić, replica second. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11352	Well, you see, Mr. Džaferović, I didn't say that this law was abolished, so I'm allowing all the provisions to be discussed, but you've come out of context and you haven't commented on the fact that you, who took a huge number of votes in your constituency, today a group of people called there, can say – you're no longer an MP. Give me an example of where he has it. Here, with respect for your findings that need to be discussed, I am not sure whether I understand the thing best, or whether the best solution is one or the other, whether or not you need to, about it being discussed. But we need to talk, and we need to fix it, and say that the existing law is not good, I was talking about it. But here I have a feeling it's a lot of pressure not to touch anything. Now, that's what pisses me off, because you see, Mr. Džaferović, how, how did all those countries get in trouble if they solved their relatives and everything else. So all of Italy's relatives had problems. Well, Berluskoni was the father of all existing and related and friends and all, his was both state and money and television and they came where they came from. Now we have problems, we have problems like this now because of them, and in all other countries there. It's a fact, they had this law, so how they got into these problems. They came because they're lying to us and because they're hypocritical and they want us to be hypocritical too. Because, Mr. Džaferović, the company "Kekerović" from Laktas has hidden a huge tax and you can't bear any responsibility because people don't do their job there. And there's no way we can solve this thing here, because they have enough law to implement it and there's no god who can fix anything here if the existing law doesn't... but the point is that people won't, they're implementing existing laws by taking out that we need to do something here. We no longer need to do anything to charge the Sarajevo brewery taxes, nothing, nothing. There is no way, we can strip ourselves naked in front of this House, and we won't change anything. People need to pay taxes, someone 29 protects them now, and that someone abuses a violent position alongside this rigid conflict of interest law, he made these people 10 million not to pay taxes. That's the problem, not implementing the mass of existing laws, and we're acting hypocritically and we say, you know, give me another bill, and then it'll start. It won't start, it's our starting here, and we're hypocritical, and then I'm not talking about those we're giving cause not to enforce existing laws. The damage we talked about last night, 280 million, is due to the non-implementation of existing laws. We were visiting Canada, chairing, when the President of Parliament said to one of our questions, you know, says the laws are brutally implemented here, brutally said they are implemented, so it bothers some. But I don't mind, the law can't be brutally implemented, maybe it's a clumsy expression, but a man said, so there's no law enforcement agreement. We brought them all, we have this situation, and then we have this letter this morning that's important. Of course it's important to be related, but I don't want any of these questions to be skipped, and we're going to come to a relative and we're going to find out here and tell if it's okay for someone my closest relative to him to be, if he isn't, it's not a problem. But I'm back, let's get in line from those most dangerous ones, I don't think it's right for anyone to take a mandate except for the procedure prescribed in all the countries of the world, just special to us as if we're all here under some special regime.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11353	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11354	The Honorable Chairman. Well, the replica to this is the whole exposure, so the conflict of interest and the question here was also this letter, which Mr., the esteemed colleague Kalabić said, which has arrived, whether any adviser would be involved in all of this. Well, we're gentlemen, just to remind you, very quickly we've come from comrades and friends in a few years' time, evolved ladies and gentlemen, and now we've come, so you're all witnesses in all the institutions, that here you refer to all the languages, hello aunt, how your aunt, where your daddy, we want coffee, amija you were at work yesterday. The diplomacy filled with conflict of interest, all my families hired, so I spoke in the last term ten times. The aunt's advisor in one embassy, the son of an attaché in another country, an amajdzic in the third one there, and no one says it's a conflict of interest, and all of their family members are fostered. It's the greatest conflict, the abuse of all possible laws, nepotism, whatever you want to call it. And nobody talks about it and it doesn't matter. Every institution we've established is either forced by someone or someone else suffers from this disease. Sometimes I'm ashamed to say that in six years, I didn't hire anyone, nor could I. And here people are boasting in mass in the halls that he brought in someone yesterday, that he's planning on someone, and we can't stop this awakening of the administration and reduce at least those costs. I've been asking these questions, and let people cut this out, with these bringing workers to different places, unproductive that they're just spending money. Dear counterpart Kalabić mentioned one thing earlier and it is crucial, ma sv.. Petar, my colleague, you humiliated him. He's doing more serious things, so he can resurrect us all, like sv. Peter. Petar. Here is every accident and every saint who, if he saw what we're doing and what we're dealing with, I'm dealing with a letter from Sorensen, it's an honor to him, so much more letters and here by imposing, let's take over once and drive us out, bring all your six-rate, hundred-rate representatives to sit down for me. But they're not going to help this country, they're going to help... in this, too, which is what my distinguished colleague Kalabić mentioned to Berluskoni, here's the man running for 30 presidents again, for the prime minister I don't know what he's for, but I see there he's running for office. And while he's alive, he's going to run for something and he's not in any conflict, and I'm in conflict if I mention an international organization what they're doing here anymore. You intend to send us more correspondence and write, come as people sit down and say, "You don't understand this and don't do this or do this, you don't have to do this." And now it's important whether any counselors there will be involved and whether they are in conflict of interest. Let's stop this passing of laws and they'll never answer to anyone, however we adopt.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11355	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11356	I wanted to tell Mr. Džaferović that if this work was a group for a year, someone told me that almost a year had passed, and if this work and consensus that had to be achieved deserved to be defended today only by SNSD MPs, then it doesn't make sense. I also want to say that the international community has passed a few laws that make our heads hurt today and that are problematic on all grounds. We all hit our heads with the Public Procurement Act, and that was the irreplaceable role of the international community, 5 million were spent buying purses and worshiping a variety of people to pass such a radical law. We received the Law of Conflict of Interest, which is more rigid than in one country and the highlight of everything I thought was BiH at this stage in which it is now, that it ended with writing letters, especially letters which, according to the recommendation of certain political parties, are written the night before the House session. I thought we were done with that. So write a letter saying someone needs to comply with international standards and European standards is hypocritical. Because if we're going to rewrite the law from Italy, here I think, now we're all going to sign it in advance. We have passed a law that is stricter than any country. So, this Berluskoni, who we all mention, didn't mind being a media tycoon and being Prime Minister at the same time, but it doesn't have to be an example. He says the problem is that it's corruption. No law solves the issue of corruption, but mechanisms that will prevent it. BiH has solved everything, and corruption 91st place of 3.2th coefficient. So, no, not this one, not a single law, but a good will to be self-respecting to ourselves. Why would my entire family be punished for being an MP, at least talking about these further, or worse, counselor. Imagine the counselor who happened to be, that half a year, a six-month counselor and then he goes to the street for a year, he doesn't, he has to look for a new job, because he can't be employed in institutions for a year. So what's hypocrisy and who's talking about honesty is telling me how it's right and fair. Here this House needs to adopt principles, principles of what we really want from this law. I don't want to be anywhere in my voice or in my decision to do something that's worse when it comes to corruption, but I know what this one, this way, does not solve the issue of corruption. And keep the law as it is, the state of corruption in BiH will not change. It will continue to keep its place standard around the hundredth on the corruption scale. 31 So, we are not fair, most of those who dispute the work of the Interresor Working Group today are people who want to make political things, a political performance that will score some points, here are the elections that have already begun to be seen even after today's performance in this House.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11357	Thank you. Dear colleague Zijad Jagodić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11358	Thank you. I would like to point out my opinion for the second, third time, because we have witnessed that in the last three, four sessions of Parliament we are discussing and discussing the Law on Conflict of Interest, and in fact we are always getting, less, almost the same proposal, the same amendment in the last days, with amendments from counterpart Pandurević. And I would really like to point out something that its amendments, in my opinion, are nothing special, or are not anywhere in the countries of the environment. I'd like us to get closer, to be identical, to be close to our neighbors, to mate around here somewhere, to look for solutions, not in a way that we have three, five, eight average salaries, which I don't know who can guess anymore. The second thing, the Law on the conflict of interest of BiH is identical only to Kosovo. For the past 15 days, I have analyzed the rules in this area for a month and I see that no country in the region has, except Kosovo. Kosovo, not to say, is 99% the same with us. But I really believe that we can and this House needs to find solutions. These discussions and this debate certainly need to win one good result. And I certainly wouldn't say that we don't have any different opinions in the U.S.A., but my colleague Majkić came out, and I may not be able to continue this comment, but I just want to point out one thing, that we are certainly seeking one, one normal law that will prevent conflict of interest. Earlier, a colleague, Jovičić, also said that corruption, bribery, nepotism, is in all institutions. However, I would like to repeat once again, in the past five, six years, because I am certainly one of the Members with the smallest political standing, but I would like to point out that this Parliament and this country should consider one situation, if I have spent six years doing business on jobs that I consider to be professional and to be fit for me, I have invested my resources in securities. By coming to Parliament, not knowing if I'd pass, I won't, in three days I had to look for all my capital to pass on to, because I can't pass on to my daughter, not to my wife, not to my brother, my father, my mother. And I just want to say one thing, to think first of all, as counterpart Džaferović said, we need to find a solution here. If we want only teachers and doctors in this House, I certainly think this is my way, and I will never accept it. I think we need to involve the economy, but that we need to let the people with the capital go, define the need for conflict of interest, let go of space. They have some amendments that have been said in 30 days and so on, but I think it's definitely me with what Mr. Niko Lozančić suggested in his amendments, that up to 1% I can own a company, that's 20 KM please nice, that's also unacceptable to me. However, in all of this I believe that we must make this law identical to the countries of the region, or what one of the MPs said, approximately, here we say, as Switzerland, as Germany, let's let's do that. However, from the European Commission we have just received a memo, I agree with conflict of interest, close relatives, I don't know, here's a lot of things, here's a close relative, then advisors, let's all get all the details that 32 introduce into the new law, into new amendments to this law, and I think that's when he should find his place. And certainly to open up space and not say to prevent possible manipulation through this law. Also, look, I as an MP of any function to hire my child we have problems. He says, no, it's a state ambassador, don't get away... definitely. He remains to start a private company, he says – he can't start a private company. So who should I ask? I ask you to think about these things and try to find a solution that will be beyond these some proposals that may not fit into the debates of individuals, but I think it's a good idea to debate this and try to adapt this law to the environment. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11359	Thank you. Replications. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. (?) [[no microphone turned on]] You no longer have the right to a replica, you have the right to a discussion, you have two replicas. Slavko Jovičić, second replica. You've replicated Mr. Berizu twice.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I respect my esteemed colleague Jagodić as well as all my colleagues, but at first it is not true that Kosovo is a state. Secondly, tomorrow, if Serbia recognises Kosovo as independent, BiH will never recognise Kosovo, at least while I sit here. So, secondly, what's even worse, compare BiH with Kosovo, then we're very clear on the rating. I don't know why you didn't compare Croatia with Kosovo, here, so the state of Croatia and the province of Kosovo and Metohija in the composition of Serbia can compare in that economic, I don't know which, parameters of any kind. But to compare us with Kosovo, now I understand where it is, and it was clear before where we are, because we are no role model for anything. They can't even be an example to me for all the worst monsters here, and don't Bog make any progress, although I wish they were in some kind of well-being. But since I'm following the situation they're in and what they're doing, then it's a good example for me to always look at them like they're not working, God Bog no one who does, and God forbid. Secondly, Jagodiću I were not an MP, I would not look at a single word and not read it, not touch me anywhere. But since I represent the people who chose me and some others will be people affected by this law and the obligations to comply with all this, so I just came forward so I wouldn't say that I'm defending the provisions of this law whatever it is, or with one or another proposed solution. But here's who has some property, so what you said earlier is true, a good example, you had to give up, but I haven't seen anyone in BiH, and nowhere in another country of the world, but there's not particularly, they take there, that someone says I'm going to function and everything I've had so far I'm giving to some humanitarian organization. I saw that, 33 deaf either don't let Bog before death do people, so some of them or some of them... who they were, but they're gone. So, in order for someone not to misread me, I am absolutely not touched by this law, nor am I interested in a single word at all, but here as an MP chosen by the people I have to deal with these things. But I've replicated this, and I ask you when you mention Kosovo in any context then as long as it's still so official, even though the letter can come from Sorensen, I don't know who, to call it an independent state, will never, at least, be recognized by us, and those who think they are.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11362	Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11363	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Well, there's no less important law in this country that causes more attention, which is what we are, which is obviously the representative of the international community. And I've been thinking about whether or not to answer it, because somebody can't let Bog think that I care a lot about this law to pass. Believe me, I don't care at all. I know if it'll pass. But I have a responsibility because I'm one of the 12 who's been considering for several months how to improve this law, this area, the Law on the financing of political parties, the Electoral Law. And when it comes to the solutions offered here, six members of the SNSD Parliamentary Assembly, HDZ, SDA, agreed on these solutions. And believe me, I don't like all these solutions, if anyone thinks I like all these solutions, then they're in a terrible error. But this is the result of some consensus. In addition to these 6 were 3 members of the Council of Ministers, ministers from the Council of Ministers and were 3 members of the Central Election Commission, an institution implementing this law and which can in any way speak competently about the resolution of this law. This is what I'm saying to break some illusions that this law is the fruit of some scheme of the three signatories and that we intend to deceive you and deceive the entire public to vote something that will not let Bog wrap this country in black. This law will do nothing spectacular. He's a little more humane, more logical than he's ever been. But as far as I'm concerned, there's a solution, this one's not accepted, it's valid. So that valid one is probably better for some of you than these solutions are here. So these solutions aren't finished. Under the current law, we have received a report from the Central Election Commission, so I invite you, if you are not at the time, to read it at least now, so you can see what the conflict of interest in BiH is all about. So there you will see that in a conflict of interest there is no conflict of interest because someone has misused a public function in the private interest. There is no conflict of interest. There's a conflict of interest, auntie, as he said, is somewhere in the board of directors of a municipal company and it's a conflict of interest. And there are such, and there are such, according to the selective application of the law, because such cases have arisen as a result within the party accounts and the reporting of colleagues who are next on the list to come to take the position of the one who is already in place. And that's reality. And we have that as a result of the application, and we all agree on that, the most rigid law. And you see miracles, we have the most rigid law, and all assessments of corruption growth are still alarming every day. This law is obviously the subject that, here I expected him to do without some big debate, because I don't think it's the most important law in this country. I would like to say, what several colleagues mentioned today, that we have already opened a debate today about these really alarming news that we heard last night, about the number of criminal charges, about the amount of tax evasion that no one is responsible for. No Niko is responsible for not processing. Similarly through the parliamentary issue today has been updated, I once 34 a little earlier, about the situation in the BiH Veterinary Office, we are not discussing it. And no one writes us letters about what we should do until we make this Office more functional, so our producers can have a chance to go to world markets. There is no interest in either international or domestic official, nor who writes or who suggests it. Or that these days Bosnia and Herzegovina is walking in trucks of a ton of different products that are not registered, which are not subject to tax, that these days different inspectors who need to enforce the law use the position of inspectors as private business ones to protect them, in order not to pursue them, as they say, while at the same time making an additional contract with competition to destroy their competition, and these need something... And no one in this country deals with the team either. And now the problem is whether, I don't know, either, the brother of one of the MPs is gonna be on the board of directors of a company, and we're all gonna do it. I do not want to convince you, although I am sincere, I am truly sorry that the Constitutional Commission has accepted two amendments concerning the reintroduction of counselors in this law. I'm one of the ones who had a counselor. And they would prefer the term of professional associates. So they don't have a rating counselor. But we underestimated it, we humiliated it. Who are you bringing as a counselor? Will you bring a doctor of science? Do you think he'll work for you for a thousand-mark salary and you'll forbid him to walk down the road? Are you out of your mind? This law is all that's got to do with it. And we have to bring in minor interns, those who have opportunities, for advisors, because only so, are the only ones who are unemployed and want to come to work in an institution. And that is the result of the application of this law. And the fact that some counselor, because he's a counselor, is going to abuse the position, come on, please. But here, if it's a contribution to making this law even more European, great, be it. It may also be necessary to introduce those who, all subsidists, be careful if the secretary of the visprene holder can have a greater impact on the holder of the function than the counselor. (?) Absolutely. Therefore, the question now is, should be introduced into conflict of interest. Driver, so I spent more time with the driver than I did with the kids at home. And now normally you have to man, if you're with a man 20 hours a day, and talk, and sit, and talk and so on. And if he's a little bit of an influence on you more than I've ever seen an advisor come into the office and usually attacked him because he didn't have time to do it. And that means, I won't report for that next law even though I'm here as one of the signatories for a simple reason, I don't have any of that or why defend these solutions unlike all of you... If you think that the situation exists well with this most rigid law and will ensure that in this country everything flourishes, this one collapses and you keep this existing state and, here we'll probably see something and it'll work. I personally don't think these solutions are ideal, but they are certainly better than the current solutions in both this and that of the next law. And here, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11365	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11366	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, I feel obliged to say a few sentences because I am one of the legislators of this law and because I have participated in the work of the Interresor Working Group since September, so here we are to this day. So, almost a year goes by the story of electoral legislation, first of all about the Law of Conflict of Interest and the financing of political parties, and very often, I have to say, I feel like someone who took something illegal, who did something, and the political parties that took part in everything are now the guilty who went wrong in this country. And let's get back to the very beginning, so why is this procedure in the first place? There were more reasons, and in particular, I am not going to talk about why it was done with the Election Law, but with these laws, because for two years we have received recommendations in the CEC report on what is not good in applying the law in the set of electoral legislation and what needs to be changed. When the Interresor Working Group was formed, I was not happy that it was done, and that it was so numerous, and what it cost, and what it requires is a different treatment than when the laws in the parliamentary procedure are directed by the Council of Ministers. However, there has now been a very interesting and strange fact that, when representatives of six of Parliament, representatives of political parties, almost all political parties, then three experts from the CEC, in whose jurisdiction these laws were implemented, and three ministers from the Council of Ministers, when they all reached agreement and when it was 24 April 2012 for this law, I read this to you from the Interresor Working Group's report, with 8 votes in favour, with no votes against and one vote abstention, members of the Interresor Working Group accepted the established draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on conflict of interest. The first thing that came up was that this law was not done in accordance with the Unique Rules for the Making of Regulations and did not pass on to the Interresor Working Group. Comments Transparens internally that it was interrupted, i.e. that the procedures and the law were not respected and said that it was unlawfully done, i.e. it did not comply with this. I was asked if there were three laws, is there a law of the Constitutional Commission that the Constitutional Commission gave? Is this the law of the Interresor Working Group and whether it is the law of Niko Lozančić, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic and Živković on conflict of interest? So, there's been total confusion in the public, whether targeted or why, around these laws. When it comes to this letter from Mr Sorensen, I would like to say that the work of the Interresor Working Group was accompanied by the delegation, or by four members of the Venice Commission, that the Interresor group in its work was managed by recommendations from the GRECO Committee, or whatever it is called, and that it was tried to be installed in these solutions in the best interest. This is also the result of support from members of the Interresor Working Group for the proposal. So it wasn't political will and desire to harm anyone or put anyone in a privileged position, but it was a desire to do a job that stood before us and which is in the power of this Parliament. On the other hand, if we're talking about whether this law is important, so we have many laws that are not important, but it belongs to a set of legislation called anti-corruption and to which international community, and however we appreciate it, we have them here, and they have obligations. And we have a duty to pass this law and put it in that set of anti-corruption legislation. But will he solve the problems? If everything fell apart in this society that, and this law has a very limited audience, the law refers to, it refers only to the interests of elected and appointed persons in the BiH authorities, so whatever they interpret it. Also in Article 19 he ordered that in this law, which is prescribed by the old law, so nothing has changed, he stands in 36 continuity where he is and we accepted him as such without discussion, the Interressor Working Group. Now that all this has been done, when everyone has agreed, different dilemmas are now being made, even those who have been for and proposed some solutions, their political parties are now against these solutions. I am now wondering who the political parties have appointed to this task force who is unable to defend or disrespect these views now and what are the reasons to talk about it? I think this job should be in a peaceful atmosphere, to the extent that it can be brought to an end, BiH needs this law no matter how much one or some consider it important more or less. I don't want to talk about myself, but I don't really care about being honest with you, but I felt that I had an obligation to be fully involved in the work of the Interresor Working Group and to do what was possible to achieve a consensus in a good atmosphere between all members of the Interresor Working Group, both those who played a political role and those who had an expert role and to reconcile everything we had to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11367	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11368	Thank you. I want a shorter replica, i.e. a suggestion right on the words of my colleague Uzunović. I have a feeling that this law is, and I believe that all MPs here, I believe that it is of great importance for the whole country, but what I am getting the impression is that in this Commission everything is agreed, first and foremost with international representatives, but now it is shown that it is not agreed, which means you haven't even worked out well. That's one thing. The other thing, in such an important economic, economic matter, I would ask all those who are working in the future, and here in the work that I'm sure I'm getting the impression that the teachers and the doctors were doing it, and I don't know... anyone else, I'd ask that economists, the people of the economy get involved, to see how, because that's exactly the most important part of the businessmen. And I would like to ask that we consult, associations of businessmen, chambers of commerce, economists, people of the profession, to find some solution that will satisfy all these things, and ultimately to the Commission who, here yesterday, provided us with this request, or an opinion on this proposal. And we need it to be enough orientation and a sign that we didn't use all the things we had to do to pass this procedure in Parliament. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11369	Replica response, colleague Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11370	Thank you very much. I have to mention something that I didn't say at the very beginning, the Interresor group had an Interresor Group chairman, it was Mr. Genjac of the SDA and his obligation, 37 of his duties in the Interresor Group to make proposals for this conflict of interest law. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11371	My kolegica Pandurević, I'd like to ask you something. I waited all the time for my colleagues to come here to report for the replication discussion. But it hasn't happened yet, and I'm afraid that after mine, or if I let you discuss it, you don't have a discussion or a replica anymore, there's no one from the SDS anymore, the question is who's gonna be able to replicate and answer, so I'll discuss it first and then you can say it. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11372	No problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11373	Thank you. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I have no intention of polluting through newspapers, media and other ways of making insubstantial statements about this law. I said my position loudly and last time and today I will say it here, since there are those who follow this House, they can convey what is said here, and the Internet has and the transmission can also be incredibly transmitted what we say to each other in the eyes. First of all, I would like to start with incorrect allegations, dear colleague Šefik Džaferović said that we have abolished close relatives, which is not true. Close relatives are reduced by, not to quote now, third degree, lateral line, etc., etc. What was clear to everyone here when an esteemed colleague, our colleague, who sat behind you was in conflict of interest because his father-in-law was in some waterhouse in the local community. And we all said it was inconsistencies. And you have also stated here that this man should not come down from his post because he is not in conflict of interest in the way in which this law should be arranged by both your colleague and members of the Interresor Working Group from your party have said that it is okay, that we should throw it out. And now you're saying that, both father and mother and all that you've listed here, that it's been thrown out that it's not true.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11374	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11375	So read the law and you'll see. It's not out. Another thing, Mr. Zijad Jagodić You are like an businessman or a man who is interested in this law you could give amendments to that opinion and install these principles into amendments. I didn't see any of your amendments or the principle I support that you spoke of. I don't believe your political party holds that because it doesn't say that in the recommendations of the High Representative that your party has made so far, and I unfortunately must say, and continue to work. This is for the first time, I was thinking that we, without pressure and without orders from the OHR, could agree on some law, and unfortunately, I was wrong because the SDA has withdrawn and is back on the notes that OHR writes. And again here, fellow Members of Parliament with whom he has arranged something, cheats in a way that says he will vote differently. And for the first time, we could, the ones who got an ungrateful assignment, make a law that would be our law. Here you're accusing us of making a law of our own interest, of professors, doctors, etc., which is not true. And it's not in the interest of the SNSD to pass this law either, to be honest, we don't care what the vote on this law is today. And we've done a lot of good here, and we've made a lot better than the law, and the number of amendments that have been submitted tells us that we've done good things. Where are these amendments, where are those reactions to what's been done and not good? Reactions to several amendments by the SDS, and it is a matter of advisors and it is a question of Article 19. That's the biggest problem. Well, even this OHR, called from the U.S.A., said advisors should be in the Law on Ministerial, Government and other appointments, not in the Law on Conflict of Interest. And why this law could not be passed on, as the Interresor Working Group proposed, and to adopt the conclusion that the Council of Ministers puts the advisers in this law by an urgent procedure. And that would solve the problem, too, but they would also solve the fact that people stay, after they stop being advisors to anyone and to the legislative and executive authorities, they remain out of work and on the street, and they are banned from applying for a year of competition that the State Agency is calling. So where's that? What is this violation of human rights, what are we talking about, of those who advocate that this remains a solution? All right, here's the solution. Article 19 of the SNSD amendment to transfer jurisdiction. The law passed in 2002 and here in this House, then I was not in that assembly, immediately confirmed. In 2004, me and Professor Kunić voted for amendments to that law, where this article in 19th did not change. In 2008, too, amendments and additions to this law, where this article has not changed in 19. Today we had a story here about the Law of Conflict of Interest only from one simple fact that it is a normative requirement, the law too many members treat and must be called law, not amendments and additions to the law. No one else has a reason. If the Interresor Working Group wanted to hold a session again, I would suggest that the law should come out of two parts, so it would be one and the other again, changes and additions to the law. And two parts are, you can't change Article 19 because you don't have enough votes in the Interresor Working Group to change that. And who would cause a problem? I wouldn't be a problem for anyone, and I'd be a member of 19. What I'm saying is, without need, there's a real talk about transferring jurisdiction to something that's factual and that you can't change. Of course, the Constitutional Commission with three RS and two Federations could have also Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci in the last session to solve the problem. Just solve the problem. So, the proposal from the RS would go through, because three votes are from the RS, two from the Federation, the only question is, could we put it out here, what is it about? If the Constitutional Commission said okay, we would now vote as it has been a hundred times voted by the RS, but it couldn't have been passed here. This time there were more MPs from the RS there, I'm surprised you didn't put on the agenda and Sejdiu-Sejdić-Finci, it might end. I am talking about that you must respect the real situation and that something or cannot be voted in this House, and obviously with the amendments adopted on the Constitutional Commission it cannot be voted here and the SNSD will not be proposed, nor any member of the SNSD of any conflict of interest law when this one falls here. We don't care about that. May those who consider themselves to have a congregation majority and may, with laws adopted like this, propose, suggest. So we'll see what a political situation is, but also the damage that such actions do to each of us individually, to the political party and to the entity. I would like to say that this is a weak and unfounded attempt by the SDS to tell the story of the transfer of SNSD's jurisdiction over the Law on Customs Tariffs in the pre-election campaign to RS citizens about the transfer of jurisdiction to the SNSD regarding the Law of Conflict of Interest. Gentlemen, the SNSD is much stronger than your pranks, much more unique than your congregation inscriptions with the 39 journalists you're drinking coffee with. Stop the pre-election campaign to lead on national interests, because it's a much more important thing than a law on conflict of interest. Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11376	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really don't know where you saw some SDS prank. I'm surprised, now I've seen that you think there's nothing controversial about that article 19. I thought you'd share our opinion by now, because as far as I know, I'm sorry that President Bosić is not here, and at the leader's meeting you and yours, last in Banja Luka, your party leader agreed that the member of the 19th was wrong and asked for his erasure. It was at a meeting in Banja Luka. And I don't want to go into the controversy with you anymore. I'm just gonna say I'm surprised you said that. Who with whom, where, how to drink coffee, I didn't know it was being followed, Mr. Živković. Everything I have to say publicly, I tell every reporter. I don't drink coffee here with the press because I don't have time. I occasionally drink in Lukavica with some journalists who are my friends and colleagues from a long time ago. It's about that. As far as Mr. Jagodić's findings are concerned, I don't really know what to think about this law. We don't even understand the SDA's position, whether you're standing or not behind this law. You just said he's too flexible, you're saying he's too strict again, he's not letting the businessmen, you can't have a company. That's not true, Mr. Jagodić, that you can't have a firm. Here, all these people, Mr. Lijanović, he has a company, works man, is not in conflict of interest. You can have a firm, but you can't take over that company from the budget by misusing your position. The whole story's in it. And you can't compare us to Switzerland, Germany, Croatia, Serbia. One of the Croatians where they arrest the prime minister when he commits abuse. Who was in charge of abuses ever and one of the officials? It's never anybody. Until we make a legal state, I also agree that it's discriminatory that someone has an enterprise that can't be some kind of official somewhere, that maybe you could help, but we can't do it for one man who maybe, or two, three, five, wouldn't use the mass of those who would abuse it. The point is, first of all, we have to make a legal state here, that our investigative institutions first, our judiciary has to start doing its job, that, as you mention Švajcarska, when their minister, there's some kind of abuse of, I don't know, 200 francs, so he resigns. Who resigned with us? So here we had, here's our minister who was in conflict of interest in the last meeting, they couldn't, the entire NATO force wouldn't drive them out of the Council of Ministers. And today again, and if we found a conflict of interest to a minister, whether it was someone on our side, we would stop and protect him, let's be honest, we would tell him that's political installation, that's what you would do. And that's why, not because of the honest ones, but because of those who would abuse, we're against the tycunization of politics. No one's stopping you from having your own company, working, doing business, but you have to give up a piece of budget cake. And I don't see what's going on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11377	Replica, chairman of the Milorad Živković House of Representatives. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11378	I didn't know you were SDS and that on behalf of the entire SDS you were talking to me, and I was criticizing SDS policy. And there's no question that you're having an impact on what they're going to do and how they're going to put what's in the paper, as well as on television, not to elaborate that topic. The second thing, if you had called on the SNSD that at this point in the Federation, when there are no clear things and when they need some support from the RS, that this Article of the 19th together, we would have given you a hand, but by saying that by working in the Interresor Working Group we have transferred jurisdiction and that we are traitors because of that, is an ordinary pre-election prank by the SDS. And let me tell you this. Thieves have in all parties and around the parties, but the only party in which thieves who, for the sake of national interest or for the sake of personal interest, have compromised the national interest is the SDS. And he did it by passing here and voting on the Customs Tariff Act. And that's a policy that's been going on since the beginning of the war, so let's say giving national interests to the personal interest. Not to mention the human resources you've re-introduced a policy that you've invented when you appoint a horse to an institution that has to be the director, when you say that a horse, then it has to be the horse's director. And you brought it back as politics here. The people recognise the policy of the SDS and know that such a policy that has started since the armed conflicts in BiH is now returning to the big door again and will not give you that support in these elections that you keep asking them to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11379	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11380	At the SDS Club's request, how much time do you need?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11381	Half an hour.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11382	Half an hour. [[PAUZA]] ...thank you. The SDS asked for a break. On behalf of the SDS Club, dear colleague Mladen Bosić. Here's your explanation for the break.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11384	The SDS has asked for a break for you, Mr. Živković, to calm down, to create conditions for the continuation of this session. And here, I have to ask if we have any conditions to continue the session? Such abuses, caused by nothing, raise questions as to whether you are able to lead this session. What you said here, with these insults, raises the question of your status as chairman of the House of Representatives. You mention horses from the SDS and let me remind you, what is allowed for the horse, is not 41 allowed by the chairman of the House of Representatives. You must watch your steps. If you have a problem with such attacks, then there's a way to solve it. Therefore, we have received information and assurance that this is not the SNSD's position, but your personal and I warn you once again, in such a way, not to the SDS, but to anyone in this House, you cannot perform.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11385	You're suggesting we form some kind of medical committee or you're asking us to take a break or something. What? If there's any way we can put it to the vote, I don't mind. However, I have the right to say in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the Constitution. It allows one who disagrees with that attitude to say otherwise. So, if you're in the mood to keep working, if you don't. Okay. So I suggest we start with the replicas. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11386	Thank you. I'd just like to say one word to my dear colleague, Aleksandra. That what I thought about her amendments that they were essentially a wish, that I understood so much, a desire to improve this law that is definitely in one crisis. However, I hope that he will not lose his will to further propose quality solutions that we will all support. Another thing, and to Mr. Chairman Živković, I would ask him not to in any way lose his will for the situation unless the law is passed today. First of all, because of the amendments he was involved in. And I'd like to make a little effort, because in the end, wherever we try, we end up sweeter at the end. That's what I recommend.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11387	I'm closing the debate. No one's answered again. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on the financing of political parties – MPs: Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović and Niko Lozančić (second reading) At the 31st session of the House, held 05.07. The bill was adopted in the first reading. The financial and budgetary committee in charge delivered its opinion on 17 July 2012. Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, in accordance with Article 118(2). The House Rules of Procedure, in the plenary phase, defends three amendments again. I would like to remind you that the European Integration Directorate also delivered Opinion 16/07. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11389	Thank you. Well, I do need to say a few words, although it's my pleasure that the Interresor Working Group made one bill better than it was. Just as the Law on conflict of interest, so does this Law, it is my pleasure, therefore, that, unfortunately in this House, one Interresor Working Group agrees, all together, and to make one better proposal than before. However, I say, although they had a proposal from the People's Party by working for a improvement, which had one different approach, or a proposal, where for the financing of political parties and for the payment of funding we proposed instead of 8 average salaries, a natural person that could 50 and instead of 15 average net wages is a legal person to be able to make 200. For what reason I want to point this out, I say because the state is an expensive toy. Especially if we want to create a democratic society that has a multi-party, which has elections, which Parliament has, legislative, executive, judicial power, such a toy costs dearly. And we need to be aware and clear, so that's what someone needs to finance. And that someone, I'm in favor of us all having the same opportunities when it comes to that part. In what way I see it, that is, if the political party that is on the political stage in Parliament has about 3 to 4 million budget revenue on an annual basis, we forbid someone. Why can't one natural person, if a man has money, just as much money and say, I go into politics, because politics is our common good. So we all need to have the same approach. So here is this Law, I say I support this Law because it's better than the previous, although it's not what I expect, for reasons we don't all, not all BiH citizens have the same opportunities. And what's most important is that transparency and motives, so the fact that we have insight is clear, and we don't have to limit these things at all. Because I'm saying, if someone in the budget can get $3-4 million for their policy, why can't someone pay that much, just that it's a transparent and clear motive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11390	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11391	I won't take the time, we've all talked less about both of these laws. I have one question, I actually need an explanation, with an apology in advance to Mr. Tomić if I don't see well and I don't understand well. The Commission’s report, on page 2, below 1 shows that the Commission has found that it is in accordance with Article 109 and Article 109, etc. Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević made three amendments in a timely manner. I can't see what happened to those three amendments. Are they adopted?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11392	Thank you. Here, chairman of the Commission, colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go. 43
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11393	Thank you, Mr. President. We had the Commission and I instead of Mr. Kabil, who was president and was prevented for justifiable reasons, I chaired. Of the 7 present Members of the Commission, 5 Members of the Commission have declared themselves to this Act and 2 have been against it. We also discussed all three amendments, Ms. Aleksandra Pandurević, and neither of these amendments was accepted by the Commission. So, there's a bill of law left in the original text that you had.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11394	Thank you. My colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11395	Here, just a few sentences. I wanted to go through the replica, but here through the discussion, Mr. Lijanović, that the state is not a toy and I don't think that terminology should be used in the BiH State Parliament. And secondly, just once again, that we have voted against the principles of this Law in the Club of the SDA because we have been disputed by the overwhelming members of 6 and 7 who speak of increasing the limit of voluntary contributions that natural and legal persons may donate to the political party and that, as a member of the Commission, I have supported Mrs Pandurević's amendments, for the reason that the donation is reduced to some reasonable measure and in some way, whether, in accordance with this amendment... it is consistent with our thinking, and we believe that increasing these funds, in the way it is planned through this Law, can lead to certain abuses of political parties. I don't want to talk about it anymore at this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11396	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners and asylum (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers of Law delivered the proposal in parliamentary procedure 26.06. The Constitutional Legislative Commission submitted its Opinion on the constitutional basis of the Bill's proposal on 17 July. Opinion of the competent Joint Committee on Human Rights, rights of the child, youth, immigration, asylum and ethics, Opinion on the principles of the bill you received, delivered and received. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11398	Short. I really want to and honestly say that the legislators of this law have done the job in such a way that this really is an example, in my opinion, of how the legislative proposal should come into this Parliament. See the annexes, see the opinions, see the tables. And this is really an example that needs to be done. Here, I, as the leader of the opposition, am alone with myself here, but here, I commend the promoter and, of course, I will support him in his first reading.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11399	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the seventh point, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers of Law delivered the proposal in parliamentary procedure 11/07. The relevant Constitutional Commission Opinion on constitutional basis and the principles of the draft law delivered on 17 July. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the eighth point. Ad. 8. The Commission's report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the BiH Ombudsman's work report for the period 01.01/11. - 31.12.2011
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11404	Here, Mr. Chairman, I have not noticed that something special has been changed here. So I don't know if they have all the memos that came about this point. What I have I'll read. So the Co-ordination Union of Ukrainian Associations and Organisations from Banja Luka, on the hands of the chairman of the Commission and the Joint Commission, and I will shorten, says regarding the Decision – The Co-ordination Union of Ukrainian Associations... in BiH numbered 7 organized, out of 10 organised associations in the RS, has submitted to the Joint Commission for Human Rights, Youth and Immigration, Asylum and Ethics of the Parliamentary Assembly a harmonised proposal for candidates before the Ukrainian National Minority of Mr Andrija Svatok as a member of the Council of National Minorities. The proposal for a Joint Commission Decision appointing members of the National Minority Council shows that our proposal is not respected. Please provide us with clarifications and reasons for such a decision. It's a very large population of the Ukrainian national minority. The second is also the Alliance of National Minorities of the RS, a roof organisation – 34 associations and 12 laws of recognised national minorities, and it is also against, a little longer letter, are opposed to the factors of concessions, trying to find these two – we demand that the decision and recommendations of the Alliance of National Minorities be maximumly respected, and under 2 we oppose the declaration and introduction of new international minorities beyond those appointed by the Law on the Protection of Members of National Minorities of BiH. This means that this roof association is not satisfied, or protesting, not knowing who has all these memos, and I think that, I would like explanations, what has changed since the last time and how it happened and if these in these letters are not respected, so that we can decide whether it's possible to get out of this in a dignified way and see what the solution is. I have a feeling there are people on the lsitas that no one has suggested. And we're going to have a problem choosing them, and we have an association that's against the choices of those. Then I don't know, here's if there's a possibility I'd like to get an explanation of what this is about. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11405	Thank you. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11406	The Honorable Chairman. I'm sorry, to borrow only from my colleague Kalabić, because I've heard this for the first time and seen it. We didn't have this on the Commission or this one, or I'd call this a complaint, or I don't know, a recommendation or dissatisfaction of this association, and I heard carefully what counterpart Kalabić read, so now I'm not going to quote this again and again. Here, I'll just say it's the first time I've seen it. And I did say it on the Commission, and now I'm going to repeat, as far as the list itself is concerned, I know two people from that list. I know Mr. Finci, and if the Jewish Association ran him, I don't mind, I don't care. But as far as I know, I won't guess, but one 50-100 organization, he's a member of the ambassadors, so from the Director of the State's Employment Directorate here, I don't know what it's called. Well, here's what I see on this list. And I don't know where he isn't anymore. What I have to say here publicly, and I voted against, I was actually abstentioned with the selection of these candidates, I don't know anyone, but it's quite clear that three people under the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH can form an association. And it's wanted on the Commission by a few colleagues, and of course I've asked and joined, I can't be the people investigating committee to see who's in '91. for years, nationally declared it either in 2000 or, I don't know, 2008 when it was local elections. But obviously, and I was just on the Commission, I'm going to say it again today, I don't doubt anyone there. I'm giving these people support, but don't let the situation happen to us like it did in the community center. Chief Bošnjak, President of the Muslim Parliament and Secretary of Bosanac and Herzegovina. Well, people, it's clear to everyone that this is about a national plea because it's clear that when you plead as a national minority, you get 2 votes or 12 for an election function. So I'm not an investigative authority to say and to doubt anyone to deal with fraud. I don't know these people on the list, but what I do know is that they've been waiting for me for three days, and I didn't want to answer because I turn off my cell phones, and I don't want to go down to the pub, so they can find me there, too, to lobby because it's 600 marks a month. These are the two pensions averaged in BiH. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's time to discuss, someone's watching. I respect my colleague Džaferović and I will always listen, but I won't be long, believe me. So people meet three times a year and receive 600 marks. And of course we did, I'll tell the MPs from the RS they voted against such and returned it to the Administrative Commission, not to tell the people on the list, but whether it's possible to pay them for this. But I'm willing to pay them travel expenses, pay their daily fees when they come to some session. And I really don't see the reasons, it's the same as in many municipalities where they dropped 1,500 marks, so it's important to get on the list there as a national minority because he knows he'll be elected. That's what I thought. 47 I repeat once again, that no one should by chance honor me tomorrow as I am against, God Bog, for the rest of you, for the sake of me. They are equal citizens of this country as I, who belong to a certain nationality, not to a certain but to a sprawl of nationality. So I'm against this kind of way that the three people who started the association represent themselves, somewhere in the association, and don't respect these majority ones. That's why it was rational, and that's why we asked, if possible, for a list of all of their members to be delivered to us. I never insult anyone, God Bog, but it looks like these NGOs that are putting a terrible pressure on you. Three team up, open the Internet, see the finance guy, not to mention a single country, don't give me Bog, so he calls me Sorensen tomorrow, and they represent someone. And they don't have any members, they just got caught up in there, but those banners or I don't know about anything. So I saw here yesterday an extraordinary situation, a meeting on corruption, I don't know... corruption but I wasn't there, I was in a committee session and for the first time a meeting, which would say in a closed space, under the open sky. I can't sit in any of the halls, 200 or 300 of them came. 5-6 ambassadors came, a member of the presidency came, I respect everything, because some association remembered and joined others, so that they could take the money from these strangers and then they'd say, here's Parliament passed 4% of the law, 6% I don't know from who, criticise me for not doing, but people don't bother with what I'm doing. That's why I suggested, and now I suggest, I don't know these people from the list of anyone except these two, the distinguished Master of Jusić, congratulations to the man, representing the Roma population, giving support, seeing a man fighting for rights and not for this 600 marks. But the other ones who ran, with these 17, as far as the association is concerned, we have 3 more in the procedure to be admitted, 66 are members of a national minority and they want an association as per the '91 list. A year. And by the list, I don't know what year my late father and the deceased mother were alive, they're gone, I don't know who's there anymore, but they're not on the list of members, they're just the three who registered that organization and association. And then he says, eh Mr. Jovičić is a member of the committee downstairs, look he didn't support us, and for the first time these two letters, now that he's read by a respected colleague, I see. He said the title was nice to whom. We didn't get this on the commission, at least I didn't get it. I have no idea these people are complaining and protesting their lack of respect. What attitude, when the others will come to my door tomorrow and ask for their attitude, which is against this attitude. So this we have entered into an incredible situation and I do not believe that this, firstly, Commission, and we Parliament that needs to take responsibility for itself, to choose these people, that from all this they will go away and that tomorrow, these friends of ours, our citizens do not say that we are discrimination against them. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11409	No throwing, please. Are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11410	Well, I got a negative energy radiation last term, which is a gentleman sitting behind me from a respected colleague, but I'm allowing him everything. So, seven minutes and 32 seconds, I'm done. Thank you very much. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11411	Thank you. Dear colleague Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11412	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to briefly refer to my discussion on this subject from last session. So, as I said last time, vague procedures are unclear criteria by which candidates for the National Minority Council are elected. It is absolutely unclear what results from their mandate as the desired result and what their activities are. The official website of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly cannot find a single report on the work of the Council of National Minorities, but it can be found that they have held only 20 sessions since their establishment to date and that the number of sessions has fallen rapidly from year to year. In 2009, it was 6, 2010-5, 2011-4, and 2012, held a session two days ago, 17th, with the following conclusions. - The National Minority Council is asking the Commission to propose to parliamentary homes to support most of the associations participating in the selection of these candidates for the National Minority Council list. Therefore, the Council of National Minorities of BiH considers that it cannot accept the Opinion of the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, which states that members of certain national minorities meet the law of certain conditions for inclusion in the Council of National Minorities, and therefore the Council, which, therefore, held a single session in this year and received 7 personal incomes, seeks, disagrees with the candidateship of members of national minorities and minority groups not covered by the Law on the Protection of the Rights of Members of National Minorities in BiH and denies their right to participate within this body. Also, the Council of National Minorities, with the conclusion that the suspension of fees would confirm discrimination against non-constitutional peoples, requires that their compensation be reduced in accordance with a general reduction in fees of 4.5% by the same amount. Therefore, members of the Council of National Minorities shall level themselves with civil servants, MPs, public workers who carry out fully other duties, from which certain obligations arise. I therefore propose that we once again ask for clarification of procedures, criteria, what is the mandate and what is from it, to show the results and what activities of members of the Council of National Minorities are and, of course, to support the conclusion of our Commission that, for such a registered effort, the fees of 600 KM are lifted and that the costs of the daily and travel expenses be maintained. And I also hope that we will get some information really on what the Council of National Minorities has done for the benefit of national minorities from 2007 until today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11413	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11414	Mr. Chairman. Here, I will, as the honourable MP yesterday said, Mr. Niko Lozančić, not train strictness in national minorities. I personally highly appreciate them and their work, although I respect the opinion of the lady, and I agree with him, Mrs. Dervoz, that I think that the Council of National Minorities in the last meeting has failed to fulfil its task, or that it could have done more. What Mr. Drago Kalabić has now read, and presented to us here, we did not really get it on the Joint Commission on Human Rights, we did not even consider it. Perhaps it would have been good if we had had objected, as we have received, here is the complaint of this Mr Mujić, we have received it through the service, and all the objections may have been considered and respected, or given some of our opinions, but the atmosphere on the Commission was such, even a little offended, from which Parliament to return such a thing to the Commission, such an act, and the others were mostly cemented by its opinions and decisions and I respect it. Everyone has a right to say what they think. Respecting, meaning rights, the rights of national minorities, which, in fact, the Council of National Minorities should protect and support, their status as citizens, equal citizens in BiH, I think we need to resolve all these complaints and objections, that this should be restored to the Commission. Which I am, not to be anything to defend now, or not to defend, or to attack the Roma population, Bog forbid, but here's from an unofficial conversation with Mr. Jusić, who was truly so pleasant and correct to me, he told me as much as 67,000, about 67,000 to have roma, although according to the last '91 census. The year presents 9,000 roma to have. Now there are 67 of them, maybe even more or less, we'll know that by the list we're about to have. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] 40,000, here's 40,000. I know that the Montenegrin population was the largest, now it looks Roma. But we also need to know, gentlemen, from these 17 plus 3 national minorities, that the Roma minority is the most endangered and that, respecting all others, the Roma population needs our most help, the assistance of the BiH state and about education and accommodation and everything else. It may have been a decision, although we know and mention the magistrate that from my party, Master Mujić may have, but believe me, this was crucial. I don't know, Mr. Jusić I know and I'm pleasantly surprised with his positive views, I've decided on this conclusion only for the very reason that he is stronger by profession and possibly able to help the Roma population more, and normally and other national minorities, more so. However Parliament decides I will respect it, but I think we must put a little more effort into it, not be offended when Parliament gives its opinion. And I agree with all these previous discussions, these three predecessors. So I'm staying with my attitude. Thank you very much. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11416	Thank you. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11417	How many replicas and how much clarification. So here I'm a little surprised that the Commission didn't get these documents. I think that's a bit more serious right now. The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, stands here clearly on the hands of the chairman, Mrs Pandurević, in both memos. So it's not about the individual, it's not about the association. It's two of the most representative, means alliance in the RS. I assume there are individual objections as well. This is about seven Ukrainian associations, not individuals. And this is about the roof ornamentation of the Alliance which, so one was signed by Professor Dr. Miroslav Bobrek, and the other was signed by Stevo Havreljuk. So we're in a situation where we haven't even considered it. Now I'm asking a question if you haven't considered how many of these documents? People are looking, not only to consider, but to seek, so I guess they deserve to be answered for why it was done anyway. Because if this, if this isn't taken into consideration, then I think I can be expected to participate in the procedure. If I can't influence what the Commission is doing, then I don't want to participate at all. So I, I've been asking these questions all along and not getting an answer at all – what do you do with this now? I, I have a duty to, if seven associations suggest a man, I have an obligation to propose him instead of an individual that no one here tells me how he got on the list, because I choose, we choose. I wish I didn't have to take part in this. I wouldn't ask any questions. I'm probably bored with everybody with this. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, of course, I said last time there was a sensitive question and I'm not talking about my attitudes here. I'm talking about documents. I have my own personal opinion on this, but I'm here now under the obligation to get out of this situation. So, I can go two conclusions, one is to consider on the Commission all the complaints that have obviously arrived, and the other is to change the list here in Parliament. So me, I don't have any other options, but I'd like to not go over this in a way that we don't have an answer. This isn't what happened to us, this drastic violation of procedure. Since I've been taking part in committees, every remark has been considered, whoever, in the procedure, it's been weighing well on those commissions why someone who objects and why someone complains. And it always responded to people's comments. Doesn't matter if they agree with it, but they deserve an answer. I get the feeling that someone sat down, wrote and persistently, kept pushing it along with all the other remarks I've made. That's why I said once again, these documents are in Parliament very much observant, and in the worst case scenario they deserve an answer before we come forward. I'll have two suggestions if we don't get answers to what I keep asking. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11419	Thank you. She's a colleague of Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11420	This is a replica to my colleague Nermina. It is not resolved by the question, this question of the fate of the Roma in BiH. If you were, then I'd say you're right. But one obligation is resolved under the law that the Parliamentary Assembly is obliged to form a Council of National Minorities. And now we come to how much we have a situation that has changed and gone quite the opposite. So, one good idea and this idea was that the Council of National Minorities gave an opinion, advice and a proposal to the Parliamentary Assembly. It became its purpose that the National Minority Council existed to receive compensation without having any obligation to do so. Neither advises, gives an opinion to the Parliamentary Assembly, nor participates in any way. They reminded me, he says the only thing he's done so far is to make a proposal for an amendment to the Constitution. Can you imagine, please? It's political work, political action. What key political actors in this country cannot agree on has decided to make national minorities. They are not working to help the Parliamentary Assembly, but I guess they need to create a little more chaos. So, this situation has completely crossed all borders and I think it should be done by law, and the law says that at the stage of the election, candidates must be consulted with associations of national minorities or other NGOs on national minorities. So, you need to have a corpus delict who's behind them. That's one thing. And another thing, you need to look for an annual report. So don't make it happen again to get 4-5 grand, people who haven't done anything. So, they are now holding sessions because of the paranoia they reject, not because they need to assist in the work of the Parliamentary Assembly. It's gone beyond measure and lost all meaning.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11421	Thank you. Honorable representative, Dr. Milorad Živković, hearing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11422	Thank you. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we have three things to think about. It is one law on BiH associations that has come here several times on the agenda, in which it has been observed, and here MPs discussed it, that only three representatives can practically form an association. It has been suggested that this Law be amended on several occasions. I've seen that he, one part of him is in the process. And then we need to do what a representative association is. To make criteria to say what a representative association is so that even in this example, we can get proposals from a representative association, not from all the associations that exist, which have, most of all, only three people. 52 The second thing, our Constitutional Commission should help us to interpret the Decision establishing the Council of National Minorities of BiH, which we voted here in this House in 2006. Whether we in Parliament can change, as distinguished counterpart Nermina Ćemalović has proposed, only individual members, because the decision states that the Commission proposes it to the House. The question is, can we here, individually, all of us, get some of our candidates out of our pockets and ask Parliament to vote, or will we just vote on a proposal from the Joint Commission, according to the decision we have. This should be discussed by the Constitutional Commission, whether Parliament can individually amend any member in addition to the Commission's proposal. That's how we get into a dangerous story where every one of us here chooses his candidate or gets most of us out of his pocket. And the third thing is that it's inadmissible practice to get documents that after some colleagues say they didn't have on the Commission. What's going on, someone keeping the papers? Was it the administration of Parliament, or was it someone who kept those documents with him? However, this is an inadmissible practice, and that these documents were not considered on the Commission and that the Commission had no full insight into what was happening. So as far as I can tell from your discussions, there are no conditions for us to vote on this today. The conclusions they need to make, some of them I've heard, and I believe there will be more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11423	Next, distinguished representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11424	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would, here's a quick answer. So the Commission sent a proposal. It is not true that all the materials of the Secretariat of the Commission are properly delivered to everyone in the offices. If someone hasn't read it, they haven't had time to read it, it's not our business, but to accuse the Secretariat of the Human Rights Commission of hiding the materials it's really not correct. Because the way I got them, the way the other MPs got them, it's impossible for only one MP or two to hide it. Appeals. There are over 500 complaints, Mr. Kalabić. All and one member who ran and didn't pass complained. The National Minority Council of the RS also complained that it had sent us a proposal to adopt a list of their candidates. So they made problems in the National Assembly of the RS, which they don't pay, and these here are paid. So the Council of National Minorities has this BiH complained, asking us to adopt only those they propose. The whole point is in those 600 dark ones. Others complain, says this one's quality. I believe there's a lot of quality people out there who haven't been through, but unfortunately not all of them, only one is chosen. Right? So here it's said, this one supports seven, it didn't go through. Then about here, then Mr. Jusić supports what, 15-20, 10 associations, and insists on someone who is supported by only one association. We were guided by the criteria to see that we had both entities' territorial representation and to watch, how much we can respect, and full representation. That's right, so everything and one candidate who ran, didn't pass, complained, wrote letters to everyone. Here, I saw the game of the case at the post office of our MP club that he was getting a complaint too. So, you've probably all received complaints from MPs' clubs, too, and that's why I'm staying so close to this attitude that we really need to reduce these receipts, and then we'll have a much simpler choice. Unfortunately, Mrs. Dervoz, which referred to their work, the fact, and Mrs. Majkić as she said, that we do not have their suggestions on legislative activities. We don't. Now they've sat down, the 53 first two conclusions, I guess that's how the reforms were, the bottom line was that third conclusion. There... Thank you. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11425	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11426	I've been trying to figure out who made the list all along. The Commission. How is your chairman now in... closer to these bh proposals than those from the RS? What is the advantage of bh associations over the RS, and all day we've been beating up the story of how the advantage of the RS is? I thought you had to adopt their list, that you had to. Now I hear you didn't, but that you formed it. But it's more important what the association thinks. Here it may be, but I don't know why you didn't say it was more important to you what the RS thinks? I think you should say that. Well, there's someone who's going to say it's more important to the BH association. Well, let's see, let's see. You don't need to be more Bosnac than other Bosanac. So I insist on it all the time. The chairman said one thing - representative associations. I didn't talk about my names here. I asked for an explanation. If seven Ukrainian associations have proposed a man, if you have a relevant proposal from nine associations, I would have kept my mouth shut. The question is whether or not it's a good way to go, but it's enough for me to tell these guys. I don't have names, I have papers, and I don't get it. If not everyone received these documents, why did not those who received them put them on the Commission? One, one. One, here's one he got and says I got the papers and let's look at them. No, I, correct me, understood that no one ever mentioned any documents on the Commission. And who got and who didn't get. And now I've told you, the Alliance of National Minorities of the RS is a respectable representative association, and give me only greater. It's hard to measure here. I don't argue that it's been hard for you to decide. I, this is a very controversial procedure, and I think we need to work this out. But understand me, understand those two documents. It's not about individuals. And don't mess with pears and apples. It's a group of associations that are going to ask tomorrow – wait for the more important individual who met one of us in Parliament and came to the list, now I see, what the chairman said, they came on the list because they were closer. They know that I am not a member, so they chased the members of the Commission. And they threw it in. 'Cause I ask all the time how the list was made. I asked for Ukrainians. I'm happy with the answer to say that at least one association is more. And now I will have down on my back all Ukrainian associations because one Ukrajinac at a small door entered Parliament and elected. But let someone discuss it with them. Don't make an act of choice for me to stand behind this fart. I don't want to stop, I don't want to stop. I'm not saying that the way out is what I'm proposing, but it's not when no one's going to defend the list and no one's going to get up. You can see no one's defending the list today. And no one will say that he participated in making the list and in the way it was made. So you can only make this two conclusions, or you can change the people behind whom the legitimate objections stand, not the individual's personal will or other conclusion that all these objections and all the documents that came to Parliament, so people are ashamed that our Commission is not considering the objection, but it was justifiable or unwarranted. Now it turns out that these documents are hidden, as I see it, now at this point. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11427	Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11428	Mr Kalabić, at the meeting of the Commission, everything was orderly, transparent. There was a list of who the association suggested which candidate, how many, the table display, we all had. Here, that can be confirmed by all the members of the Commission. The last time you brought out a lie here about a Ukrajinac, which is that the SDS, that is, I'm like a god-awful woman who's on our list, here's the SDS list, and I'm assuming that the lists have already been thrown out on the CEC site. So, if someone finds, and I'm asking, the lady asked you to give her a public apology, means to send her a public apology, the lady is gone, here's Mr. Franjičević asking to make sure she's not on the SDS list, she's not a member of the SDS, but the man you stand for, Mr. Kalabić, is an SNSD activist. If you'd come in time and said you might have appreciated it but you remembered the post-festum when the whole job was done. You should have invested your suggestion on time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11429	No Niko's Lozančić, an esteemed colleague. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11430	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. This problem that we are discussing is the consequence of our Law on the Rights and Position of Members of the National Minorities in BiH, which is prescribed that members of the national minorities have the right to certain protection... of rights, so by Decision adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly, it is also defined that this will be realised through the Council of National Minorities. The data is the authority of the Committee, whose member I am, that Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly, means the Joint Commission of both homes, means that it proposes to the Parliamentary Assembly a list of candidates for the Council of National Minorities. The procedure in the work... the chairman is, to clarify, but there's nothing mystical about it, there's nothing hidden, there's nothing, I don't know, I don't know, if we were to spend this much energy on many other issues where our end would be, the procedure is next. On the occasion, before the term of office of the current members of the National Minority Council, the committee responsible called and called on all associations of national minorities and individuals of interest to have their representative in the Council of National Minorities, to apply, to propose candidates. And some used it on time, some didn't. The procedure lasted a few months, so it wasn't over in three days. We in the Committee have opted to form a working group, in which they were members of the Commission's College, to look at all the candidacys, respectfully, here's the Madam Chairman said some of these criteria, and to look at all these criteria and propose to the Committee a list of candidates. There were no heated debates on the Committee. So no one, no objection to the work of this task force, and in the task force they were members of the Committee, so they weren't people on the side. All the time in this problem, all representatives of all national minorities had access to the Commission's work. No one was prevented from attending the session, and some used the right to step forward. and explain why they suggested this and didn't suggest anything else. No one's been denied the possibility. Is in this Council, in this proposal the best solution, Bog knows dearly, but we will not do a favor to any national minority, nor to all the national minorities that this issue will stretch for another few months. I'm sure we won't do them any favors. Perhaps the current 55 work of the Council is not satisfactory. I also said that at the Committee's session – if you asked people if they were satisfied with Parliament's work, you'd hear a lot of things. But here we are again sitting, working, I mean, there is no better, this is the best Parliament has. This Council that has so far is the best Council there is, it is something new in BiH's political and social practice. First, if we had settled this issue by law, secondly that we had formed a Council, and we should understand the fact that even the people who are members of the Council, which some of them spoke of at the Committee's session, are at the beginning of a weaker pace. But I'd say they don't get along any less than anyone else who participates in different maybe more responsible institutions. In that sense, I think that, here is the biggest contribution to help address the issues of national minorities in BiH in a better way, to finally adopt the list proposed by the Commission. To be honest, I don't have any favorites in... those lists, so I don't mind if someone has a very special desire to change any of the names, even though I think it's important to appreciate that there's been discussions on the committees for a few months now on the task force and that there's been a, here's a list like this. And so, here I call, first of all, the House of Representatives, that the list no longer returns to the Commission because here I am a member of the Commission and I can't now, yesterday I was for this list, that the day after tomorrow I will be for another list. It's the principle. Maybe we won't get to any list. So, with respect, again, I'm saying that maybe all the members who are proposed are not the happiest solutions but I think it's much better if we adopt this today, to open up space to the Council of National Minorities to study their commitment and their right and to help them be more effective in the future and their specific suggestions, and perhaps by respecting their reflections on certain issues that are of the interest of minorities that they represent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11431	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11432	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11433	How much?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11434	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11435	At the SNSD Club's proposal, it's 10 minutes off. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow MPs, I ask everyone present to take their seats. The president of the SNSD Parliament Club asked for a break. You need a break to comment. Here you go. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11437	I have a fat need. I apologize to my colleagues, I've been looking for a break to check, so some things are because I'm not sure I'm always right, and now I'm just convinced I'm right. So, the Commission was marketing, that's where they made the deal, that's where they made the deal, that's who's got who's got who's who. On my third question who is behind it, because I said this is not the proposal of Drago Kalabić, this is the proposal of the association, but some members of the Commission had their proposals and I ask them today to say it. No, I don't. So, the Commission was just a market. That never happened. So no one's going to explain to these people, not my proposal, and here we were mentioned to have one. Slavko Jovičić did not participate in that market, and therefore thank him, he did not participate because the message was to us if you have anyone. I made my remarks clear last time. These remarks are not appreciated until today, because I said look, not in my views, but in these people's remarks. So have we now rejected that we will not respond at all to the attitudes of these associations? It was a group in the Commission that was being negotiated -- I, you, yours, I think it's clear now that it was a market. So, I'm embarrassed to say to Mrs. Pandurević, Miss Pandurević - a lie, meaning distinguished colleague Marija Stefanišin Datešin(?) is on the list of national minorities in front of the SDS, not on the SDS list because you never had national minorities on your lists, you know they were running like the devil from the cross from you. So on the list of national minorities, she's a candidate in the election and Andrija Svatok, Andrija Svatok, who is proposed by nine Ukrainian associations is not on any list, is not on any list, not on any list, not on the list. Don't say that. I respect that woman, don't make me arbitrize between that woman and that man, their associations have arbitration. I ask you for the 16th time – who suggested Marija Stefanjuk, of course you did not answer because you suggested. I respect that, too, but these are stronger, if you're fair. But even if you're not fair, don't ask me to take part in this. The national minorities didn't deserve to turn this into a market and trade for members of the Komsija, they didn't deserve it. This shouldn't have happened. And I don't need an answer, I don't have my proposals, and I don't participate in... I prayed for an answer on behalf of the Alliance of National Minorities of the Republic of Slovenia and on behalf of the Ukrainian Association. There are no answers. The proposal for a conclusion is mine to return it to the Commission to respect these objections, the documents you did not show, I did not even get an answer to what would happen to those documents that are, here we are. I don't see any other way. Don't ask me to participate. I can only suggest such a conclusion. I have no demands, but do not respond to the official documents that came to this Parliament and argue that we work for national minorities, and we have objections to their work and we are dragging them into ordinary political trade and market. It's not right what we do to them, with everything we said today. I support, as some colleagues have said, that work needs to be improved and that there should be... But if it's fair that someone from the national minorities has to find a private person in Parliament to get into the Council, it's not right either. Then they don't need associations, then we don't need that law, or everything else. I don't think this is right, and there's no need, and I apologize to everyone if I'm bored with this, but I said why I have a problem and I needed to make it right. These are facts, and you can do whatever you want. And once again, I thank Slavko Jovičić who did not participate in the market because he thought there were representative associations that would negotiate, regulate and we here accept it without notice. You have, I hear today there have been 100 comments from individuals but no one will say, these seven associations, what would happen to their remarks because it's being removed. Now I understand, because you'd have to respect people, so of course an individual can't handle seven associations. I apologize again for harassing you. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11438	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11439	Here, Mr. Kalabić, in the meantime, since I didn't have a proposal... the lady in question was proposed by the Union of National Minorities of the Municipality of Prnjavor, a roof association that gathers all those who have run for office and this gentleman. As for the list of national minorities of SDS in Prnjavor, he does not have his own list, nor has he run for any of the national minorities. The lady is her own candidate, she has every right to run. It's not an SDS candidate, we don't have anywhere in the RS, as far as we know, we didn't go to elections with a list of national minorities. But your imagination before each election as well as the previous years, Mr. Kalabić, as the elections are received by Mr. Kalabić, who is a candidate for the head of the Municipality of Prnjavor, is beginning to grow in his imagination. I mean, Mr. Kalabić, don't ask your pre-election campaign from Prnjavor to bring here into this House and to obstruct here.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11440	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11441	All the papers all the MPs had. And it is not true, at the first session, I ask the minutes to be delivered, when the lists of national minorities, when adopted, Mr Kalabić, the first proposal – your member voted for, see the minutes you will also get a stenogram from the session. After that, two more sessions of the Joint Commission were held, don't make me tell you why I held one, don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11442	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11443	No Niko's hidden anything, Mr. Kalabić, a document. You are very incorrect and this, you know what this situation reminds me of – when you are four years ago in the middle of Prnayvor, Mr. Kalabić is starting to cry out for help, by the police. The police come and find our chairman of the Municipal Committee in the pub, which is, by the way, a European champion, a vice-sampion of the world in karate, a black belt bearer on the sixth day, they say – Drago Kalabić and sued you for beating him up. The man doesn't matter, listen I beat him up, watch out for the black belt for the sixth day he beat him up on the street. Happiness here somewhere on the street was a police officer and said – no, I saw Draga Kalabić standing in the middle of the street and yelling at the police, police, police, help. Now, this reminds me a lot of the situation. Since Mr.... is once again a candidate who will defeat Mr. Kalabić in Prnjavor, I understand your anxiety, but don't, Mr. Kalabić, please. (?) No microphone 58 is included
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11444	I wanted to talk about it. Dear colleague and president of the SNSD Club Mr Drago Kalabić, a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11445	I expected, Mr. Chairman, that someone from the College would call on it, I ask the question, that I would be given an answer as an MP – what about complaints, what about documents and that has to do with the agenda point. I didn't get answers, I get this kind of deception and lies. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] ...well, well, I said so.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11447	You can see who's running away.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11448	Well, of course, since a man won't run away, you got a black belt, right here on your half-municipality board slapping me not to be afraid of him. I mean, funny. Well, I was defending myself once, but it looked pathetic, and here I am, defending, I think. Six people crossed over to us, what happened, beat us, they say. Well, that's nowhere to be found, I think. I ask you if you can answer, this is, I can accept everything but I cannot accept that the Commission has hidden the documents this Parliament has to say. That's why I'm defending, no, I'm defending, Mr. Jovičić, who thought he shouldn't interfere with it, that there's a procedure, that nothing will be hidden. And of course he voted because he didn't participate in the market, he didn't have his own, no one was pulling his sleeve. I don't need to be his lawyer, the man said that, but I asked them not to be others. And you don't need to, here and now, give answers just to these documents.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11449	All right, give me your conclusions, please. Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go. Do you have anyone to give the replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11450	Of course not, so I won't call you, you didn't answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11451	Well, there's no one here. 59 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11452	Well, she'll give it there for the media now, everyone's waiting for her, star estranged, like she's Bogami, but I won't, I have to replicate for a stenogram. So, counterpart Kalabić has already said that he has been injured by the Rules of Procedure. What caratists here have to do with this agenda point, but here's the thing. I've got a belt, but for kidneys, from broken kidneys, not to beat someone up by me. That's on this story. Keep going. Well, people, if there's anything more reasonable when I'm on the Commission, here's an esteemed colleague, here's all the members, and you're going to vote for the association, and I'm telling them fine, which the association delivers to me that there are 150 members, so I said, and the one that has six members. Well, I'll vote for whoever represents 150 people. I don't need names, because I don't know who's 150 or what's 6. Well, there's no more logical thing than to make a statement like that. And then, if it were then, no one could honor any colleague here in Parliament that we are against this or that I was in favour of a rational proposal by a distinguished colleague, Ćemalović, who said who could represent there, not even then, that someone would not have misunderstood, for some individual. And since I said I knew two people on that list, I did ask a question on the Commission. But if the Jewish Association suggested Mr. Finci be in the 5,000 commissions, I just asked how it was possible to be everywhere. But there you go, that's it. So, I was abstentioned to the list. And I respect the efforts of the College of Commissions that he prepared, because even in the College of Commissions, they didn't know any man, I suppose. But here's what I knew, that some people called me and lobbyed me, but nobody should call me because I would never accept even if the club chief told me. And today there was a reason for me to replicate to a respected colleague, how you guys are doing something like that. You're the chairman of this House for me, at the club, a functioner who's taller than me. And I don't care what anyone else says to me from Banja Luka and call me, I decide. And if the party president calls me and I'm wrong, let him punish me, and I'll never stand up to him. But here to mention the constant story of someone putting pressure on him, as you practically did, Mr. Bosić said this, and he's gone, too, right, what I'm going to replicate to him now, he's gone. They're just spouting their three-moon story, waiting for them there their media and tonight's stars. I ask the press never to ask me for a statement because I'm tired of both Bog and the people, and most of all I apologize to you because I appreciate you most, I'm sitting here with you. And of course, these NGOs who keep track of all this, are they going to appreciate something that I don't care about, in terms of something? But here's what to replicate when they're gone.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11453	That's right. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 11th point, Ad. 11. Conclusion of the 4th session of the Commission of Investigation on the establishment of the spending of donor funds The Commission for the Determination of Donors' Spendings submitted a proposal for a conclusion on 06.07 asking the House to extend the mandate to the Commission by the end of the term of office of the House of Representatives. 60 I am opening a debate on the Opinion proposal with a certain statement that we also talked about it at the Extended College that we were not in the majority part about accepting this conclusion and that this conclusion needed to be modified. I'm asking all those who participated in that debate that, here's the extra we're not complicating things. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11455	The Honorable Chairman. I really think this is unmarked in the practice of parliamentary democracy that one working body, the ad hoc working body of Parliament, is asking for a decision to be taken, i.e. to extend the commission's mandate to the end of the term of office of the House of Representatives. So, I knew by now that the deadline until when all those ad hoc or other commissions had to bring, finished their work that was one important thing. So we tried very hard not to be late, if we had to extend the deadline once in about two or three months to get consent to that. But demand that the work of the commission be extended by the end of the term of office, I interpret it this way. Now I'm sure I won't do anything that hasn't already been two commissions before me, but I want to create an illusion that I'm going to do something about it. So I'm sure we should, we should deal with this. But the commission has reached the wall, and beyond that, it can't go anywhere. There are the institutions of this country that should do it. They obviously won't do it. The working body of Parliament will not do that. And that's why I think it's inappropriate to ask that by the end of the term of office, I really ask you, and College, please, when we put these things in sessions to really make sure they're too much and how much they make sense. I think it's simple, not to spoil any principles that apply to parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11456	My kolegica Majkić, I understand yours, but understand that these are our colleagues, our MPs, our commission that we have chosen, the committee that adopted the conclusion and the committee that passed the conclusion here. You can't not go out to meet the commission and discuss that conclusion. Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11457	Well, look, it wasn't the commission that asked her to form herself, but this Dom formed a commission with the exact tasks set out. You gave us a very short deadline. We couldn't do that job in such a short time. I suggest or extend the deadline, that the commission finishes its part of the job and once put an end to the story of stolen funds that have entered BiH, which have been donated to BiH, or abolish this commission because there is no need for it to work, let agencies do their part of the job, and not to give us a lecture, this is unseen, this is, precisely, those who are members, I don't know, one, two or three even ad hoc commissions. Therefore, I ask you to hold our colleague's dignity.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11458	Here, from what you've seen, I've been trying to discuss in this direction and to say that the commission does not receive compensation for its work. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11459	I thank the chairman. Since I signed on behalf of the commission, and you said well that these are all parliamentarians who, here, are sitting right here and therefore me little, and I have to look back at, I'm a little surprised by the discussion of colleague Majkić who, like this, can be quite euphoric, and there's nothing here, so there's no reason. Well, one of my suggestions, if Mrs. Majkić thinks this way, is to co-opt her into this committee or replace her with someone. I believe that any of the members would be very happy to agree to come out without a colleague, Majkić, entering if she thinks she can possibly do something in this part. It's true that this commission has been working over the past two mandates and has come to some knowledge, or not to say certain work results, so they've found out that I'm not enlaborating now, so they've determined that some 7 billion and some million KM have entered, and it's known about where they ended up. But you don't even know if it was spent at least the way we were reported there. The past commission has, therefore, sent to one 4,000 addresses, meaning the 4,000 addresses were sent questions as to how and in what way the donor funds were spent, which at one time entered, not through institutions, not through the Ministry of Finance, not through the Central Bank, but even individually through municipalities, individuals, associations and so on. We got an answer to some 1,360 about 2,600, 2,700, so there's no answer. And this commission has seen where we end up with problems and what our legal options are. That's why we had one meeting. So the College of Justice Commissions and the Ministry of Justice have made themselves available to see and find out, means together with our services, what roles and powers similar to those in the countries of the environment, means that they have powers and what co-operation with law enforcement is. So we also had one meeting with the Intelligence Agency, OSCE representatives, investigative agencies, SIPA representatives and the BiH Prosecutor's Office. Since these donations are shared and not known, a number of applications have been submitted, but in different prosecutions. All those organisations that have headquarters, for example. in Canton of Sarajevo, for them, such applications are in charge of kantonalno, meaning if they have such registration the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office, not the State. We have received information that the state's attorney's office, here when we are talking about the authorities, the BiH Prosecutor's Office on prosecution or investigation, so it didn't start, it didn't start, we can say free none, is one investigation which, in some of the donors with the category of international crime and even terrorism. And so that's where our authorities, the judicial authorities, have one co-ordination with the international ones and work on such two cases, not at all. So we got confirmation from the prosecution, from the BiH Prosecutor's Office that neither the Agency for Investigations or SIPA nor the BiH Prosecutor's Office, nor any other, will initiate any process if it is based on the documentation that was copied. So, we would have to come up with some way to the original documentation of something, to see that there were some mistakes and possibly pass that documentation to the prosecution that would then give a warrant to the Agency for Investigations or Police to determine, means the state of movement of such funds, or where they ended up. So we said, and to point out to the public here that this commission that works there has no fee for its work, so that no one would possibly think, was there a word earlier when there were a Council of National Minorities of 600 Marks. So this is the commission, or members of the commission, without any compensation. And that's why we asked that it not be limited to us, because we planned for the next session to be called by the prosecution, and cantonal, and let's see by these grounds how long it's been going on and whether 62 is being prosecuted by the prosecution whether an initiative has been launched for possible or any lawsuits being filed. Then we were told very clearly by the prosecutors that all those cases that are, and the subject of this commission, the investigation means the determination of donations from '95. Or '96. Until 2008, it was quite transparent in the end. All that happened by 2002 was that it was in the complete process of obsolescence. So not only until 2002, we have meaning, some objects have 3 years of age and some are 5 years old. And we've seen where we are, and what our options are, and that's why we've been looking for something to find out, if we don't make it public, regardless of why no one will answer to the judicial authorities, so we've asked for this one. But I'm saying it can be, what you chaired said at the College, and a shorter period of time and the commission will submit a clear report, a first meeting, a second, a third, a fifth, is, what kind of cooperation is and that we will ask, here's what counterpart Mehmedović said, to put a point on and, what, was it, what was, our possibility..., we can't do anything or what we did we can put in public. Here's so much, it means not that we'd like to do it by the end of the term. Parliament has formed a commission, and we can make an entire debate about it. As for our board members, she can stop working today. For the next session, we'll prepare a report on what we've been doing and there's no problem at all. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11460	The majority was a proposal at the Extended College that this would happen another six months of extension and that the report would be delivered. If you're in the mood to go in that direction, not to discuss it further because we should have taken a break one at 2:00 for the meetings that are scheduled, but I won't take anyone's opportunity to call. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, replica. Isolate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11461	Dear colleague Jurišić, I really agree with everything you've said. But what you didn't say was that this, as well as the previous commission, repeats what Mr Gligorić said when he finished the first commission. Parliament has reached the wall. We can't go on and there's no willingness in the Federation to get that thing out. So those who were at that time, and we know who was acting in power, are also the key culprits, which is why the commission hasn't made any progress. And the key culprits sitting on commissions today did nothing to make a step at different levels and to see where they ended up with that kind of money. Giving the commission a treatment like this by the end of the term is a difficult term for me, because if you said we'd try another six months or three months or nine months, come on without some arguments, I would, that would be problematic for me, but by the end of the term, it's not okay. That's one thing. And secondly, I also don't think it's okay, no commission in this House has worked without compensation. I don't think it's right to be this commission, but she has to come down to the goal and the deadline. That's my attitude so you don't think I had any wrong motive.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11462	Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica. Here you go. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11463	Well, my replica refers to the finding that, well, there is no will in the Federation to resolve this issue. This isn't true. The Commission is on the verge of actually making a systematic solution that every Parliament's assembly does not again form a Committee for Interrogation depending on who needs to be given daily political purposes to wave on paper, so it has entered BiH, neither do I, 7 billion, 10 billion, or even 40 billion. So once we put a paw to see what went into BiH, where those funds were spent, and we create a database that could be used by any citizen, that everyone knows how much they spent, where they spent and so on. Therefore, it is not true that there is no willingness in the Federation, there is. I'm only afraid that in certain parts of BiH, as it is said when we have audited the citizenship of naturalised citizens of BiH, when a position came from one part of BiH, there's rodents ate the documentation, I'm afraid in this case they won't already eat the documentation so we don't have that final database formed. So here's the finding that doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11464	A colleague, Lazar Prodanović, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11465	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues. I would like to thank first of all my distinguished colleague Jurišić, who briefly explained the commission's work, although the media could monitor the difficulties and problems in his work. If we were at least part of the commission's work report, in line with the decision on its establishment and mandate by this House of Representatives, I would have been willing to make a statement on this proposal for a conclusion. This conclusion, which is only based on, completely without any introduction to the proposal for the duration of its term of office, is, in my opinion, unacceptable and it is a reduction of the level of work of commissions, or ad hoc, or temporary commissions, or these permanent, this House of Representatives. I believe that it is necessary to give up this conclusion proposal and to assign the Commission of Investigations on the spending of donor funds, to establish the spending of donor funds in BiH, to submit a report to the next meeting of the Representative's House with a proposal for measures and possible conclusions in order to say that it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the business opportunities and the existing legislation, so that in BiH, it has done what is possible and that the documentation in such and such a state provides to the competent investigative institutions in BiH that would act in accordance with the law, or whether it has the elements of responsibility for the use of such funds. And that's one option. And another to be said that we believe that the House of Representatives should consider the possibility of a clearer definition of the work of survey committees or public hearings and that, accordingly, it is necessary, I do not know, to make amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure or to adopt either a law or a new act which could define it to be more specific. The second question could also say that it is necessary for the Commission to work for 3 to 4 or 2 to 3 months. Every other way of working is, in my opinion, a pity on the MPs and on this House. We have far more important issues in this country that we could solve more effectively. It's often used in different ways. What I believe should be sent a strong message to the judicial institutions that any 64 abuse in this country, public or donor or any other means, should be sanctioned and in accordance with BiH legislation. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11466	Thank you. Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11467	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, when I suggested that this point be on the agenda in the first place, so the commission was later formed, it was an obligation last night calling on the House of Representatives to make full information and to meet the House of Representatives. Of course, the call was changed, but the obligation remained. And we did it. So, to be clear and concrete, it is already said, but one hundred times should be highlighted, in this committee, the only one formed by Parliament is no one has a mark. So you're not paying for this commission. I am now asking rationally and rationally all my colleagues, so is there any of you who are not members of this committee to volunteer and to have what we have now. Secondly, they extended my mandate to this commission by the end of this term, or some came to the next meeting and another hundred mandates, this will be difficult to resolve. We had all kinds of information, so they read everyone in the media, so if you don't believe it or if you have a different opinion, here's my suggestion today that today's House of Representatives decide to interrupt this commission's work and disbanded the commission. But if you all think that everything here has been done normally, rationally, that donations have been spent, that you don't see around you where you live, how giant fairies have been, how the businesses have been nickeled, how I don't know what it is, and you know that these people have not been working anywhere or abroad, that there's neither a father nor a grandmother of bil Gejs to give them money and billions of dollars. Well, then various speculations, to admit, and I used to be the figures of a variety, but respected Professor Žarko Papić, whom everyone was respected as the federal minister, came out, otherwise I never mentioned the names privately or publicly, but he came out with a figure to the public that 53 billion donations arrived here. I listened to him with my ears and looked with my own eyes and later read. Follow a little media like me, don't sleep when you need to, I don't know who asked me but here's a little bit more to mind than what I'm doing, let's take a little care of the other numbers.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11468	Don't come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11469	But good, I mean, I like intruders because I like these communications so informally. So, what happened? Here, I propose, and then I suggested in the last meeting I was just, I think nine months of this commission, yes, here are my fellow witnesses, the distinguished colleague Bećirović, the esteemed colleague Mehmedović, that we not be the law enforcement, the prosecution, the judges we can't be, but bring all the institutions. And just last session we did it. We bring in the BiH prosecutor, bring in various agencies, and all these people confirm to us that they are powerless and Parliament in the last term gives us a commanding character, just to remind you, that we have the authority to do what we do, to listen to everyone. But there, people volunteered to come to us, so we didn't call them to tell us 65 where all the billions and billions went. To finish, distinguished colleagues will never solve this if you give us an extension of three months, six months or 16 years, never anyone, ever. So please stop this story, make a decision, here's a proposal, and not what I'm running from this commission's work, I repeat to you, there's no such media left, and they won't, they'll write tomorrow that I'm fighting it all pays there, here's a free thing I've been doing there my whole life fighting thieves, with a little effect I can't do alone and with the cooperation of a few colleagues,... So, I'm not interested in working on this committee at all, this is someone who got me into the last session, I said I'd resign, but I can't because of colleagues at the club that I really appreciate and their opinion, so say Slavuj, you're the closest, you know, to earlier from your services and see who that is. Niko gave me advice, I told myself. He can't give me the chairman's advice or Lazo Prodanović to whom this is all funny. It can't be done. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, there's nobody here when I'm criticizing someone, he's gone. But when he criticises me... So, can I write a conclusion for the next session that the House of Representatives, not today we are burdened with these various things and I see that the House of Nations has worked up functionally and they have passed the tariff law in our text, of course they have no amendments, so I'm doing a digression to relax a little, so for the next session you have a proposal for a conclusion, and not today, the work of all possible commissions to investigate the thief. And whoever mentions it will have at least one of me by the Rules of Procedure two replicas and 10 private conversations in the hallway, there as they are being conducted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-2.u11471	I'm closing the debate. Thank you. Dot 12, Ad. 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and Raiffeisen Bank International AG – Project for Modernisation of the University of Banja Luka Thirteen Point, Ad. 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the loan of Phase III Modernisation of Hospitals in Bosnia and Herzegovina between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Republika Srpska and the Export and Import Bank of Korea (Government of the EDCF Agency). 14. Giving consent to ratification of the arrangement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Korea on the loan from the Economic Development Co-operation Fund for Phase III of the Hospital Modernisation Project I suggest that these three points of discussion come together. If there's no one in charge of the hearing, I'm closing the hearing. 66 I suggest that, is it okay if we vote in 10 minutes? In 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
