ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9210	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 25th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the session: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs and representatives of the media. We also invited a parliamentary military commissioner and general auditor of the Office for the Audit of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Institutions. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. According to service information, there are 32 MPs present. I find the session has a quorum to work with. As for the amendments and additions to the agenda, I would like to inform you that we have completed the agenda: - point 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on State Service in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Constitutional Commission Report. We added to the agenda: - point 5. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (first reading); - point 8. Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law, with the Constitutional Commission's opinion (These two draft laws fulfilled the business assumptions, so we put them on the agenda today.) - Point 19. Consider the extension of the mandate to BHRT Management Board members. I would also like to inform you that we have received from the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigrants, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics a request for removal from the agenda of two points, which are: - Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of holocausts, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity and - Annual report on the occurrences of discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011; 2 (namely, the Joint Commission has not held its 11th session due to lack of quorum and has not delivered the necessary opinion on the draft law and the Annual Report. She also requested an extension of the time limit for the delivery of opinions on these materials. However, the College of the House and the Extended College of the House decided that these points should not be removed from the agenda but that the Commission should try... today or before the session and during the lunch break to hold the session and deliver the necessary opinions.) On the agenda, we removed the point: 16. Declaration on the initiative of MPs Božo Ljubić from the 15th session of the House of Representatives, held 8. 11. In 2011, at the request of the promoter, since he will be absent from the session, so we will consider this initiative at the next session (this was adopted at the Enlarged College). I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9211	We have a proposal to supplement the agenda in accordance with Article 65. Rules of Procedure. The point would be: 'The current problems and consequences of BiH's 2012 budget not being passed and the non-execution of obligations stemming from the laws adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly of BiH'. The explanation is very short: So it is the constitutional legal obligation of the Council of Ministers, the Presidency and Parliament of BiH to bring the budget for next year by the end of the current year. Bosnia and Herzegovina, here, is 15.16 months of temporary funding and the last budget was adopted regularly in December 2009. The consequences, of course, are more or less known to everyone, so the functioning of institutions, international reputation, European pathway, investment, etc., and in addition, the non-execution of laws and obligations that we here have taken over products of what we have in front of the building, which we all go through these days. If this item of the agenda were to be accepted, we prepared two conclusions, a very short conclusion. So, firstly, to call on the Council of Ministers and the Presidency to immediately, regardless of these announcements tomorrow, etc.,... prepare and establish the 'Proposal of the Budget' and deliver it to this Parliamentary Assembly for adoption, in such a way that it covers all international contractual and legal obligations, including the one I spoke of, which is derived from the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH, which was also adopted by this assembly. Another conclusion would be that this parliament is ready to adopt a budget in a procedurally quick manner. Here, that's what we had to propose, MPs of the Party for BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9212	Two short questions. First is a few points of the agenda...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9213	I'll leave it to the secretary... 3
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9214	And the second question is, how do you think we get the material for this agenda point? Do you have any material or do you think...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9215	I have a proposal for a conclusion, the material absolutely doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9216	Please don't waste any time, give me a break, now you deliver it to me in writing, if there's no one else registered for the agenda, you read it, and I'll put it to the vote right away. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9217	That's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9218	Go ahead, read the agenda item to close the debate and put it to the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9219	So this is the agenda point: 'Current problems and consequences due to BiH's 2012 budget not being passed and not fulfilling the obligations arising from the laws adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH'. The aim is to make a statement after the debate on these two conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9220	Okay. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 13, "against" 15, "restricted" four. This proposal for amending and supplementing the agenda has not passed. I find that the 25th session of the House has the following 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 24th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1811 of 8. Nine. In 2011, with the Constitutional Commission Report; 4 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, proposed by the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, Law No 01-02-02-1-2811, of 29. 12. 2011 (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1012, of 16. 2. In 2012 (first reading); 6. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of a holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity, legislators Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, Law No 01-02-1-1611, of 5. Nine. 2011 (first reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, MEP Ismet Dervoz, Law No 01-02-1-412, of 19. 1. 2012 (first reading) – a delayed debate at the 24th session of the House, held 15. 3. In 2012, 8 / 8 Proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law, proposed by the MPs of the Alliance for a Better Future of BiH Club, Law No 01-02-1-1112, of 13. 3. In 2012, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 9. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers Milorad Živković, Božo Ljubić and Denis Bećirović (first reading); 10. The Commission's report to the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion from the Commission's Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2411, of 9. 11. 2011; 11. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, MEPs Drago Kalabić and Darko Babalj, Law No 01-02-1-712, of 1. 2. 2012; 12. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, MPs Drago Kalabić and Darko Babalj, Law No 01-02-1-612, of 1. 2. 2012; 13. Report on the work of BiH Parliamentary Military Commissioner for 2011, material No 01,02,053-50-19-30312, of 29. 2. 2012; 14. Report on the impact audit carried out on the theme "Inhabitation of returnees", material of the BiH institutions' audit office, No 014-16-1-27812, of 27. 2. In 2012, 15. Annual Report on Discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 on Human Rights Institution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue 01,02-12-34512, of 12. 3. 2012; 16. Declaration on Parliamentarian Mirsad Đugum's initiative from the 16th session of the House of Representatives, held on 22 May 2016. 12. In 2011, which reads "To form a commission in the state parliament that would, with the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Health Ministers of the Federation of BiH and Republika Srpska, in the short term, look at legal opportunities and real needs for the opening of special hospitals that would provide tertiary healthcare services, with the aim of treating the disease currently being treated abroad, e.g. Childhood cardiosurgery, 5 bone marrow transplants, liver transplants, kidneys, treatment of certain forms of cancer, etc. These institutions would be state-level and would serve to treat all BiH citizens’; 17. Declaration on the initiative of MP Nermine Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović from the 23rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 16. 2. In 2012, which reads "I propose that an Interresor Working Group be formed to prepare the Law on Political Parties in BiH, that is, the Law on Political Organisations in BiH. I propose that the deadline for preparing and sending to the parliamentary procedure of the Political Party Act be 30. 4. 2012’; 18. Declaration on Ismete Dervoz's initiative from the 23rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 16. 2. In 2012, which reads "In accordance with Article 8. I shall refer the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to the Colleges of both Houses of Parliament, requiring them to initiate a decision that will ensure that discrimination is stopped and equality is achieved in the language with respect to persons of the female sex used in communication, internal acts and materials, acts and materials sent to other institutions in the country and abroad, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and in all other situations that so require.’; Consider the extension of the mandate to the members of the Management Board of BHRT; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention on International Exercise of the right to support the child and other forms of family support, drawn up in The Hague on 23 November 2007; 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Convention of the Council of Europe on contact with children (ETS 192), drawn up in Strasbourg on 15 May 2003; 22. Giving consent to ratification of the Convention of the Council of Europe on the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse (ETS 201), drawn up in Lanzarote on 25 October 2007; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the implementation of the Agreement between the European Community and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the reading of persons staying without authorisation; 24. Giving consent to ratification of the Technical Arrangement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the United States State Department of State for aid in the destruction of light weapons and various types of ammunition. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Point one Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 24th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9229	Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected members of the Office for Audit, representatives of the Council of Ministers, here, let me say that today we have a very important point and I am sorry that the speaker has not said a word. When someone decides to propose anything related to the review of BiH institutions, then I really think that it should not only bring in writing a proposal but also speak strongly about the motives of it. What is indisputable is that the proponent came from a good intention to increase the efficiency of BiH institutions, as the audit report increasingly points to a decline in financial discipline in institutions and an increase in the recommendations of the audit, so in 2009, we had 286 recommendations in the audit reports, and in 2010, we had 463. It speaks of a strong financial indiscipline that has increased and increased for years. Thus, such a relationship between institutions and ignoring the repair of the situation states that something must be changed, but I think these changes more require the implementation of certain already adopted legal solutions than the amendment of the law that is proposed. Because if we adopt such a proposal for a solution, 9 I believe that we would bring down the hard-earned experience and knowledge in the field of audit, which we should not miss out on even this opportunity to give a strong thanks to the 'Sweden State Office', which, here for 10 years, helps BiH improve the audit, financial audit and impact audit. What is not good is that parliamentarians occasionally reach for amendments to the law even when they do not have enough experience and knowledge in the area, especially not looking at complete matter and not getting into the scale of things, because I can interpret this as an escape from the responsibility of the Parliamentary Assembly, which is the first and most responsible because the situation in BiH institutions is as it is. Consider how we behave when considering audit reports. Let's put in 70 reports at once and make some quick decisions just to get it off the agenda as soon as possible. Is that our responsibility? And who's more responsible, does anyone have any more responsible for it? The audit can make recommendations but it can't carry them out. It is our task to insist that they be implemented. How do we behave when we adopt reports on the work of the Council of Ministers? I remember twice we had a very strong debate on the subject, we had a bunch of objections to those reports, and no one dared not adopt them. Because it was a question of what if one report was not adopted, does that mean that the entire Council of Ministers report was dropping? So, we've been irresponsible here, and we've never suggested anything that would strengthen responsibility and draw attention to institutions that don't work properly. I understand the promoter, he came from the fact that more laws are more responsibilities. But it's not always like that. What is the essence of this proposal? Amendment of Article 14 by adding a new position, which says: 'The impact review of the position (1) of this member shall be mandatory for all institutions under Article 11 of this Act, at least once in four years.' It speaks of insufficient investment in a complete problem, because although there is a need to increase the number of impact audits, it is indeed on the soul of the audit office, because so far we have had since 2006, it seems to me, just four. There are no arguments why it is not possible in this way to solve the problem. There's no convincing argument that a law like this would solve the problem. Here, I'll tell you why. The impact review is a new kind of revision, because so-called three es – economics, efficiency and efficiency of the work of the institutions and, as we have seen, it is much more complex than the financial audit. Unlike the financial audit in accordance with the laws and regulations, the impact review does not deal with investigations and actions. The aim of the impact review is to help clients. Who? The institutions of BiH to improve the organisation, business and efficiency and that the money spent on their work gives better results. The impact review must choose some of the current problems. So what I'm saying here is that the promoter thought it was likely that an audit of the entire finance ministry could be carried out. So it has to come from a particular problem. We had a chance to see what impact review meant, for example Business space, we've seen how institutions behave at the lease. And this is a concrete result of the impact review. So the impact review has been tasked with seeing what will contribute to improving some of the things that society will benefit directly. And on these few audits we've had so far, we've had it very clear. In all three refizione institutions, it means the Office for Audit, both the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Federation Audit Office, experts from the Swedish State Office have been monitoring the work for 10 years. They shall monitor and introduce an impact review. So, they work very hard with us so we don't make a mistake and an oversight. The Commission would be surprised to see that Mr. Kabil did not take part in this because he would be much more helpful in a better-quality proposal – he is familiar with the capacity of the Office for Auditing the impact audit. So the financial audit is the primary audit in all three revisive institutions, and the impact review is only at the beginning. Here I said that in 2006 we only had four. The number of auditors working on impact review is only in creation and sets 10 legal conditions for almost 20 institutions to be processed annually through an impact review is an impossible mission. That means breaking up the office for the review, which means putting them who they can't wear, they can't execute. It means pre-laws that cannot be fulfilled. More importantly, the impact review requires multidisciplinary teams that are not available, do not exist on the market, cannot be obtained, but must be created. So the office has to work on their creation. And finally, unlike the financial audit, the impact review lasts from year to year and a half. It's big times and big jobs in front of the audit kancelarija. It is therefore necessary to significantly increase the number of auditors we do not have in order to implement Article 1. It should also be clear to all that financial auditors cannot do an impact review. The impact reviewers should be created. So from that point of view, this proposal, everything I said, I was talking about the first member. As regards the addition of Article 16a) of the Corrective Action of Parliament which is prescribed that in the case of repeated findings, failure to respond to the audit report and cases of non-executive audit recommendations in the report, the budget of one or budgetary institutions is reduced, I ask you who is in charge of the budget. Is it necessary to make a law and it is known that Parliament is the one who adopts the budget. Who prevented us from reducing the budget to one of the BiH institutions? Is this supposed to be a new legal provision for something that already exists as a solution? The second thing, is to initiate a procedure to determine the responsibilities of the managers of the institutions concerned. I remind you that there is a Law on Administration which clearly and precisely defines that the Head of the Authority and his deputy are responsible if they do not exercise their powers and obligations of the Parliamentary Assembly, Council of Ministers, etc. And the whole set is written... such responsibilities and what should be done in case it is, but Parliament is not able to deal with it. It's easier for him to give the task of reviewing it. It's a transfer of problems from Parliament to audit. So, I don't think there's any reason for this bill to be passed, the principles of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9230	Thank you. Dear Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9231	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, guests, thank you. First of all, I must express my surprise with some of the views made by Mrs. Majkić. As for all of you, I am sure, well known, and here I have tried to see it and learn, Mrs. Mikeic was the chairman of the Commission and I was reading the minutes and the stenograms from the meetings of that committee had her almost as a role model and a recommendation to continue working on the 'Revision Law and the Supplements of the Law on the Audit of Institutions', because it was Mrs. Majkić's long-term work on that commission and the continuous repetition of all this that we are talking about in the Bill proposal that was just the opposite of what she said today. It would take me a long time to quote the minutes from the Commission's meetings, to quote to you the minutes from the last review of the audit report in this same Parliamentary Assembly when we heard Mrs Majkić loudly calling for an impact review. Exactly what we're talking about here. 11 So, the two things that are said in the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of Institutions in BiH, which are clearly facing huge resistance, are what is called responsibility and what is called sanctions. Responsibility and sanctions are the most frightening possible words that can be said in the debate on any problem in BiH, as well as in this. At first, I forgot to thank Mr. Šega and Mrs. Deputys that they are present today, although I must say that I see no reason why we delayed the plea last time, because the first reading does not matter the presence of the implementer. But I'm glad it was done because I have information, and I'm sure you know everyone else, that our proposal has initiated great activities in the Audit Office, the arrival of Swedish consultants who have also considered this proposal, which I am also pleased to see. So, we have obviously encouraged the Office for Auditing this proposal to finally start dealing with what is being done since, as Mrs. Majkić said in 2006. So, Mrs. Majkić, how can we be at the beginning if we do it for 10 years with consultants from Sweden and since 2006 we have been talking about impact review? The pace in BiH is absolutely unacceptable. At the Commission's meeting, which unanimously supported the principles of the Amendments and Supplements Bill, I also asked the present lady's deputy Mr. Šega: When will we be in a position to have the capacity and personnel we need? When are we going to start doing an impact review that is also in the country where our primary audit consultants come from? So I don't believe that in Sweden someone can say that they won't do an impact review. And, Mrs. Majkić, just to break your mistrust. You say experience, knowledge, non-disclosure of matter. Like you and the representatives of my party also have advisors, consultants and experts who work with whom we are working to prepare everything we say in this Parliamentary Assembly, so that I know very well, Mrs Majkić, that in Article 14 of the existing law we have the right to review or examine the impact of a particular aspect of the operations of a whole or part of the institution, programme or activity in terms of economics, efficiency and efficiency with which the institution uses its resources and report it in a manner set out in Article 16 of this Act. But that's not happening. And that is what we want to achieve: that the Parliamentary Assembly can now ask, no, we want the Parliamentary Assembly to ask for certain audits to be carried out that will guarantee to BiH citizens that their funds are being spent in a way that will contribute to the improvement of the quality of life of those who also allocate those funds. I would also like to say that my pleasure was at the Commission's meeting to point out that the Audit Office is one of the most important offices we have and that their work is what allows BiH citizens to know as much as possible what is happening in this area, but that it is absolutely insufficient. As far as the proposal is concerned, it is an improvement of the current Article 16 so that citizens are not damaged by the services of the Authority of the Administration, if the sanctions so far have caused the failure to carry out activities for some sanctioned institutions. In particular, I would like to note that sanctioning and determining responsibility is not related to the opinion of the auditors, but to the audit findings which are the facts, and that the auditors remain completely free of professional evaluation and giving an opinion without any consensus that would endanger the independence of the audit ruling. This is to strengthen the role of Parliament which plays a role and the obligation to launch corrective measures. They are not driven by auditors 12, which fully protects their independence in this context, they just continue their business of recording bad business institutions that are repeated. As far as the impact review is concerned, it is quite clear to us as well as to the proposings and those working on this proposal, that our current demands may be maximum. But I will also ask and remind Mr Šega and the members of the Office that there are numerous attempts to reach a consultation with them and to exchange any views on the possibilities and opportunities of the Office and when the Office will be in a position to respond to what is required by the Amendments and Supplements Bill – we have not achieved cooperation. Even at the Commission's meeting to discuss this proposal, the office did not have any adequate proposals on how this cooperation can be realised, in order and in the interest of the citizens of BiH. Proposers remain open, absolutely, in the next phase, the amendment phase, with the cooperation of the Office and the Parliamentary Assembly, to come up with satisfactory solutions for both the Office and the citizens of BiH and the real ones according to the Office's assessment, so according to what the Office will deliver as its development programme and opportunities, to come up with realistic times when BiH citizens will receive an audit of the impact of institutions that will tell us that this is done by law and for what needs BiH citizens' resources are spent. The principles of the law have been unanimously adopted by the Commission responsible for finance and the budget at the session where it also presented its opinion to the Office for Audit, also presented in full capacity to the Deputy and Head of Legal Service of the Office. The bill only requires insight into the effectiveness of institutions for which we do not have the resources so far. We are asking for the precision of sanctions for the repeater's budget spreaders, we are asking for the identification of the responsibility of the executives in the wasteful institutions and shifts, as the ultimate measure, in the long-term deafening of the auditor's recommendation and the Parliament's warnings. In short, I repeat, we insist on responsibilities for waste and bad business. It must exist, because it is public money that the citizens have entrusted to the institutions of the government to perform services for their and general welfare. And I call on the Office for Audit to present in dialogue with the BiH Parliamentary Assembly the real terms and opportunities in which BiH will get what is also in Sweden, the country of consultants, something that is meant to be – an impact review. And once again, I want to thank Mrs. Majkić for his inspiration. You were really inspired by your commitment to make such changes and supplementals finally stand before the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and bring quantity and quality in what we do. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9232	Thank you. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9233	Thank you very much, Chairman. So, I don't think there's another case after me that has insisted so much on responsibility for the situation according to BiH institutions' financial reports. So I think I was one of the few MPs who read all 70 reports. And when I asked for your support to strengthen 13 responsibilities to place two reports per session, not 70 at once, I didn't get your support. That responsibility was not important to you at the time. And the real situation could only be determined that way. That's one thing. As far as my relationship with that responsibility is concerned, I'm ready today to work an institution by institution. We will make significant savings and this proposal, which is now going to reduce the financial resources for all institutions for their salaries. Perhaps we could pass without giving, not reducing money to the State Border Police or the SIPA to the expense of institutions that sleep a deep sleep but, colleagues, you weren't prepared to accept it. I didn't even have the support of the legislator of this law. As for the support of the Swedish office, they've been working since 2000, but it's been a financial audit work. The impact review has started since 2006, shyly and slowly teaching the job, and we are learning this hard work. And we have few people we've been through, so we're not able to do 20 reports. Because being quick to do a job like this means that the office makes the wrong conclusions, which means we make the wrong decisions. So that's why it's not good. And more what I'd like to say. When we want Parliament behind increased responsibility, it will replace the first institution manager who does not do his job properly. I am sure, I spoke at a session, that you could buy from the state money of the red Porsche, to bring him here in front of the institution building and say 'I did it from the state money', and that Parliament would still sleep the dream that sleeps. So when we're ready to face that responsibility, then it won't be and this problem, this law, solves; even if we adopted it, nothing would change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9234	Thank you. Let's move on. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9235	Here, I'll do it very briefly. So I don't believe that either the motionor or anyone in this room actually has a dilemma of the needs and capacities and competences of the Audit Office, so we're all absolutely on the line of support for this institution. Some of us have been working on it for 10 years, etc. However, after six years of application of a law, including the Law on Audit, there is no reason, on the contrary, not to analyse its effect and to see what practice and what we achieve, etc. I also understood the promoter in this way, so he analyzed the effects of the application of this law and came to some knowledge and suggested them to us here. They are of such nature, in my opinion, that they deserve to go through the first reading and talk; the caller himself and the Audit Office and others, in the second stage through the amendments, are potentially upgrading this proposal. But for me, he's absolutely acceptable for two or three reasons. So it's true that the law was designed primarily in a preventive function. However, that prevention has resulted in zero in these six years. Niko of that prevention was afraid but we have repeaters, we have constantly, constantly, so to speak, bringing this Parliament into a very unpleasant situation. Therefore, good European practices do not exist in BiH, which is called on by the Audit Office and 14 Swedish consultants to give an opinion on these amendments and the addition of the law. We have bad Balkan practices. Therefore, we must start from that fact, of course, and try to build good European practice, build people's awareness that the public word or word in the review report that negative people warns, makes people fix it, etc. It's not happening with us. Therefore, it must also resort to some repressive measures. When it comes to impact review, of course we all agree, here is this report that we have received, as the Office of Audit says, on the subject of housing projects, etc., says how important this revision is, and anything that anyone has read this report could see, learn, learn and be useful for the future. However, this scope that is spoken of here, you will see from this project, from this topic of housing reconstruction, reconstruction of the housing fund, etc., that it was two samples only. It wasn't everyone, I don't know how many, 25 projects, etc., but two programs were being done, two sampling programs were being checked, so it doesn't have to be understood that it's going to be too big a job now. There will be a pattern system, etc. So in the end, here's the conclusion, I think there was a reason and reason to go with this initiative and I don't think it should be rejected and that it should be supported, let it live and continue the debate in the amendment phase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9236	Dear Ismeta Dervoz, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I noticed one look at Mr. Šega and his pronouns on my findings... that they were sent to consult, discuss and participate in the bill of this law, so, here, I'll just remind them: 28.10. In 2011, the last file was sent to you, saying exactly: 'I do not wish to endanger the independence of the BiH Audit Office, your work, indeed treating you as guardians of state money, i.e. The citizens' money, we wanted first of all to point out the unquestionable problems facing the revision of state institutions, which is why all BiH citizens eventually suffer. We call on you this way, we ask for a more precise opinion on the proposed amendments and additions to this law or on a proposal for an alternative legal solution, if you consider that problems can be overcome without intervention in the text of this law." And Mrs. Majkić, I just said I wouldn't quote, but this is something that is very, very important. At a meeting of the Finance and Budget Commission on 7 July 2011, you said, following the presentation of the Office for Audit, you highlighted the problem of non-compliance between the budget and the work plan of the budgetary institutions, the lack of information on what was realized from existing work plans, and the lack of a broader impact review. You asked a sharp question: "Why does the BiH Audit Office keep running away from the impact review?" You also said in the 11th month of 2011, by discussing the implementation of the budget, that you consider it worrying about the situation in institutions that spend 20 to 40% of their approved budget. It is necessary to examine the work of the institution, to establish the reasons for their ineffectiveness in order to account for their inadequacies. You also said there is a difference between the audit reports working at BiH level, as they are significantly different in RS, as there is no revision of the effects of BiH institutions as it is done in RS. 15 Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9238	Thank you. Dear Member Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. Well, look, I did vote on the Finance Commission and the budget to amend and supplement this bill, but I had a dilemma about whether I should do it. Well, considering that there's a second reading ahead and that certain things can be changed, maybe it was a commitment to me. But now that I'm listening to all this, I may have somehow removed that dilemma. Here, to bring in a little parliamentary life for all of us here, let's say, MPs who have been in several terms here and MPs who have just come to remind and give information to each other, how we as the Parliamentary Assembly have done so far when it comes to the analysis of audit reports. That's the point of the problem. So, not entering the law Mrs. Dervos suggested, so there's nothing controversial about me, so it's not like that. But if we already have something in practice, and it hasn't been recognized before because it wasn't here, then it can bring some dilemma. Parliament's role in this analysis of the audit reports is important to me, i.e. in the further activities that Parliament needs to take. We have so far had the opportunity in the Revision Act to say in Article 16, 'Parliament will, on the basis of audit opinions, express certain corrective measures' etc. Here, I'll say that we've been doing it all these years and we've been proposing budget cuts and certain corrective measures. But we sent it all to the Council of Ministers to get it back on track, right? Has the Council of Ministers now reached all of the conclusions that we, as Parliament, had, on the basis of the summary opinion we had by the Finance and Budget Commission, so we have translated into the conclusion of Parliament, we can now think about it. I don't think so. However, there are certain specificities. Here, I know that we are concrete, I will remind us, because of some audit opinion on the poor spending of funds in the Ministry of Security, we reduced 20% of the budget of the Ministry of Security, and then there was an emergency activity of the Ministry of Security, the visas of their specific business they were dealing with, and they needed that 20%, and then those funds were redistributed, etc. It's kind of an excuse for me, isn't it? So we can't, I mean, we can't look at it that rough. That is why there is a Parliament that, on the basis of what the auditory house determines, it means to me, through certain conclusions that we make in Parliament, we should now just follow that realization. And I think that's where Parliament failed. Let us, as Parliament's Assembly, strive for the next period, if we make certain conclusions here that we forward to the Council of Ministers, to monitor their implementation. If we don't do it, we're free of what's going to be written here. What I'm saying is that what Mrs. Dervoz has proposed is already the activity of both this commission and Parliament. As for the response to the audit opinions of the institutions that have been audited, we have had that before. On the basis of them, we eventually gave and accepted or did not accept audit opinions or create these conclusions in Parliament. If an institution... had 10 errors, 16 so now they are told 'give it within a certain time period until the analysis of your opinion fix these things or say why you can't do it at a given time', so we had that too. So that's not a newspaper either. All of this came from an existing legal solution. As far as this impact review is concerned, there's a lot of talk about it, I wouldn't. She's needed and it's not controversial. The problem may be to see what the office's capacity for review is in the sense that at a given time it can cover a number of cases and whether it can carry out a review of all these institutions within four years. I think the question of the deadline is questionable, and here it is, so I thought that through some amendment approach it might suggest in a different way. But the impact review is on and I think it's going to be one swing. Here, today we're also going to consider one impact review here. We've been looking at the other one recently, but I'd like to see what we've done, right now through the budget, when it comes to first impact review. Are the recognised institutions that are based there in some areas, how much it is paid, etc.? That's the first audit we had. So we just kind of drive it away from ourselves to the Council of Ministers and then we don't have any feedback. I don't think this legal solution is going to force anyone in a different way. And on the other hand, I'm also talking about how we've kind of been considering it. I am defending the work of the Parliamentary Assembly so far in this way, because I am talking about the things we have really done, and they are now in Mrs Dervoz's proposal. And it's nothing controversial, I'm saying, it's also in the imperative, but that's why it's a space for discussion and, look, we'll talk. There's one essential thing I want to mention here. Someone just mentioned the fines. Here I will remind us that we, by amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of institutions in Article 3, have already defined a certain legal... measure, is it, in the event that the competent court confirms the indictments against the executives for fraud for which the manager was responsible to the institution, the institution manager will put his mandate out of force, etc., etc. So what the audit report on the website is near the prosecution, later heading towards the judiciary, means the court can run when you read an activity report. So we have one dispersion of the possibility that those responsible for the work of certain institutions should be punished if they have done something wrong. But we don't need to, what the fundamental discussion has been saying here, to infiltrate the independence or jurisdiction of the Audit Office. And one more thing for me, the essential thing here is not envisaged how and how to continue to keep harmonisation with legal solutions in entities and Brcko District. So now that harmonisation we have, I don't think we should jeopardize it this way, because then the assumption is, then we don't know, here or we don't know what the time period is to make this harmonisation through this current change further through these entity laws. As an MP in front of the U.S.A., I'll think about it, my club that I belong to, too, until the final decision is made. But through this discussion, I wanted to remind all of us once again of the work of the Parliamentary Assembly in the upcoming audit reports on the opportunities we have and in the existing legislative solution and in some way to determine whether we want this harmonisation, which is present when it comes to the laws on audits in the state and entities, to violate it in this way or we will seek some other solution. Thank you. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9240	I thank Ambassador Sokolović. The word has Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9241	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, media representatives, I welcome you all together. By estimating the obligations that our colleagues and colleagues have, I will not take much time, but I would like to say a word or two about this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions, whose proposals are colleagues from the SBB Club. First of all, I want to say that I think that this is a very good initiative, that it has been submitted at the right time, because it seems that when it comes to this area and all the other areas in BiH that our time has been up long ago and we can no longer expect evolution, we can no longer wait for 10 or more years to pass so that some state institution is stalking some business, to create personnel to do this job, etc. I think we're in a situation where we either have to do a job that we're in charge of or we have to say we can't, we don't want to do it, etc. As far as this proposal is concerned, I believe it strengthens Parliament's role in this story. I also believe that the proposed solutions help auditors and keep their independence which is and should be unquestionable when it comes to the area we are talking about. I think it is high time we started to think about proposals and initiatives in the way that they are proposed, and not who is proposing them, and in that sense there should be a little more understanding for all those who are initiating certain discussions in this House. Because, I repeat, it is high time to open essential issues in BiH, and one of the essential issues is the spending of taxpayers' money. It is not true that there is not enough money in BiH, there is money, but that money is not spent as it should be spent and therefore we have a situation that we are constantly missing something. Therefore, a legislative solution which specifies the revision of the impact that obliges institutions that use taxpayers' funds to say why they act or do not act on the findings of the auditors, a solution which will oblige us as legislators in this Parliament to act and, ultimately, a solution which provides for certain sanctions for non-compliance with the legal rules, our recommendations, etc. I think that this is a good solution and that it is a good basis for discussion, and today's debate in Parliament shows it. And what I expect below, I hope that this legislative solution will receive Parliament's support, what I expect in the continuation of this act's life is one better communication between the Office for Auditing, the Proposer, and also here within the Commission and Parliament, and all with the aim of getting to a better and more quality solution, taking care of what we are tasked with and making sure that we do not endanger the Office for Auditing which is doing our job, but somehow, as experiences show, that story remains unfinished. A quality review is done, a quality debate takes place, but people who do not have a threat to some sanctions simply do not act. I also expect that when it comes to impact review, etc., it would be interesting for the Parliamentary Assembly to pass through in this impact review. It'd be interesting to see that, too. Thank you very much. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9242	Thank you. The word has Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9243	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, distinguished guests, here, I will try to be brief given the time... I want to welcome the initiative of our distinguished MPs, from one aspect, not only do I do the analysis of the law and, here, as one of the youngest representatives among you, somehow I find it very difficult to accept that what comes from a position that does not accept the opposition and vice versa. I think we need to be at the level of our obligation, at one of the quality heights that every Parliament must have, including this, and to go towards the improvement of the system. The Revision Act is a subtle, complex law and I would say that what audits do is mirror that degree of transparency and efficiency that every society achieves, so, is, and what we are responsible for and we must always strive to achieve that goal, and here through those audit findings we must open up guidelines in which direction it goes. What I often cannot accept, and working as a minister for many years, is that one climate was created here, one relationship: us and them. On the one hand, I don't know, executive power, on the other hand, audits, on the third hand, Parliament. I don't accept such an approach, I think we're all on the same assignment and we have to pursue the same goal to create a perfect, transparent system that will include us where we want to, i.e.. in the alliance of European countries. What I have followed through this work is often asked for responsibility only from the executive authority, directors, ministers, etc., and often the situation in life is quite different. They are not responsible for many things that often time and revisions in their findings put together minor poets. So when they give their findings a little bit of this way, then, of course, whoever wants to politicize takes advantage of those findings, that attitude, that sentence or some word, and then tomorrow it goes under one working titled 'Crime Fight'. It doesn't mean everything that the review has found that it's a crime, don't God Bog I want to protect any crime, but it has its own way, its own process, and we have institutions that have to do it and process it. And here, in front of everyone, I'm free to say that I was making a statement in front of the SIPA, and I'm proud to say that, and I think they learned something from me, not that I was scared, but that, God Bog, it was something, something that was criminal. I think it's the right relationship, the right relationship and the right path. As far as this part of the sanctioning of institutions is concerned, that's what I felt. Well, my colleague Salko said, here, he mentioned the Ministry of Justice, so we cut his budget 20%, and we all know that for the execution of penalties that are being resolved, whether, through the BiH institutions, they are being executed at entity level, that we have to pay these institutions, and when we have reduced 20% we have not fulfilled our obligation, we have just produced new tight interest that we are likely to have to pay. So it's one very wrong approach and one method that we can't use as such. I also believe that the Office for Audition should not be and should not be any sanctioning institution and do not give Bog humanization. There were, I don't know, remarks that when you have a negative opinion or something like that, etc. Well, then you can't apply later, and you can't be a candidate on the list, so I'm 19, and I don't think that's good. ... give their findings, and whoever did, what can't be done, there are other regulations and other laws and through them should be sanctioned. As far as impact review is concerned, I think that, we are aware, we are following in the environment that we are doing an impact review and our law, as we have heard, already has a part of the mode of impact revision from certain aspects, and this has already been practiced in a good way. But I don't think we go one step further and we don't analyze ourselves. Now I'm going to be what, is it, a little bit self-critical, because I'm in Parliament too, so here we all are. He mentioned someone here was renting space. How do we measure the impact assessment when it's a social category for me? The impact review is in fact for me in the democratic elections. That's where we get the review right, whether we're done or not. It's true that we pay for spaces and huge numbers for spaces, but I also know that as a minister every time in the budget, I've asked for 100, 150 million marks to buy spaces and even to be in debt so we don't pay rent. And you remember when I was talking about the peasant and the tractor, so if he has to pay for 10 years for whoever's plowing his land, then he goes to the bank and buys a tractor, and in 10 years he's got his own tractor back, and for the next 30 years he's got his own tractor. Well, we could have done the same with the rent of space, but he asked counterpart Belkić where our budget is, with which to build. Gentlemen, we're going to be paying the rent in this country for a long time, and we're going to have a hard time measuring the impact review. If someone is to be sought as guilty, not here amongst us, or divided into camps, then I don't think we're going to reach our goal. We're all on the same assignment, and we have to act like one. And I am not in favour of rejecting this proposal, and I am not in favour of accepting it in such a variant, but I suggest that just as it was when the law was passed, that all those who participated in this law be reunited, of course, including parliamentary commissions that touch this area and if they want a respected representative to join it, then I think it is one time to pass this law and then offer potentially quality solutions. And that's the solution, not just for this law, but for all the laws that normally need to be developed, here's when it's estimated that it's time for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9244	I thank Mr. Vrankić. Dear MP Šefik Džaferović has applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9245	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to waste a word on the importance of the revision of BiH institutions and what importance we have so far given to this topic whenever we have discussed it in the period since 2000, when the revision has actually been established so far, and what problems we have encountered. I, too, welcome Parliament's efforts, and among other things, and my colleague Dervoz' proposal to discuss this matter in order to improve this area. What worries me about all of this, not getting into the reasons why it didn't happen, is the fact that there wasn't anything more serious or we could say no co-operation and co-operation between the Office of Audition and the Proposer. And right away, let me say in the conclusion of my discussion that, when it comes to the revision, I will not support any solution that is not the result of the agreement between the Audit Office and any promoter. This is such an area and such matter, which, on the one hand, allows the proposings to think about how the institution should function better and propose appropriate solutions and, on the other hand, the responsibility of the Office for Auditing against everything that 20 audits have meant so far in BiH and what it will mean to be responsible for treating these proposals and, of course, by respecting the standards on which our audit is based, then to make a statement on these proposals and to accept what is acceptable for us in BiH. Don't forget that this isn't a Bosnian-Herzegovina review exclusively, this is a worldwide review, because it's established on world standards and these standards here must be respected in BiH and they are an integral part of this law, our law. In this context, I call upon the motionary, Mrs. Dervoz, and the Audit Office to sit down and find a common solution to see if it's possible to take a step forward. If it is possible to see which step it is, because it is free to pass the law unless we can enforce that law or if that law will present problems in practice. You see, our audit system is set up so that the law knows three types of audits: the financial audit that is elaborated, the impact audit that it states only in one member and does not discuss, and it is in turn in BiH, as far as I know, and other specific audits; and it obliges the existing law annually, requires an annual review of the Presidency, the Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Ministers and other budgetary institutions at BiH level, so is at the level of the entity and the Brcko District of BiH because the laws are harmonised. As regards other audits, therefore, as regards the financial audit of another type of law, it does not make such an obligation every year to audit the impact, and it does not make any obligations in the case of annual proceedings, but rather simply a free assessment of the Office for Audit. And I'm saying this just to say that our audit offices, so I'm not just talking about the BiH Institution Audit Office right now, but also about the entity and Brcko District, they're conjectured, so human beings are trained at this point to carry out this level of audit that's listed here. By law, it is proposed, and I would ask colleague Dervos to take a look at, say, the provisions of Article 11 of the original text of this law which speaks of financial audit, Article 14, which speaks of this impact review, are proposed to amend Article 14 and it is said that the impact review of the position (1) of this member is mandatory for all institutions under Article 11. The law, at least once in four years. Therefore, an impact review is proposed to become mandatory for all institutions referred to in Article 11 and... is not treated at all with amendments to Article 11, and then it would remain that the audit, the financial audit, should be mandatory for some of these institutions, for some not to be mandatory, and that the impact review should be mandatory every four years. These two things must be coordinated and looked at the capacities of these institutions. Furthermore, what is very important in this whole thing is that all the solutions that we adopt here, I am not going to talk now about proposals for a change of Article 16 which is, in fact, the essence, so adding this Article 16a) which is essentially the essence and which is trying to introduce, in the way that a colleague thinks, responsibility in this area or responsibility for the consequences of negative findings. We've talked about it many times before here. So, not getting into it, I want to say that this law must ensure that it is harmonised with entity laws and with the Brcko District of BiH law. Without it, I will not support any amendments to this law, because today in BiH we have this area fully harmonised. That's why I'm proposing, we're going to make a decision at the club, of course, how we're going to treat this proposal in the first reading, it's going to be a club decision, but what I want to say is that I'd like the Proposer and the Audit Office to sit together, to analyse every solution, I've just just now pointed out, let's say, one contradiction regarding the obligation to prescribe and the absence of a commitment to financial audit, to find common solutions, and then I'm ready to vote for what is the common position of the promoter and the Office for Audition, and I don't doubt at all the good intentions and the Proposor and the Audit Office to improve the situation in this area. That's it, thank you. 21
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9246	I thank Mr. Džaferović. The word has been given by Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9247	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words very briefly. This issue is being withdrawn in this parliament very often on various grounds. But it seems to me that the effects of our discussions have not so far come to terms, that is, no results, and then the question arises whether this is systemically well solved. Of course, I have no objection, my impression is that the audit service is doing well and that these are rare institutions, from new institutions, which work well and give certain results. But the question arises: Do other authorities, who traditionally have their own style, methods of work, follow this ministry? The first question is the relationship between the parliamentary and the executive authorities. This is where we said we're all the same, but we're not all the same, there's a division of power, where one government controls the other. Because if that were the case, that authority would be very bad. Parliament has in its hands appropriate mechanisms. So there are organisational mechanisms, which will say that it can also regulate the laws and laws of this issue. Secondly, it has personal powers, so it appoints the main people in this area and, of course, it has financial powers. So Parliament has very important powers when it comes to executive power. The question arises whether the executive power, and the executive authority... in the Council of Ministers here, has received results and whether the Council of Ministers, at least at this time that I am present here, has disobeyed many of our demands. So, there's not much of this Parliament's position being tangled here, and even today, we've been discussing: the director of the Regulatory Agency is practically actuating the views of this Parliament. So the question is, how do we get back, how do we restore authority to this House? How to act and really make decisions to execute those decisions, and there is no such thing. So for me, this is quite a system issue and we are in a position, we have a chance to resolve the relationship between Parliament and the executive authority. Finally, the executive authority should withdraw certain consequences when it does not carry out what Parliament says, namely to make certain decisions or does not adhere to the law. Then you will vidjeti that the executive power will be different from Parliament. And we have in the hands of the mechanisms, we can make it more difficult by means of legal regulations, is it, why not, and other mechanisms that I mentioned? There's a lot of talk about renting space here, buying cars, I think it's an alarming question. I'm even saying that it's a shameful question of this Parliament, not just this Parliament, not just this one, so someone, some director of an administrative organization, can't remember to take a car of 100,000 marks. Why are we sitting here, and why we're even paid for it, the question arises, when we can limit it by regulations in this regard. - Hired space?- I'm sorry. Well, they're famous machinations, those birds on the branch know how to do it and why to do it. We can stop that one if we want. But what's the bottom line that matters, what's the most important, what's the point of things? The bottom line is, gentlemen, there's no political will in this country, there's no political will on substance issues, and these are these issues, because it's about the budget, the use of budget funds. If there were political will, if the leading political parties said 'we are going seriously and sharply to fight organised crime and corruption', that would have happened in this country. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9248	I thank Mr. Kunić. The word has been given by the honourable MP Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9249	I thank you, Mr. President. Even though I called earlier, something about these devices isn't right, but it doesn't matter. First of all, I welcome you all together. We have, over the past year and a few days, left the most activity in this commission on these audit reports. And we all agreed that certain measures must be taken against those who often break and break it. In this, perhaps one of the greatest critics was Mrs. Majkić, and all of us were looking for a way to come to us if nothing at least made fun of those who came before us for a reference, which is why they made certain failures. And believe me, I have to mention that again, except for a few of those directors who were out of the 17 institutions we've been performing, only some of the ladies felt uncomfortable and said that these things wouldn't be repeated to them unlike others who said they were doing everything in accordance with the law. Therefore, the initiative launched is in the best interest and I fully accept that initiatives should go on about greater responsibility for the use of budgetary resources. But I have to say, and no one here has said, I expected that... the board members would inform their clubs that we had a meeting with experts from Sweden this morning at 9.30, who literally told us that by following us during this period where they worked that the audit institution was a regional leader, that there was more audit and audit of the effects than in other countries and that, as far as they were concerned as consultants, they could simply withdraw that this institution was so trained that they could do these jobs. And they have expressed their concern that we are going to change in this audit, and they are particularly concerned that no compliance with the Office of Audit has been carried out. I voted, to be clear, on the Commission for this activity, that this law is going into procedure, but I also expressed my conviction then, and I felt that things that were regulated by other laws should not be put here, these are primarily criminal provisions. And secondly, and then I said it was impossible to audit institutions, the institution's impact review is not done, but processes and projects. Therefore, if we were to let the institution's impact review be done, we wouldn't get anything, but projects should be done. And in particular, nowhere in the world has it been reported that the revision is due in what time period and how much revision will be carried out,...the impact review. That's one of the reasons why they begged us this morning and warned us not to. He says that this, the second reason that we would be completely contrary to the international standards of independence... that are defined in international regulations. A complete discrepancy would be and they believe that such a bill should not be accepted. This, they say, would completely compromise their independence and we would not achieve the effects that the promoter himself wanted. I think we have enough legal acts and laws to sanction those... who don't behave in accordance with the law. But I also agree with Mr. Honorable Representative Bevanda, who says, "Let's not immediately identify a negative report or a review report with crime." It's not about crime, it's about non-compliance with certain regulations, but I'm just so that all those who have certain measures, 23 (?) No microphone turned on (and Vrankić, I apologize, I apologize, and it was almost, well, about me, well, excuse the one again), according to that, I also then expressed my suspicion that in this way it could be determined in which institutions and the time period in which the audit is carried out and I believe that any of the laws and this one must always go through the procedure of the institution to which it applies. Because in any case... we're all here together to make as good a situation as possible in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9251	Thank you. The word has an honourable MP, Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9252	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In any case, here is the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions by Ismeta Dervoz and the SBB Representatives Club deserve great attention and debate in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It is obvious that the right theme was also affected after a series of meetings of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and above all, whether it is the story of the audit reports for the past year. We, my colleague, must have recognized the problem, and here I see all my fellow MPs saying there's a problem, if we do a good analysis, and we didn't do it for sure, and we should have, the audit reports that are done, so for 2009, and 2010, so we compare them a little bit, and we'll see that nothing happened, but that our Audit Office, headed by Mr. Šegom, did a proper and professional job, issued a report to someone. If we watch so little from the medical point of view that lab when it issues a professional finding and sends it to someone, someone needs to find and react, assess the condition, even if we see there it's negative, some need to base this negative condition and act, or prescribe therapy and watch the effect of this therapy. It seems to me that exactly in this direction my colleague has been thinking, so in this article of the law, the amended law that suggests and where certain measures are being provided for responsible persons who are making long-term failures, I might not be comparing them as mentioned here – the reduction of the budget by 10, and in the second year by 30% on some items, so the possible punishment by the replacement of a person or money, but first the person should be punished, means not that it is crime, although we have audit reports, is whether, the audit reports that have earned the attention of the BiH Prosecutor's Office. And I say, here and after a series of these audit reports, it seems to me that, according to them, the BiH Prosecutor's Office did not file any charges or possibly asked the D.A.'s Office to do a detailed analysis of the work or business of a particular institution. So that's not what happened. So, we just figure it out from year to year, we just have findings that something happened. Are we going to fix it or not, or are we asking someone to fix it or not? We are each day the eyewitnesses of different audit reports, I once presented the data here, and we don't know how many employees we have, it depends on; here we are now to ask how many employees we have, we'd get again different numbers that and how they measure up, I don't know, from the audit reports. Here, today I'm a little bit 24 looking at the answers to my fellow MPs' questions here next to me, and I've found that our advisors have different salaries in our institutions. I don't know, we've got four advisors somewhere, so they've got 75,000 marks, and we've got five advisors in the second ministry, and they've got 68 grand. Well, I don't know what we're counting on, but lately we've got current laws on funding and wages and fees. So, really, when we get a different answer, it means the answers to these questions, these answers are so confusing, I don't know, depending on what time or season we've asked them, so what way they're going to answer it, and some of them don't even do it, and they don't even want to send us any answer. In any case, this initiative by the Club of Representatives, especially colleagues Dervoz, deserves attention and I think there are serious problems here in terms of both impact review and... financial audit of BiH institutions and that we need to improve the existing law. I will not say that something cannot be done here, but in any case it is not necessary to give up, this is a good basis to bring a good amended and updated Law on the revision of BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9253	I thank Mr. Jurišić. The word is Mr. Slavko Jovičić, and I'd like to call if there is anyone else who would like to discuss it immediately.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9254	Honorable chairman, honored guests, respected members of the Council of Ministers who never have you, but at least hear you. So, any initiative, especially when it's in the first reading, I support a debate. But we're masters that right on the agenda we have institutions that might work best for us. Well, Mrs. Majkić said, 70 audits are coming to us, so I never asked or was I interested in whether anyone reads or doesn't read it, I've been interested in looking at it, I read it, I've been coming here to Parliament, I've been saying it since 2006. We completely reverse everything that we should maybe be the strongest, the most important thing to do, we get caught up in what works best, so here's the debate. Thank you, gentlemen auditors, but what good did they all do for years, wrote extraordinary reports, when I had one three or four sessions earlier, five sessions, kept repeating when I didn't see here in the first row those responsible to ask them what they had done that audit warned them that they were spending money. So what Professor Kunić was saying, how they bought cars. So what did everyone say? And will anyone answer, is there any of these people? So then, let me remind you, since everything here is forgotten, so I've never seen anyone with handcuffs leave Parliament or BiH institutions, on their hands, bring him to SIPA. Well, that case should come out in public and celebrate, not this, if they've set up a lease somewhere. Well, today I've asked in writing a parliamentary question that has five questions. Once more definitely to know the number of employees. Once more definitely to know where these institutions are sitting. Give me once definitely what it's like to rent these institutions. Give it once definitely whether we as Parliament have ever reduced anyone's budget to one mark. We didn't. Let's see once, to show the impotence of this House, and constantly something executive, legislative, I don't know either. And I support my colleague, Vrankić, we don't need to share. But we're divided when I have no one to ask 25 what's key, not to ask the auditors, and I got everything from them, which I'm going to ask them more. All men have done the right thing and I always ask them to tell if anyone is putting pressure on you. And somewhere in public there were some pressures like someone. I think you're an independent organization that's allowed and that you're independent, and today I hear in every discussion that you should be an independent institution. Oh, you're independent. We're not asking you to do anything illegal either, but to do what you did and to do what you did. And they always express their gratitude. And then what happens? They held a debate in the first, second, third, none, hundred readings, one year, two, spent three, four, one term. No Niko is responsible for anything. No Niko alive, I've ever seen information from anyone to say, well, Mr. Director of the Agency, you bought a 96,000-marked car, you took 12 workers without a competition, and I don't know who it is, and that question went away today, 'how busy is it?', which says colleague Jurišić, and got different data. So up then, when you pass, you see that digital clock that's constantly ticking, the money's being spent, and then they come, of course I don't criticise them, these NGOs, say those thieves in Parliament are just spending and making money. Guys, let's put more than one responsibility on the agenda sometime. And I really don't want to talk about this stuff any more when I'm discussing it, if it's not the prosecutor here, the President of the Court, the Director of the Border Police, the Director of the Intelligence Agency, the Director, those are our topics, people, and not a revision of what sent me a report that's correct. And every time we make a statement about him, and we give praises, we say it's great. And what happens? Okay, and we read, mastered some new material, appeared tomorrow in the press: debated parliamentarians, passed through Parliament 70 reports, 69, it doesn't matter, someone remembered. And no one alive to answer. Well, if I really knew I was guilty, I'd file a criminal charges against myself. But I've put up with these, but it's no use. What's the use? I wore it myself, I wasn't waiting for an audit, I was filing criminal charges against those responsible for the money spent. Well, I don't have the same indicators as they had, in 2009 I actually have, in 2010, when there wasn't a budget supposed to be, and they were spending money, and lucky there was Mr. Vrankić so he didn't let it get too bad, in 2012, here's the budget, so let me say, agency director, you spent money, and you never came to work, man, you don't know where your rooms are! Here's what you don't have in the budget right now and let's cut you 50%. Any such suggestions? And you intend to spend more of this review and these auditors who work honestly, we spend our days and days on hearings in committees, here, and never anything. Give one topic: responsibility to all, responsibility to us, each, if necessary individually. The responsibility of these left ones, which they never sit. The responsibility of those on the right, which they drag to their side and spend and take where they get, because they know they'll never answer. Well, people, it's the easiest position for you to have when you know that you're going to have a debate in Parliament and that the Nightingale is going to come forward, whatever he's saying is important, and he's only going to make a few colleagues laugh there, as they laugh, or I don't know the public, look for some responsibility, and I'm going to take the car of the state tomorrow, and I'm going to go to the weddings because nobody can do anything to me. Well, do we have those options? We don't. Let's once acknowledge Parliament's impotence that we are not capable of being thieves, the only expression that is real, don't like the expressions of corruption here, and I don't know what, that we can't stop thieves from doing it. And the state has all the machanisms, but we don't use them, because there are no ones in the front row, which I just listed, so I can ask them this, not ask the auditors. What do I have to ask them when people are doing the right thing? And the more time I spend on this, when I'm six years old, I repeat the same things. And good colleague Dervos did, they need a lot of people to look at a little stenograms of what we used to do and what was said here. This initiative didn't appear by coming to me today. Since 2006, I have spent every session practically asking these questions, or through the agenda point, which is this, to discuss either through parliamentary issues or by seeking responsibility. And in those six years, not a single one, here's how I'm gonna lift my finger, not one of them was responsible for anything, but for nothing. And so, today 26, we're gonna waste our time again, so we're gonna look for something. From who? Of these people who work honestly, I repeat, I'm bored, and they're gonna think someone's gonna praise them for no reason, they're doing honest people, but what's next is done. Now, that's the key question. Next, below the line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9255	On this display on the replica list, things change like hockey on ice, but we're going to have a debate. The word has an Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9256	Dear Chairman, honourable MPs, well, as a representative of the Commission for Budget and Finance, I have several remarks to make regarding the addition of this law or this initiative which, in my opinion, is extremely positive. Why is it positive? It's positive because it's on the back of events that took place in previous mandates. The biggest advocates of introducing an impact review are now very concerned about whether the Audit Office has the capacity, strength or enough people to implement the proposed project. These same MPs said that the audit does not do its job quality and that it has a thousand audit problems. I was the one who, in some ways, calmed these relations and managed to calm these relations in the Audit Office, and that is why I am proud, because I believe that the audit is working extremely well, that the audit works very well, and I think that the initiatives to put the impact review into the legal category are a positive initiative. Why? Because after that revision, and today we will have one impact review on the table, you have very decadent and clear conclusions and resolution proposals, which are very helpful for us parliamentarians. Whether we're going to implement it, that's another thing, whether other institutions are going to implement it, that's the third thing. But here I see absolutely nothing that disturbs the structure and strength of the Office of Audit, which is extremely strong, which works extremely well, and the Director, and his deputy, and everyone else in the Office, and who do very honorably work their business. There's no problem with the Office's audit. The audit office is one institution that quality and we all agreed to do quality work. Here is the problem in an initiative that should, either through the amendment form, be through the discussion of the proposings and the Audit Office, says what conditions are needed to create ideal, let's say, ideal or semi-ideal conditions that our Audit Office deals with and audits the impact. For the first time I heard about the impact review and the importance of the impact review from Mrs. Majkić, and I read it a little bit and I see that it is very important. Much more important than the other audits we're talking about, 70 or 50, I don't know how much. All of a sudden, we're against that audit right now. We are opposed to legally creating a category that the impact review has some obligation. Whether it's going to be a four-year impact review for everything, it's probably unreal and I agree with that, but how it's going to be defined and who's going to solve it, I think we have an amendment form here, we have, in the extreme case of the promoter, we have for the Office of Audit that will say -- we're in no condition, given the existing capacities of human beings and each other, that we're dealing with it. I don't see what's wrong with these principles that we all unanimously adopted in the Budget and Finance Commission. What did the Swedish Office say? I think it's a simple kind of pressure, for me a funny kind of pressure, because people came and said – you should do it anyway. Well, we're parliamentarians, we're parliamentarians, we have the right to think for ourselves. But we also have the right to sit down and agree that the Office of Audit and our Proposer will work together. Is that a crime? This is about vanity. Someone suggested who shouldn't suggest? Whether it's position 27 or opposition, it's funny now. The initiative is very high quality, everyone was very supportive of it as soon as they read what it was about, in the background of the first initiatives by Mrs. Majkić. I thought Mrs. Majkić would support this initiative with two hands. She's taking care of the Audit Office now. I'm sorry, Mrs. Majkić, you're worried about how the Audit Office will function now. I don't agree with that. Therefore, I will support this initiative, the SBB Club will support this initiative, an extremely useful initiative because it has brought great attention to all MPs here, and as such has grounds to enter further debate. Is it real, it's an absolutely different thing, another pair of freaks, but I think it's real because the impact review we want to introduce as a legal obligation and a category. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9257	Thank you. Second replica, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9258	Mr. Kabil, I'm really sorry that you're identifying my disagreement with the proposed form, the principle on which this law is based, with my support for impact review. So I could never say anything like that. I was one of those who always said that impact review was insufficient, that it should be more represented, that we slowly adopt it, but to force them to do 20 impact audits a year, and their capacity to do one, so what would we do? What do we get by that? So my support will always go in terms of getting things settled, but the goodwill of this Parliament should be shown that they really want to start solving things on a financial audit of what we've done. So now we're absolutely uninterested in financial audit. We're missing it in one session, and now the impact review is going to solve things for us and we're going to go down there. And you don't mention it to anyone. So I am in favour of strengthening the responsibility of the Palrament which should not propose guidelines and solutions but should bring them out. The Council of Ministers can't say I don't care about that. We're responsible again if he said I don't care. So it's our responsibility, not the audit offices. She did her job, which has the office with it more. We here, not the Council of Ministers, we, while we insist, the way we insist, they will do their job. Since Parliament is weak, so is the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9259	The word is from Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9260	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'm also one of the members of this committee who unanimously supported the principles of this law in the first reading. And unlike my colleagues who, I see, one by one withdraw that opinion, I will still support the principles of this law today and I think the principles of this law stand. 28 I'm glad that today, unlike many other situations when we discussed similar topics, I don't need to defend the Office for the Audit of Institutions, because I don't think that they should normally be defended, all people are doing their job. And today it's as if we're discussing the Audit Office, not one proposal to amend and supplement a law and not to discuss the principles for amending and supplementing that law. I'll agree with colleagues who say it's not good for MPs to take the initiative in sensitive system laws. However, if it were not for that, we, gentlemen, wouldn't have anything to discuss, so at least it's good to have parliamentary initiatives. Today on the agenda we have two amendments to the laws that came from the Council of Ministers and you can think of reviewing the impact of that part of the government. One of these amendments and the addition of the law is: instead of Sarajevo, it is now East Sarajevo. And it's a law that's being treated, which is being conducted as one of the laws that we're going to consider today. And that's why there's no need to be surprised, and there's no need to blame at least the people who take it for their own right, they dare to do someone's job, so they can propose changes and supplement the law. God Bog, I expect someone to propose some law tomorrow, so not just change and supplement. And it's not this law attack on the Audit Office. I listened very carefully to the Commission's presentation of Ms. Deputy Auditor and read the letter we received from the Audit Office and there it was said, I registered it, that the Office of Audit has no capacity. So there's no capacity, no personnel capacity to carry out 20 impact audits per year. That's okay, and I accept it as their correct information to us MPs. He's not 20, so let's see how much he's got. We all agree that there is a need to increase the number of impact audits. I didn't hear anyone slow that down. And that's the theme for the amendment phase to see in a correct debate how to ensure that we increase the number of impact audits, make a commitment, and it's not an attack on... The audit office, we don't have to prescribe five of them, we won't prescribe to them which institutions are what years of work, which programs, which projects, etc., we won't prescribe for them, they will. However, to say that it is not just one impact review a year, in this Article 14, I see no reason why we should not do so. And that's why I think this may be ambitious what the Proposer said 'each one of these institutions', thinking as defined in Article 14, did not mean reviewing the impact of institutions, but rather projects of certain jobs within certain institutions. So, let's just say that we see if it's, uh, too ambitious, so let's see what's real. And I think that in communication, meaning all of us with the Office of Audit can be improved in the amendment phase. I even think that unlike the conclusions that we and the Committee have made, what this house has confirmed, this second part of the amendment and the addition is even, as I would say, Benigan, nothing spectacular. But here, let's see in that part. And I agree that we don't have a problem, and as far as I'm concerned, I always try to say clearly, we don't have a problem with the Audit Office, or the way they do their job. Not the Office for Auditing with this Law, and if this is the case, even though I think Article 14 is too ambitious, it should be seen to mean measure. However, we will have problems and have problems with ourselves. So we don't have to go back to audits, records and review offices. This House, this House has reached conclusions that have long since passed, and that is up to us, gentlemen. If we weren't looking for the responsibility of those on the left and on the right, and I don't know which, because if we were doing so, then we wouldn't be discussing the Audit Office, we would be discussing the Office, the responsibilities of the people representing this country in the institutions of the system, the responsibility of all of us. And our responsibility is pathetic. We didn't want to put it in the agenda today, only in the agenda to include information about why we don't have a budget, and here's the third month that's running out. This is where a group of citizens of this country have been protesting for the tenth day that we do not enforce the laws that we have passed. So 29 nothing else, they protest because we don't enforce the laws, and we won't even put it on the agenda, so whatever we conclude. I will uphold the principles of this law, and here in the amendment phase I leave the possibility for everyone else to react in the way they think.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9261	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9262	Here, I'm taking a chance through the replica to pick up, because a little or two of my colleagues are talking about responsibility. A short time ago, we heard from a respected colleague, Vrankić, a recent finance minister, and we also learned about how much BiH, within its institutions, spends on renting space at the level of the year. So we know what the effect of renting those spaces is. We spent a year, I don't know what, 27 million and nothing. In four years of office, here we are, and Minister Vrankić has spent 100 million and a few million and we still have no space. I ask all of us: does one of us work here, or does he have an interest in something and private, and is he interested in it? So, responsibility is on us, especially responsibility is on the parliamentary majority, i.e. on the new Council of Ministers. If he says about the future we want to single out 100 million marks, buy for BiH institutions, buy or create spaces from Banja Luka, Tuzla, East and Western Sarajevo, Mostar and I don't know whether or not to do so, to say that we have room for the new assembly of Parliament in three or two years or two and a half when it comes, here, to enter or the institutions of the BiH authorities to come into new spaces. So it's our responsibility. The point is how much interest it is, or how much interest it is for us to move from a dead end, because this is not how we lead Parliament to debates, because we absolutely know the problem. Only by this problem are we powerful, and it seems to me that we are not in Parliament to change or improve something in that direction. Because the impact review, as counterpart Vrankić said earlier, voters will recognize us in four years. Well, they don't recognize, we've put so much money, in the wind, in the wind, and we haven't come to our property, nor the Council of Ministers, nor agencies, institutions, directorates within the framework of this Parliamentary Assembly and the Council of Ministers, which is why we should call all those to account... who, and failure is sin, and they could have done so. Well, then let's go, since we have a new Council of Ministers two months ago, let's go in that direction and let that be the position of this parliament that they simply have to get, make and secure their own premises for BiH institutions, because that's a bad message. If you're not going to work your space, then you don't mean to stay out there long enough. So you're going to be brief, so you're going to change position, and I think BiH is a long-term solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9263	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adnan Bašić. Here you go. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9264	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Following this discussion in my head created an idea that was conceived at the beginning of my work at the Administrative Commission, which was also very much breaking my head. So many excited spirits on one proposal from my esteemed colleague Dervoz, who you can see has caused so much controversy, so much contradiction, that I'm staying believed in a fragrant, I didn't even hope for what the background of all this is. At that time, the thought that had then been used in my mind, when we started doing a report by the Reviszione Commission on the Administrative Commission, where my distinguished member who had just spoken to me, Mr. Jovičić, and also my esteemed and esteemed Mrs. Majkić, whom I thank for many very useful details and explanations of the legal profession, where she is very experienced and people, who in fact lay like me, in many things are very helpful in their work. Thanks again. There is also Mr. Saša Magazinović and others not to list from the House of Representatives, do not forget and there are six people from the House of Peoples. When it comes to this report and the storm caused by this proposal to supplement the law of our respected colleague, then I realized why I thought about the Berlin Wall right away. Namely, our first meeting with the representatives of the Revisian Commission, I welcome them if they are here because I don't see them, he's just starting to open our eyes in some things. Of course, the review report had an insight into all the anomalies he found, because it was his job. But then there is one dilemma - what after. The moment that we, because we had to do it, try to see exactly what the proposal is based on today, and where the sanctions for all of this is on what you've pointed out, that's when that concrete huge wall that I called the Berlin Wall that shares no more east and west than the review board report and the way of sanctioning what comes out of it. And that's why today is a debate. We've touched the nest of the beads. Someone seems to think in their subconscious that he is responsible for some of the things that have been found in those powerful reports, and he should answer for it. Someone was setting up some people, someone organized some institutions, someone was choosing these people and setting them up and giving them huge and enormous resources. Don't let us banalize about whether someone bought some kind of angry car or if someone spent the means of representation, because when the total amount of money they're talking about is said and put on paper and read out loud, it's a huge amount of money. That's what this is about. Eh, who'll be responsible for her spending in a way that's... law. That's the point, that's the problem, and that's what this debate is all about. And that's why some people don't fit exactly this proposal that's... I believe today, I don't get it, someone's saying it's, let's say, the commission's thinking and she has her own thought of all of this and she's saying it with a delay, or some other expression that doesn't say anything, doesn't interpret anything when she says it with the reserve. What kind of backup? I know the gas tank when I have it, so I know what it is. So what is it, what kind of communication is it, when we're looking for sanctioning what they just gave us. Now, when that happens, then you create what's being created today. Niko one wants to be a driver for the real culprits for the enormous spending of money in a poor country like this to finally and definitely take responsibility for it. And that's what this is all about. It's not about my esteemed colleague's proposal. It's about the system that needs to be revived. I respect what Mr Jovičić said and many who are older than me here in Parliament, meaning on another, perhaps third term, it is really embarrassing if this is done since '96, and they do, some are calling for existing laws and legislative acts that regulate it. Well, now we see how they regulate. If they regulate it, why this proposal? If they regulate it, why this kind of debate? So someone's cheating on someone, not to say a more difficult word, believe me, it still needs to get serious. 31 I would like us to think this way. You really have to take responsibility for what we're responsible for once. I have spoken here from the corner of the Administrative Commission, which is very important for all of us because, as I said, the six of us sitting here and participating in it, what about the BiH Parliament and its responsibilities over the institutions that Parliament controls must be responsibilities, not only because of those whom we are responsible, but because of our credibility as people, as honest and honest choosers of the people to sit and to just talk and make these decisions. We have to start respecting ourselves. I will not bear responsibility for what someone else has done for me. But I want him to be responsible. If you think about it like that, then there won't be this kind of upset spirit and this kind of difficult debate, you know. And one more thing, I thank this likable colleague, Jovičić, I am embarrassed to remind you of my handicap, but, Mr. Chairman and your two deputies, I am asking you as a man to at least these most important, such as members of the Bureau and members of the Council of Ministers, at least say orally who is present. That's what I'm asking you as a man. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9265	Thank you. Here, let me get this straight to the point, I don't see anyone present from the Bureau, nor from the ministers, unless there are deputies. Dear Ismet Dervoz, I ask you since Mr. Šego asked to speak with you, should you say after him? Mr. Šego, did you think, please?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9266	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I welcome you all together. The initiative to amend the Law on the Revision of BiH Institutions is completely legal and legitimate and I don't think anyone here in this Chamber, nor in the public, disputes one such fact. However, the question arises as to how and how to access better effects, better legal solution and better legal solutions, in general, in order to better detect responsibility in audit reports, better implement the recommendations we make, by doing the audit, 100%. I have to say that I haven't had the chance or the opportunity or I know that anyone in the office has spoken to the legislators of this law. So there was no initiative from the distinguished representative, Mrs. Dervoz, to possibly talk to us on this subject. True, there was an initiative from the Citizens' Association called "Cult" based on Ilidji. It also provided the truth to us on 5.8.2011 with this intention, and before that they were admitted to our senior auditors for the interview and we answered 10th, 15 days, I have this memo here, this same Association of Citizens, and how we feel that the issue of the revision in BiH should be asked, and we thought that the matter was done in a certain way as regards this Association of Citizens. Obviously, if Mrs. Dervoz is here to identify himself with this NGO or the Citizens' Association, then she's right. But only she never submitted any proposal or request for a meeting. 32 To remind ourselves, the public sector review has been done since 2000 in BiH. It's a very young activity, one of the youngest even in this region. In 2006, too, the laws on review in BiH were harmonised. I can proudly point out here that we in BiH have a truly unique audit thanks primarily to the professional approach and thanks to the Co-ordination Committee, which consists of the main auditors and vice-presidents. We have a unique methodology, which is very important, because you can't do these jobs without methodology, unique guides, unique instructions, manuals, and even the form of writing reports. Therefore, any one, just to remind myself that any advisory group of nine members, including the World Bank, the OHR, and the European Commission, etc., as an initiator, participated in any initiative that is completely legitimate, cannot now ask in this House that the same initiative is happening in the entity parliaments, but it would not be possible to amend the Law on State-level Audit, which still takes 10% to 15% of the public funds in BiH through control, and that such an initiative is missing in the entities and in Brcko District. Therefore, it would be necessary, and I fully agree with those who spoke on the subject that it would be necessary for any initiative to amend and supplement the Audit Law to consult with the Co-ordination Committee of the Supreme Audit Institutions in BiH and possibly launch initiatives to launch amendments to all these laws, which I believe we all want to make it a positive move. As for these proposed amendments and the addition of the laws and, behold, accepted by the Committee itself, where I was not getting the circumstances, it was a substitute and that is the same, I can say that here is the way it is proposed and that the above-mentioned review and efficiency to go against the independence of the supreme audit institutions, with the aim of further increasing the scope of the statutory audits. It is also a difficult or impossible task, taking into account insufficient resources from top audit institutions in BiH, an additional 20 or more audits annually. According to the audit standards, the Supreme Audit Institutions must have the freedom to establish areas that will cover their impact audits. Therefore, these cannot be according to the standards of the prescribed obligation for each institution. ... I'm just saying what I'm saying and it's my duty to say that by standards: a regular impact review, as defined in Article 1, completely disregards what an impact review is. The impact review is by its nature an activity that is not repeated, and now would be repeated, and is not necessarily directed at the individual bodies of the institution. So here, we're going to have one topic today: the return of displaced and refugees, so one broad topic is present here; the way it is placed and used in this article, therefore it is not in line with the definition of impact review, not even in the law and legal call for review according to the... framework. So... the framework involves audit standards, the Roman and Mexican declarations and everything that is related to our profession. According to these standards, impact review is not a regular revision. We've taken these standards by law, with a formalized official opinion, and has no roots in the commercial audit as a financial audit and a conformity review. It's an independent study done on a one-time basis. And then how are we going to do these recommendations, and later on, if we're talking about repetitive and sanctioning and accountability, how are we going to do that in the impact review? Because it doesn't need to be repeated according to standards. In general, top audit institutions may seek to achieve an impact review of one of the following general objectives: to ensure a legislative independent study of the economic, efficiency or effectiveness in the implementation practice of government policies or programmes, to ensure a legislative independent analysis of the validity and reliability of the system for measuring the effects or reports of self-evolutions on the effects announced by the executive authorities, to ensure a legislative independent assessment of the intended effects, the impact of governmental or agency programmes, as well as whether and to what extent those objectives or practical objectives are met, and if not 33, for which reasons. The impact review in the EU has been formulated as the right of top audit institutions and EU member states, rather than regular obligations. ... As far as the recommendation is concerned, importantly, I am talking about impact review, it is important to stress that impact auditors can never determine that they have found exactly the only rational solution, even if the recommendations given are both logical and quality-based. There are always other options. Therefore, formally now demand that some recommendation is or is not implemented, I think it is wrong and that it is hardly possible to withdraw some sanctions from the legal aspect. As for the amount of efficiency audits carried out in BiH, I can tell you that BiH, when it comes to this issue, is in the region in a certain way a leader. Let me remind you, it was the other day at the Croatian Parliament, the Republic of Croatia, the State Office of the Republic of Croatia carried out only two efficiency audits last year. As we know, Croatia is going to the EU, Serbia still does not have that impact review, Slovenia has carried out six of these audits, Montenegro one, Macedonia four audits. Therefore, in BiH, we have already, at the moment, had three initial audits on the subject: the use of the rolling stock in BiH institutions, the reporting system in BiH institutions and the Multi-annual Capital Investments in BiH institutions. So we have three initial audits. I think they have four initial audits on the entities. So we will have more audits than all countries in the environment as far as impact review is concerned. As far as Article 16, as we understand it, in the Office, a new formulation of the position (4) of this article should strengthen the supervisory function of Parliament. We believe, however, that this issue is already satisfactory and correctly covered by Article 16(3), which states: 'The audited institution is obliged to send the reply to the Office for Audit and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH within 60 days of the receipt of the audit report, in accordance with the position (2) of this member', which states the actions taken by that institution to overcome the weaknesses, irregularities and violations identified in the audit report. In addition, though it would be interesting for both us and Parliament to really understand why certain recommendations have not been implemented, this new provision also does not comply with the review standards. Standards point out that in formulating and monitoring the realisation of the recommendations, the auditor should maintain objectivity and independence, and thus focus on whether identified weaknesses have been corrected rather than whether concrete recommendations have been adopted. As already said, the auditor cannot claim to have found a single possible way of correcting weaknesses. You can come to Igman through Hadžić and through Lukavica. It's important to get there. Therefore, we can never rightly claim that we have just chosen the only possible way; and many countries in the world, here we were in... visits to Norway, do not make recommendations at all. So they have and there are findings, there are weaknesses described but... Furthermore, the problem with the recommendations is that there are such system recommendations, at least 40% of them. So I'm wondering if I can answer the question: who's going to be responsible, let's say, for the recommendation we gave to the Foreign Ministry that it's necessary to make a law on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and that law hasn't been passed for seven years? Well, it can't be responsible for the Foreign Ministry. Who makes the laws? Or who will be responsible if we say that it is necessary to make changes to the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the administration, where the Office of Audit is classified in the scheme of administrative organisations and all this goes through the procedure at the Council of Ministers, etc., and it all ends, but the parliamentary procedure does not pass that law. Well, we can't make MPs vote for or against anything. They have the full right to vote for or against. Therefore, there will be a legal stalemate. What is prescribed by these amendments from the law in terms of these responsibilities under unfulfilled recommendations, I don't think it's a good solution. As for the 34 Swedish State Office, they are our partners and they are – we were at the meeting of the Management Committee of the Project – team here. Therefore, I do not believe that they put any pressure on BiH institutions. After all, BiH has been lashed out and swept out by various international institutions and, if they put it that way, I don't think they would have gotten far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9267	Thank you. Dear Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9268	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr. Šega. It was a pleasure to hear some of what he said, although a lot of what he was telling us is not entirely about what we're talking about here today. We here today had before us the principles of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions. Mr. Šego is talking about standards. Standards exist, Mr. Šego, to be promoted, to be changed and to adapt certain standardisations to projects or situations in which they are designated for certain activities. When you talk about resources, we asked a question at the Commission's meeting: When will the Audit Office have additional capacity and resources to do more work that will bring more benefits to the citizens of BiH? So, the standards change, the resources need to be improved and... what you said was an attempt to stay on the status quo and to maintain the path-position, and what it contains today's proposal to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, to get things started from the place, to open up a process in which in a quality and correct exchange of views between those who are the implementers and between us who are legally authorised legislators – I did not like how you continuously repeat about legality and legitimacy. You must know that this is the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and what our mission is. We are initiating, promoting, correcting everything that is in the interest of legislation for BiH citizens. I would like to thank the distinguished colleagues and colleagues for today's counseling, and I would like to assess it, a very high-quality and very good debate initiated by this proposal. I believe that this is an indication that we, as newly arrived at the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, are rightly choosing the topics that we will initiate and the problems affecting the entire population of BiH and all those they concern. And, therefore, I thank you once again for this extraordinary discussion. So there is no ideal law and there is no law that can't be changed, especially if there are real needs for it, and we in BiH really see real needs for changing and supplementing this knowledge. No one thinks of jeopardizing the independence of the audit, because it would lose everyone, primarily citizens and the public. I propose and ask the Parliamentary Assembly to allow us to adopt the principles, as the Finance and Budget Commission has also unanimously done, to open a process in which we will reach a solution that will be exclusively and only for those concerned. So neither the Audit Office nor us as proposings, but the citizens of BiH. Dear colleagues, I thank you once again. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9269	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9270	It's not a replica, just two sentences. So, regardless of what will happen to this proposal, the initiative, etc., at least as far as I'm concerned, I learned something based on these discussions and on Mr. Šega's presentation that, practically, until the management of the Office of Auditors and consultants are asked, we do not need to enter any discussions on this Audit Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9271	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a law supplementing the Election Law, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission At the 24th session of the House, held on 15.3., the House did not accept the request of MEPs to consider the proposal for an emergency procedure, as well as a shortened one, so that the proposal for a law is considered according to the basic legislative procedure. The relevant Constitutional Legal Commission delivered 27. 3. Opinion. The Commission did not support the principles of the bill. I'm opening an opinion debate. Dear Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9273	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to say that the proposal for a law supplementing BiH's election law, the Alliance for a Better Future Club, has submitted only one goal, and that is to find room for opposition in election committees. What we considered to be quite legal, legitimate, politically wise: to be members of the opposition on election boards, so that things that have been happening so far would not happen again and that we would not absolutely come into the situation to suspect the elections we have made. I must also express my disappointment that the Constitutional Commission with two votes 'against', three 'abstained' and no 'yes' vote gave its opinion on this proposal. I doubt this is even one signal to the opposition to know what awaits them in the local elections in 2012. And this will certainly, eventually, not adopting this process, be an additional process in which the opposition must prepare well 36 for the elections, organise for the elections, because we are once again followed by the theft of votes as it has been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9274	Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was one of those two members who were against the principles of this law. I'll tell you why. I agree that the existing solutions in the Electoral Law are lacking. However, I fear that the solution offered is worse than existing solutions. It is not good to amend certain laws to satisfy them and fulfill the interests of any individual, or groups. This law, except for one party, draws on election committees. It's not true, the opposition can now, I don't know how, even with this law of discrimination, here in my municipality there are 13 political factors, in the Assembly of the Municipality, of which three or four are in position. Everyone else is opposition. And they are eliminated, and they are not a parliamentary party at either ethnic or state level, and they get their seats on election committees. So I'm afraid this law has been made, and that's what I'm going to end up with, it's just, I'm seeing here exactly one game drawn that needs to have the vice president of the commission. I'm sorry, I'm an opposition party, I have presidents in the RS, and why would I make a compromise to take less than I have? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9276	Dear Ambassador Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9277	Correction of the wrong quote by Mr. Đugum. First, it is incorrect that opposition representatives cannot participate in election committees, and this practice has so far shown that this is completely different. However, when it comes to this bill, it is not at a session of the Constitutional Commission, at least not of all, that there have been disputes of the proposal itself and the matter it is trying to define differently, but rather the simple reason why the Constitutional Commission has reacted in this way: what the Interresor Working Group is currently doing to amend the electoral legislation, whose theme among other things is the BiH Election Law. And it's quite logical for us to view this as an initiative to the Interresor Working Group, not to run two parallel processes. I mean, that would be the same as the Council of Ministers announced that they would be working on savings in the entire system when it comes to wages, fees, etc., and that we are now going with individual initiatives in that direction, so that we could, if we could, warn something that is already being systematically arranged.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9278	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9279	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the issue of the election committees should be paid due attention and we have had it almost every term of office of this Parliament, since at least once we discussed the Election Law in each session, we had it as a topic. I believe that the solutions we have today are not satisfactory and that these solutions should be improved. Today's solutions are that all the political parties that are candidates in the elections have the right to participate in the process and the Election Commission is later making a choice. So, not only the position and opposition, the elections go to those who will be neither the position nor the opposition in the elected authorities, but all political entities and independent candidates and political parties. And that is one of the problems of this proposal because it implies position and opposition. And the election committees have the right to participate, at least according to current solutions, all who compete in the election game for all levels of government. What I think should be done when these election committees are at stake is to give greater authority to election committees and to deny the authority of political parties. I think that professionalisation should be introduced when it comes to election committees, with perhaps some technical improvements... or assumptions, when polling stations and working in polling stations are at stake, so that the work, the electoral process at that most sensitive stage is fully regulated and without any objections. That's why I was one of the abstentions to this proposal. So, I didn't vote for these reasons, I didn't vote against because I think this should be improved, but not in this way. And I think Mr. Magazinović pointed out the way for this initiative, which is this Interresor Working Group that is already working on amendments to the Election Law. And there's one more thing, watch out, I mean, I don't want to go any further that... the law is the law, so you have to think about every detail when you're passing the law and see if it can withstand a trial in practice and, wherever there is even the slightest doubt that the law will endure a test, you don't need to get into it. The proposal discusses the participation of the position and opposition when it comes to membership and talks about election committee presidents, positions and opposition. Now watch out. We have one polling post where two ballots are voted in BiH for local elections for the council and for the chief, so. And maybe there wouldn't be a problem, you'd know what the position of the opposition is. But when the general elections are at stake, the old problem I was talking about remains: the participation of all political entities in the electoral committees, that is the solution, and this solution also speaks of the involvement of political entities, because the position and opposition are political entities. I think we should go back to what I was talking about at first. But the problem is here when other levels of government are at stake. You can, therefore, have one polling post in which you have a ballot for the BiH presidency, for the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives, for the entity parliament and for the Federation of BiH for the Cantonal Parliament. And so it's possible that you have on these different levels different settings when it comes to position and opposition. How, then, this single electoral committee, which is to meet all of this, is to be constructed in terms of the requirements set out in this proposal. That's why I call on my colleagues, so I don't want to diminish the importance of this initiative at all, to think about all this and to come up with a good idea in this Interresor Working Group how to solve this issue. We're talking about this, even the Interresor Working Group, which I chaired in 2007, suggested one solution and look at this solution that, I think, was satisfactory. We had the courage then to offer one solution to professionalise it to include the Election Commission in the process, it did not pass here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. It did not go through 38 precisely because of the particular political interests of certain political parties. Take a look at that solution, the 2007 proposal, when it comes to election committees. I think we should get back to that. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9280	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Rules of Procedure to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) MEPs Milorad Živković, Božo Ljubić and Denis Bećirović are 23.3. Rules of Procedure of the House, submitted to the Rules of Procedure on the completion of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. The Constitutional Legal Commission is 27. 3. In 2012, she delivered an opinion. I'm opening a debate on the first-reading draft Rules of Procedure. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9282	I would like to thank the promoters on behalf of the Constitutional Commission, so the College of the House of Representatives. I think you've seen the problem we have when it comes to our rules of procedure. I don't think it's justified that there's a difference in negative opinion and a negative report when it comes to first reading and second reading, and that it should be evened out. The proposal for an addendum to the Rules of Procedure goes that way and I think it should be accepted. I call upon the House to accept it, if possible today, you think, in both readings; I do not know if it is possible, see a little Rules of Procedure. I'd even be inclined to make that kind of difference. But it doesn't matter. If it's first reading, that's enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9283	Dear Ambassador Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9284	Very briefly, on the background of what counterpart Džaferović said, I would also like to congratulate the members of the College. I think you've seen one anomaly that exists and has burdened this House's work by allowing countless times to return to issues that obviously cannot be passed in this House. This does not mean that some of the laws that cannot pass will not be able to be returned to the procedure, but certainly will not burden the session at the session and we will not come into the situation that in a joke what one of the members of the College says: there is a agenda ahead of us, such as you had at 39 last, pre-session and that session before that, because one of those same points is spinning precisely because the Rules of Procedure allows it. And I think you've seen that well, and I absolutely need to support your proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9285	Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9286	I was a little late, but I couldn't congratulate you here, of course, on what they were congratulating, I haven't understood since when, or is it applied to what is now in the process?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9287	Here we go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9288	A little explanation.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9289	Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9290	Only when it comes to wishes, congratulations and greetings, would I congratulate the Commission on human rights which was initially criticised here because its conclusion was also a proposal for Parliament to change... _________(?) [[microphone is not enabled]] What? (?) microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9293	Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9294	The chairman, not a replica, I apologize, this electronics has failed. I wanted to say it's a solid initiative, not to repeat it, but it should be defined what is the period when a certain legal project or initiative cannot be repeated in the procedure. And I think it's necessary to write a time of six months in identical form. Therefore, it cannot appear in an identical form or title in a period of six, at least six months. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9295	Thank you. Please just turn it off, you don't have any more. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. So, the proposal addressed by the Kolegijum and an identical proposal as resolved in the Rules of Procedure, the question is the Commission's opinion. The date on which it will begin to apply and the way it will begin to apply is the matter of the Kolegijum which, when it adopts a decision on how it is done and how it is interpreted, all MPs will be sent to the Rules of Procedure. I suggest that MPs' clubs take a break until the voting decision under Article 164 decides that we go to another reading right after the first reading. This would create conditions for us to finish reading today and the first and second readings and solve this practical problem, so that in your clubs, you can think about it. I will suggest after the first reading; if there is unanimous support, that you go straight to the second reading. Thank you. Moving to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad.10. Report by the Commission on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion of the Commission's Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs You've received a match report. The college as a commission has failed to achieve consent. Today, we will declare ourselves in the second round on the proposal for conclusions from the Commission's opinion. Point 11. Ad. 11. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Act on the Court of Justice 41
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9300	Thank you very much. Here, we received a report on the work of the military commissioner for 2011 and we saw that he sublimed at several points his activities that were reduced to seven points, from the process of progress of professional military personnel, evaluation of the work of professional military personnel, conduct of the disciplinary procedure in the Armed Forces, problems with the adoption of sublegal acts, fees that do not have the character of the salary, the nutrition of members of the Armed Forces of BiH and the conditions of stay and accommodation in the barracks. So what's really striking about this report is the situation in the Armed Forces, especially when it comes to feeding the Armed Forces. Therefore, those involved in this report could see that the military commissioner identified a problem in the organisation of food for members of the Armed Forces, its storage and delivery, and that only 50.7% of the required needs for the feeding of the Armed Forces were met. It's a dramatic attitude of the military commissioner. So he says no sugar, rice, beans, edible oil, concentrate for soup and other. What's been delivered? Also, a longer period of time, the army has no detergents for 42 machine-washing, hand-washing, disinfection and all. So these are the things that really worry. We'll have to deal with the problem if there's an infection in the military, if there's a disease in the military. Also, what should be commended is that the conditions of stay and accommodation in the armed forces barracks after the military commissioner's intervention have been corrected. An example is given here, if we remember last report by the barracks "Žarko Zgonjanin" in Prijedor, in which the military commissioner found it possible to contaminate. Here, on this basis, the situation has improved and therefore the impact of the military commissioner in the 2011 report is evident. But regardless of what it really is and what it should be dealt with and... what the Joint Defence and Security Committee was working on, I'm in the meantime, I don't think it would be bad to adopt two conclusions. One is "the Parliamentary Assembly supports the work of the parliamentary military commissioner and obliges the Ministry of Defence and the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces to implement the military commissioner's recommendations". Others: "The BiH Ministry of Defence and the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces of BiH are obliged to establish strong co-operation with the military commissioner in the direction of removing the observed shortcomings shown in the 2011 Military Commissioner's report." This will strengthen what the military commissioner has done, along with the Ministry of Defence and the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to further cooperate with the military commissioner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9301	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. Šefik, is it a replica?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9302	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9303	Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9304	We adopted the report on the Commission. Mrs. Majkić has now performed as the chairman of the Commission. We have not adopted any conclusions on the Commission. Is it only a question, therefore, that these are your conclusions, yours as representatives? I'd just ask, so these are acceptable conclusions, I mean it's an undeniable thing, I mean it, but I'd like the Commission to stand by all these conclusions. Let it go like this this this time, and in the future, once the Commission has come to the conclusion that we have common conclusions. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9305	Dear Member Dušanka Majkić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9306	So, I always draw conclusions for the Commission. When I was preparing for the House session, I came up with the idea that maybe I could step up a little bit more. So it can be rejected, it's not 43 at all. But don't let anyone else not be able to say anything after the Commission's completion, that's not right. I, as an MP, have the right, whether chaired or chaired by the Commission, until the moment I am allowed to conclude. So it's our right to vote or not to vote on the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9307	Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, a reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9308	Nothing is disputed, just say that these are your conclusions, not the Commission's conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9309	Well, I said it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9310	Thank you. I hope we get it in writing so we can put it to a vote. Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9311	Thank you, Chairman. I would first of all say that this year's Military Commissioner's report is somewhat better than last year's. And... what's not good is that I don't see results. Out of 59 complaints, two cases were resolved by mediation. The military commissioner's goal should not be to make recommendations, but to solve a particular problem. And here is what I would suggest to the military commissioner that in his opening statement, he says: "This is the case, and in the coming period it is bound to commit itself to commitment on the way to fulfilling its obligations." To make a little more of a commitment than it's ever been before. I must say that what's good in this report is that the military commissioner, so he didn't only realize that he had 59 complaints, but he did exactly the grouping and showed, pointed out specific problems. Of course, it's not a good thing these problems aren't solved yet. We see from this report that the largest number of problems are currently occurring in the progress of the Ministry of Defense. Although here I have to say that this report is contradictory, because it is said to mean, except that this process... of improving and evaluating is non-transparent, which the rules are passed, as the military commissioner finds, from case to case, and then says: there is progress. So what's the progress? Here, I'll tell you that that means some data that the media came up with, and I read it in the media, that in 2010 out of 236 promotions the higher rank received 105 Bošnjak, 117 Hrvat and 14 Srbin. Only in one contest in 2011 of 225 officers promoted 180 Bošnjak, two Srbin promoted to supporters. God Bog the army followed the recommendations, if it hadn't followed the recommendations of the military commissioner, I wonder what they'd have today. So, in addition to what we really have the effect of this work, I would resent the military commissioner for one more thing, which is that here in his report he boasts and affirms that it is important to establish a body whose member he will be, and that the draft decision on the establishment of that body is made at a conference organised by an international group, an international organisation. Well, I guess the draft decisions are made by the Council of Ministers and by Parliament. It's a bit demeaning and 44 for a military commissioner and for these institutions that someone else is writing us drafts of our decisions without, I'm not going into well-meaning, it may be good decisions, but it has to be known where in this country and who in this country should make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9312	Thank you. I also thank the military commissioner. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Report on the impact audit carried out on the theme "Inhabitable care of returnees" The institution audit office is 27. 2. In accordance with Article 16th century (1) and (5) of the Revision Act, the BiH Institutions submitted the Report. The financial and budgetary committee responsible is 28. 3. In 2012, she delivered an opinion. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear Ambassador Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9314	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow representatives, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by quoting the allegations from the revision: 'The implementation of the audit office has found that the implementation process of the programme is ineffective and negatively affecting the results of the renovation and return. The implementation of reconstruction and reconstruction projects on average takes two years, and in certain cases for more than three years. The programmes have not fully achieved the expected effects. Namely, every fourth renovated housing unit is not inhabited. Conditions for achieving the effectiveness of the programme have been created, but in practice a complicated system has been established with many participants implementing it without a clear division of their responsibilities and clearly defined deadlines and quantifiable targets. As a result, there is an inefficient and untimely implementation of the projects." So, positive business practice tells us that we should do the right thing the right way. When it comes to doing the right things, I think it's one of the right things to do is to return and compensate people displaced and refugees. However, in this audit report, we see that things were not done properly and certain recommendations were made. When it comes to recommendations related to the Ministry and the Committee, I will have one conclusion. And when it comes to legal matters, which is a program like the Rehabilitation Programme for individual housing units intended to return, so in this way that has been done so far, I think it's an impossible mission, especially when it comes to working people who have had this problem of displaced and refugees. Because working 45 to get a working man back where he's out of work, I think it's a useless mission, or an impossible mission, because a man won't come back. And returning, or working on the return of persons who have completed a career, should then be done in a different way. And therefore, when it comes to the work of the right things in the right way, the conclusion I propose is: 'To be in charge of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees to make a register of the former and future beneficiaries of the Return Fund, in cooperation with the Committee for Refugees and Displaced Persons of BiH, which will record all the beneficiaries of the Fund's funds for return and ranking at the priorities of all future beneficiaries of the Return Fund'. What's the reason? Recommendations on page 48, the first point says: 'Make sure that the decisions on the allocation of funds are made on the basis of the real needs to be addressed according to established priorities. The choice of users and the assessment of the priorities for the granting of assistance should be preceded by decisions on the allocation of funds." That's the conclusion about the Ministry and the Committee. When it comes to the Parliamentary Assembly, the task of us who gave the recommendation from the revision is said: 'Intensify and improve harmonisation and coordination of activities to address the problem of returning refugees and displaced persons and creating conditions for sustainable return'. When it comes to a sustainable return, it is therefore the creation of conditions for people to have a job where they return. I think that my initiative that I have launched here in Parliament, when it comes to the situation in agriculture and employment in agriculture, will contribute to this and wait as soon as possible for this to be the subject of Parliament, so that Parliament, what the recommendations are given, will carry out its own angle. Me so, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9315	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9316	Very briefly, therefore, and what I just said, this document is very valuable, educational and beneficial and it is certain that it deserves a thorough debate, but also the participation of those responsible for the implementation of this project. Unfortunately, I do not see if there is anyone from the Ministry of Displacement (has?, is there?, is there?, is there?) and I am interested, I have a question for the auditors: 'Is this finding still standing that the Ministry of Disintegrated Persons and the Committee for Displaced Persons and Refugees have not been manifested on this report, because it is in the opening notes that there has been no readings?' So, by supporting this report, considering it very useful, I ask that question. And one little suggestion: if this does not conflict with these standards in Swedish, this topic, the revision of the topic, this term 'theme', so I think it should be said that it is a revision of the project programme or the spending of money. I'm not really good at reviewing the subject. Maybe you should say reviewing the project's programme, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9317	Dear Ambassador Anto Domazet. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9318	I'm sorry, I'm new, I want a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9319	Here, you have the word, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9320	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a very high-quality report on the effects of the review and it would certainly deserve much more attention in some other circumstances as regards the discussion, with regard to evaluations, recommendations, conclusions, etc. What we can now conclude and what is related to and the point at which the amendments to the Law on Audit show us that the revision of the effects is practically not an audit of institutions and that you usually have one process in which many more institutions operate and which are interdependent. So that indicates, on the one hand, the complexity of the process and, on the other hand, that we probably wouldn't have full effect if we only put the institutions as subject to impact review. As far as the contents of this report are concerned, I particularly want to refer to the definition of effectiveness given in this document. In fact, efficiency has been assessed, defined as the rate of return of people, displaced and exiled people to their pre-war homes. This puts a very ambitious definition, and I'm afraid that the whole process, when it comes to this impact report, is focused, above all, on seeing what rationality is in relation to the use of funds for the restoration of displaced persons' housing and that we can hardly enter into it to assess the rate of return. Namely, the return of displaced and exiled persons should be a much more complex process, it includes many more other actors who need to create conditions of economic nature, social, educational, health and others for normal return and life of people. In this regard, I think that this revision may have given too strong an assessment of the effectiveness of the effects, because it has taken one criterion for which participants in the value chain of building housing are not and can neither be responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9321	Thank you. No more reports. Do you have a need for an audit? If you need anything, go ahead. Deputy Chief Auditor, Mrs. Božana.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9322	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I have a need outside the Office of Audit to answer the questions asked about the report on the housing care of the returnees. Is it true and true that, as indicated in the report, the Ministry of Displaced Persons, or the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, did not submit their comments on the draft reports? Of course, during the duration of the audit, there was a need to clarify various misunderstandings and dilemmas and mainly on the initiative of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Office for Auditing managed 47 to find time for the necessary meetings in order to fully eliminate these misunderstandings and dilemmas. As you have seen, the Return Fund, as one of the participants in this housing process, provided its comments which were essentially just a confirmation of all the findings in this report. As regards comments, i.e. issues related to efficiency, why it is not the result of renewed housing units, but it is the number of resettled, renovated and reconstructed housing units, for the reason that you know it is a strategically defined goal. BiH's Annex VII implementation strategy The Dayton Peace Agreement was defined and one of the strategic objectives was to complete the process of reconstruction of housing units for return purposes. If it is a return, and the ultimate goal is a return, then the point is that the ultimate effect is really the number of restored, reconstructed housing units that have been moved in. So also the number of returnees to those renovated housing units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9323	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 15th point of the agenda: Ad. 15. Annual report on discrimination in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 We are in the same situation as point 6 that our commission did not deliver an opinion at that time, so we are postponing this item of the agenda. I thank Mr. Ombudsmans for attending today's session. I hope we can consider that at the next session. Moving to the 16th point of the agenda: Ad. 16. Declaration on Parliamentarian Mirsad Đugum's initiative from the 16th session of the House of Representatives, held on 22 May 2016. 12. 2011
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9326	Look, I am obliged here to say that by discussing this initiative and making a decision on it, there has been a non-discipline on the Commission, because we have always, until now, any representative of any initiative to submit, adopted the conclusion that the representative has the right to initiative under Article 8. The Rules of Procedure and we're delivering it to further procedures, so let the House decide. Such a conclusion was also proposed for this initiative and it was correct that all colleagues voted in favour of such a conclusion, however, it was not supported by such a single conclusion and this is because you received it in the report, but I stood up to say that there was one unprincipled thing about this part of the agenda. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9327	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9328	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't say it's an unprincipled thing. Would you, Mr. Džaferović, support the initiative if Bog didn't give it to you, here I propose an initiative to put off the BiH Constitution? Of course you wouldn't support it because it's a direct attack on the constitutional order, so it's impossible to support an initiative that's not in line. I think this initiative should be launched in entity parliaments and this is really a good idea and... two ministries need to find and look together and make them work. But... it's just the wrong place and it's not in line with the entity or the BiH Constitution.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9329	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović has a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9330	Oh, Mrs. Pandurević, I don't think we got along very well and that you've mixed up some things, but what can we do now? So it is the right of the MPs to submit the initiative and that initiative, when it passes through the commission, the commission only determines the right of MPs, and the House makes a decision. You didn't even let that be said about this initiative this time, and you know what we've done so far, how we've done so far when it comes to these initiatives. And of course, any initiative that calls for what you're talking about, of course it can't pass, can't get support either in the commission or in Parliament, so it's clear to you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9331	Dear Ambassador Saša Magazinović, replica. Here you go. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9332	kolegica. Pandurević presented an absolutely incomparable comparison, inapplicable,... and it is possible that the reason for not getting into the essence of the proposal of fellow Đugum's initiative. So, fellow Đugum, and it stands clearly here, asked for the establishment of a parliamentary commission, not an institution, which would look at legal opportunities and real needs. So, along with the institutions of the state and both entities. So this is the story of it, but good, that I am now not defending the initiative, there is no need, but therefore it is not and it is not about any intrusion in any jurisdiction, but about talking to the authorities at all levels of government in terms of seeing the possibilities and needs and the commission says: there is no need, there is no agreement, and that is it. So it's not like what my colleague Pandurević was saying.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9333	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9334	Thank you. In Article III, the following paragraph is added: Article 1 The BiH constitution is a tax-listed list of BiH's competences, among which there is no health care. Article 68. The RS constitution lists the RS competences where health care is located. With the Federation constitution, its member seems to me 3.2. The healing is divided between jurisdiction, the health care is divided between canton and entity government. So, you would, I don't know, it's the same as if you'd try to discuss here now I don't know about some issue from agriculture that's entity jurisdiction. So we can't discuss here topics that aren't in our constitutional jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9335	Dear Ambassador Saša Magazinović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9336	Is it written in the Constitution that representatives of institutions from all levels of government cannot sit down and discuss how large patients who seek money for treatment abroad are treated within BiH, regardless of who they are, from which entities, peoples come, etc. Does it say anywhere in the Constitution that it's forbidden to talk about it? Let's relax a little, so no one here will fool anyone, there are so many mechanisms of protection of any interest. But when, conditionally speaking, someone is protected from someone who doesn't attack and who doesn't take anything away from it, this is an initiative to talk and see how to solve a problem. So you see him on the jambo posters when you pass as everyone else sees him. And you're looking for some conspiracy theory in that, so it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9337	Dear Ambassador Mirsad Đugum, as a legislator of the initiative, may have been the first to go, but here. Here you go. 50
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9338	Well, I was wondering if I should answer the question. I tried to explain the reason last time, and the reason is simple – citizen. The reason is every child who can come to the wallpaper tomorrow is to ask for a citizen humanitarianally each to give one brand telephone or two stamps of telephone to treat something and somewhere to treat it. I fully understand that entities or Brcko District are not in the capacity to create treatment departments for individual diseases. But BiH is in the capacity to have enough patients for certain diseases to be treated, regardless of whether in Mostar, Banja Luka, or in Sarajevo, or in Tuzla. That's why the initiative came, because if not, then we have to discuss what rights insurance is. Whether the health insurance company has its health insurance and we tell him that there is a cure, a possibility of treatment or healing but that is why it remains for the family to worry about collecting 100 or 200 000 euros and to go abroad to an unknown institution without any help from society and that everyone cares about themselves. If that's the part we want to keep it that way, then let this initiative go to waste. I was just looking for a conversation and parliamentarians, considering that 20% of the doctors in this House are sitting here, given that we cannot find any conversation at Canton and Federation level, that there is no good cooperation between entities. And one piece of information that in the Federation of BiH we do not have a common association of doctors or doctors. Isn't that enough to indicate that if we don't take care of that part, where something can be done together, as much as we care about insurance. If in Canton of Sarajevo we can invest 40 million marks for capital investments, purchase equipment, appliances, which is illegal, can't we invest in insurance health, and the Health Insurance Office is a register, a voluntary register of all of us health insurance companies. We need to be aware that politics has put their paws on both the Health Insurance Office and has those resources as it will, even, even the proposals of the health insurance budget do not go to public debate, nor does anyone ask the insurance company. These are the things we need to talk about here. I'm not saying that we need to make a decision on who's going to be treated, but we need to impose a system so that everyone who is his right, his duty, his duty, can be treated in BiH or must seek what they say, credit lines to be treated outside. I think this has gone too far for us to have distress calls every day, to have children dying every day, and we're not able to provide them with treatment and that this is a place where we should talk as well. If we don't think this is the place, then I don't know where it is. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9339	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had to answer for the replica for the reason that someone's discussions here, the previous speakers, are simply trying to get the story on that track that all those who defend this initiative are saying that everything that's been counted here is actually being done, that we have children's cardiosurgery and everything we're looking for, and we who say it's all standing, there are a lot of people who need it, but it's known how it's arranged in this country. It's clear where she is, what 51 colleagues Pandurević was saying, who's taking care of who's obliged to provide it. So why look now, and on the other hand, I'm not going to answer for the discussion when I've already answered the line to say, I think it's a good thing that the Commission is like this, that my colleague Džaferović put out, what she's done for the simple reason that we've been really in Parliament lately, that some initiatives appear on the agenda simply as an initiative for an initiative, a story for a story. So then after that, we have comments in both the media and the journalists and elsewhere, he says: they put on a variety of initiatives because they have no law, they have no other things to deal with and do. Is that what we need? I don't belong to that group of MPs who thinks it's only for the sake of the story. And I think that this initiative is only put in place for the sake of the story, and we know very well who is defending in this country that someone who needs child cardiosurgery, if that cardiosurgery is in Sarajevo to come to the Sarajevo Clinical Center and bring his child if he needs it. No Niko is defending him, nor will they forbid him, as he does not defend him, here's a concrete example, although please don't understand that it's some kind of a commercial, such as no story, no commission, no agreement that a lot of people from Bijeljina say go and look for hospital checks at Mr. Kabil and tell me, "He's your colleague in Parliament, can we get to his phone, we want to go right to him." Many Srbin from Bijeljina go and search, but there was no commission, no story, it simply ends in a practical way and people go where they are better and where they think they have a good service. So this isn't any commercial, I'm just telling you about some practical life stuff as it stands. And we should if we want as a society and as responsible politicians, if we want to help these people who need these things, then we should all work our way to where we are, in those entities where we live that what we have, means the clinic in Banja Luka, in Tuzla, in Mostar, in Sarajevo, everywhere we exist to help them improve, to modernize, to provide what we need to ensure that people here have. Although, to tell you the truth, I think a lot of people, and under such circumstances, are asking people to go to Zagreb, to go to Ljubljana, to go to Belgrade, to Sremska Kamenica, to other places, if they have complex health problems. So whatever we do, we're going to have a hard time changing people's minds not to ask them to go... to other places to solve their problems, just to invest now, I don't know, 100 million euros in our clinics and to modernise them, you just have that kind of mentality among people. So, to finish, let's not get into a situation where we only have an initiative for the initiative and now we're making some sort of division of who's in, who, so we all support that when people have difficult health problems to find the most optimal way to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9341	Thank you. Let's move on. Replica, dear colleague Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9342	I wasn't here saying absolutely whether anyone was talking, discussing from one entity or another, or from one nation or another. This isn't an initiative for a story. If it had been an initiative for stories, otherwise it would have... here was an initiative to create a commission and where entity ministries would be involved and to see the possibility and real need. We are talking about child cardiosurgery, for which there is no need only in the Federation to have it, and there is no need for us to have it in the RS, if 52 will only be based on one part. We're talking about transplants, say, bone marrow; we had an expert who came to Tuzlo, came from Germany, came back and was driven away for a short time, who could work and transplants to all BiH citizens. We're talking right now about the unprincipled process that the policy has become health-related and that politics is conducting and healthcare, regardless of whether at an entity or cantonal level. This is an initiative to see if there are needs and to say clearly: at BiH level, we have so many inhabitants, it takes so many patients for children's surgery or for bone marrow transplants, we don't need so many patients. And then you'll make a deal with some clinic abroad where you'll know exactly where people are going for treatment. Absolutely, absolutely no one in the transplant counts the grain national, it is an organ transplant, it doesn't matter if it is Bošnjak, Srbin, Hrvat, Makedonac or Slovenac. It's a universal thing and we're talking about a normal process, absolutely without the need to raise tensions or entities, me and the first time I said absolutely not interested in whether this clinic is going to be in Banja Luka, Mostar, Sarajevo, Zvornik or something else. I don't care, let's help these people or make it clear we can't help you, the Health Insurance Service won't pay you or pay for that treatment abroad. Please don't let us turn this around to tell it for the sake of the story, because every day we have those stories in our neighborhood, in our city, on television and in every media, we're looking for help.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9343	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow MPs, if we could finish this agenda before the break, we would do what we intended this morning. I know that initiatives are important, but I would ask you that things that are being resolved in committees, and therefore I think that the commission should give an opinion, and not just say that it is in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Initiative, because if it were not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the College, it would not even be directed to the Commission to discuss matters in detail on the committee, and the Commission to give the House of Representatives an opinion on whether or not it supports the initiative to reduce the possibility of discussions already held on the commission, again. Dear Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9344	Mr. Chairman, I very much respect my colleague and friend, Mirsad Đugum, but I voted against this initiative, which was on the committee responsible, and it turns out once again that we are wasting time on unnecessary matters in the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly. These discussions are not productive, they are actually a reflection of what is absolutely a clear position, so jurisdiction, an area. I have also carefully read a stenogram relating to the establishment of a public health institution at the level of the BiH state. First, it's an inconclusive thing, assuming even if one of us were here, so it's not only anti-constitutional but it's inconclusive because there's no resources to do that. So let's remember that previous meetings made a decision on the establishment of this Medical Psychology Clinic, donated funds directly from the Swiss Confederation related to the construction of this facility, where an agreement was reached between the Ministry of Justice, the State Ministry of Justice and the Entity Ministry of Health, that it is a facility... which is the founder and owner of the RS government located in Sokoc and where patients will be treated there. 53 So we don't need to discuss this. I have no dilemma at all that we should conduct a debate on a poor health care system in accordance with the circumstances in which we are and that capacity needs to be strengthened in the humane sense and better health protection of all categories of BiH. We know what the situation is when it comes to transplant surgery, child cardiosurgery; at the moment it's said, we're very bad at transplant surgery where we have donors by relatives who have steam organs when it comes to, say, kidney transplants, that we don't talk about how many thousands on dialysis, how many per year does a transplant. But no problem is that the founders of such institutions are in accordance with the law, and these are cantons and entities. Also, as far as I'm concerned, as a health care professional and therefore an MP, no problem in the sense of providing health care. But I want to warn you that when we talk about it, we're not consistent... I'm not sure if we were to speak in BiH now that there are some institutions that are doubling capacity to have a unique position here. Is the statistical data of EU countries or America speaking so and so on, we have an excess capacity in that segment, so that when our interests are disturbed in this sense, we would be in such a motion that such institutions are not doubled, that they unite, even within one entity or canton or one city, let's not be naive, so interests are important. I'll remind you of one thing that we have no problem treating our insurance companies, so who are via the RS Health Insurance Fund to be treated in Tuzla, because there are clinics that are superior, so both in public and in private, and that should be respected. But I have to warn you, I know a number of cases where a Bihaq patient skips Banja Luka just because of prejudice, in this country because of prejudice, and we're not fair when we talk about it and because we don't think we should. I don't think an emergency patient should ever skip Tuzla to make it from Zvornik to Banja Luka. So there are problems. And another story... about organ transplants. I'll say one thing: I took a donor's membership card in BiH and I don't have any reservations about doing it anywhere, telling stories, it's identical, from young people from high school in Bihac that it's necessary to establish a state-level transplant centre. That's not true, it's a simple demagogue politicized story. There are in BiH health ministers' conferences, the minister, chaired by the BiH Civilian Minister. These issues there need to be discussed, including these stories that speak of... humanitarian lines or donations relating to the help of those who seek help. But I'll say one detail, I'm not sure that, with all due respect, there are unfortunately health conditions that not only in BiH cannot be helped but also in Houston: another tragedy in any way should not be in the context of any... political verbal persuasion of something that we are bad and that is because we would have it perfectly at BiH level, we wouldn't have mortality in BiH such... That's not true. I know those who strongly abuse it, unfortunately, in BiH it is always possible to cause tensions in this regard. I wanted to say, therefore, that it is possible that the health ministries of entities and canton together with the minister of civil affairs are negotiating issues of common interest. It obliges the EU to have patient passivity, not only within BiH but in the future within the member states, but it does not oblige us to establish state-level institutions, but in line with the revenues, it is possible that tomorrow, privately, this private – a public partnership will be established by some. I am deeply convinced that in a few years when the funds are privatised, people may go to Croatia because they have better health care, or they will come from Croatia or from Serbia to BiH because we have organised something better. So here was my dilemma in terms of initiatives like this. It is not... that it was a reflection of the situation in BiH how to make it better and we have, again, we have 54 dramatically worrying poor health care and a high level of isolation for health care given its quality. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9345	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9346	Thank you, Chairman. I will be brief given that in his replica too, Col. Đugum said things that I was going to say, and here is my colleague, Prodanović. This initiative should not, in my opinion, be politicised, I think, that my colleague Đugum, since the man in the medical sphere, a practitioner, had the best intentions, because he was probably drawn to this initiative by a health issue in BiH that is real. Bog did not allow anyone to be hooked up to this or to require such interventions by a cardiosurgeon, bone marrow transplant surgeon and oncologist, then any transplant surgeon. It is true that today's system in BiH, either at county and entity levels, has not arranged for the end of this matter and we are witnesses every day – or through public media, electronic, news, these jumbo positions – where people are looking for help to make a certain transplant... I had a few from the neighborhood and I myself participated in some humanitarian actions, I remember the good action of a girl from Mostar, the eighth grade, who is today a student, who had a heart transplant in Austria,... where we collected 150 thousand euros from various humanitarian actions. It's the practical things that hit, not just the family narrow and wider, but they hit the whole environment, and that's why I don't think there's any policy here. Of course, the initiative to look at the state of health, what counterpart Prodanović said to look at the state of health, to see whether or not we need a bone marrow transplant center in BiH. If we say the basis of some analysts, which we can..., it is not said here that cantonal, county health ministers and federal and health ministers from the RS – to make one analysis of how many of these patients there are, how much they cost, and to see what's more expensive, or to do some reference centre in BiH, to train people, doctors, it doesn't matter what names and last names, and to do that. Where there's going to be a center, it's less important. And so, yes, and all these others here that are numbered these things. This should not be a policy, should not be spoken here, in my opinion, where health care is, because these are our patients most end up in Italy, Austria, Germany, or throughout the European Community. But we must not forget another fact that many of ours, here we are many people sitting on medical professions, means that many of our colleagues work in these centres, means that they have completed universities both in Sarajevo and in Zagreb and Belgrade and are working on recognized, eminent clinics that do these jobs and could be used to establish such collaborations. And that's why I'm saying that I don't know why this initiative is aware that this initiative is for the initiative. I think this initiative deserves attention in any case to open up a clear and loud story about health problems. When we talk about prejudices, I come from western Herzegovina, all of our patients from western Herzegovina, since we didn't have a clinic in Mostar, so we didn't have good cardiology, we didn't have cardiosurgery, so everyone who had to go to any coronography went to Zagreb, went to Krapina Toplice, there..., but in 55 the last five years who was in Tuzla no longer mentions going to Krapinske Toplice but going to Tuzlo, so, because they recognized people that they got a quality service, and that's fortunately seducing health insurance, I think, these county and paying for such services, I don't know whether or not at your private clinic, and no one has any more prejudice. Believe me, there's no prejudice to Banja Luka either. I don't think health care should be prejudiced, that people who work in health care should do their job responsibly and professionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9347	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9348	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I explained this a little bit last time from my specific angle, but now I just came to the phone because it made me a little angry with all of us when it came to this sort of thing. One truth has come down to the pain here, it seems to me that these unfortunate and cursed divisions, which from our subconscious, do not seem to be squeezed out for a long time: we have determined that we have Serbian diseases, Croatian diseases and Bosniak diseases. It terrifies me as a human being, astounds me with such unscrupulousness when it comes to such an idea. The fourth generation of my family are doctors, these two sitting next to me are doctors, and they know it best, for the fourth generation, and I know best what a disease is, but what a cure is. The wise Kinez have said a few millenniums ago, "And the road to hell is paved with good intentions." Is there any better confirmation than this today? Guys, what are we doing? This was about a beautiful and beautiful idea that they and especially the children – I had prepared exactly the parliamentary initiative on this basis that we are discussing today, but I strictly based on where we are most sensitive, and I, as a father, as a grandfather, on children... – are dying from the most difficult and complicated diseases. Unfortunately, there is no salvation for them in BiH, but in a modern civilized Western and strong world, which has gone far in scientific research and healing opportunities, there are some possibilities, and the least possible chance of saving a child should be used... We're not even thinking about what this is about, we're just throwing it away because, for Bog's sake, it's getting in my Serbian, my Federation, my district, my this and my that. Is that what we really burned to? So where are we, people, are we looking for ourselves finally and definitely? There's another one when I mentioned the wise Kineza, attributed it to Mao CE Tung, no, and she's a few millenniums old: "It doesn't matter if the cat is black or white, but let's hunt mice." You know, sometimes we forget the wisdom that we've been left with, we deal with it like this, but I'm not gonna say a bad word. But this really hurts like a man. And something else deeply emotional, man. In 1999, our first granddaughter died on our hands, she was three years old, she was operated unsuccessfully here in the hospital, on child surgery, there was no chance of saving her life. Today she would be alive, she would be 15 years old, and if she were to be operated today, she would be a healthy child. The impotence of our surgery at that time took away the most beautiful thing in the world. And don't talk to me about some things, please. Guys, come to yourself. Be people first. Thank you. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9349	Dear Ambassador Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9350	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, here's a good part of what I wanted to say was said by my colleague Bašić. I really don't think we should spend that much time on an entirely legitimate and useful initiative. Therefore, it is clear that this initiative has its basis both in jurisdiction and in the Constitution. I spent five years at the Department of Civil Affairs, almost every day doing stories like this. So it is certain that this is useful and that this is necessary for all of us living in this country. Even at the Ministry of Civil Affairs, we had initiatives from people who live, so the people of Trebinj, Bileca, Gacka, who have legitimately submitted initiatives to us to consider the possibility that they should be treated in Banja Luka, because it is far... from these parts of BiH, to do so in Mostar. So these are some legitimate demands of people living in the field. And I think trying to put such a legitimate, justified, useful, necessary initiative into some of our daily policies doesn't make it a commitment, and I don't think it should be any of our working styles here in the Parliamentary Assembly in BiH. A colleague, Lazar, mentioned the conference, or co-ordination of the BiH health ministers, and said that they are dealing with certain of these things, I think it is one of those institutions that should consider with several of us from the Parliamentary Assembly and this initiative. I am sure that in that sense she would give useful opinions about all this and I think that this may be the best way to get those prejudices, also mentioned by counterpart Lazar Prodanović, to get rid of ourselves in the best possible way. Because if we in these institutions are saying that we should scare someone if they are being treated in Banja Luka that they will have a problem if they come from Bihac, or if they are being treated in Mostar if they come from Trebinj, then I think we are the ones who generate those divisions. And I am deeply opposed to all of this, and I am convinced that we will all understand it in one of the best ways and that one such noble and useful initiative will indeed be considered there when we come to a concrete position to determine and determine ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9351	Dear Ambassador Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9352	Thank you, Chairman. Two sentences only on this initiative. I fully agree with Mr. Šepić, and about this direction will go my proposal to the promoter of this initiative. The initiative is in place and indeed we in BiH have this problem and we are living with this problem and tomorrow each of us or a member of our family can find themselves in a situation where citizens who need to be treated at this level. So, we're kind of starting this initiative today and we're starting to get a little sharp, and then a little later when we start listening and communicating, then we come to similar conclusions. I would be free to propose two solutions to this initiative, i.e. to accept this initiative. What I can see and what is not clearly said here by colleagues from the RS, I think they dispute this sentence that says these institutions would be at the state level. And indeed, the responsibility in the field of health care is at the level of the entities, and in the Federation it is divided into the jurisdiction of 57 Federations and cantons and it has its own justification. So, the solution would be either to throw out this sentence or another solution would be that this initiative should be directed and co-ordinated by the health ministers, as Mr. Šepić spoke of, and that this initiative would be considered in this form as proposed. I think... it's a shame to waste an initiative like this that really has its own justification and I think we should take the opportunity to take a step in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9353	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9354	Maybe it was misunderstood what was said here at the state level. At the state level to treat all BiH citizens. It doesn't have to be absolutely even state-owned, it can be private, but we need to find and see if for certain diseases there is a possibility of treatment and a need to create some institution. It can also be part of any clinic and say it will be financed from the health insurance agency of Canton Sarajevo, Bridge and so on, but will be treated in Bihac. That's what we're talking about. She's not to be an institution of state character, but at a state level. For what reason? We have the mass of funds we take and the loans we take for different homes of health, hospital, and we don't have absolute capacity... So it does not mean that it is an institution of the state level of BiH, but at the state level to treat these diseases for which we have a real need to be able to treat the number of facilities, or the number of patients in BiH. That's what this is about. Not as an institution of the state, but at the state level to treat these diseases. If they were to make three centers like that, then none of them could function, because there's no money, that's what they're talking about. It is not as an institution of a state institution, but at the state level of a hospital that would provide services to all health insurance companies. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9355	I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 17, Ad. 17. Declaration on the initiative of MP Nermine Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović from the 23rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 16. 2. 2012 MP Nermina Ćemalović, excuse me, is a mistake, Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic submitted this initiative at the 23rd session of the House, held on 16. 2. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion and did not support this initiative. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9357	Everything that has happened with the previous initiative and everything I have said in this direction is also true of this initiative and I ask that this initiative be taken into account as well. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9358	Thank you. Proposer of the initiative: Honored Member Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9359	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, the initiative has experienced the same fate as the previous ones, but it is a slightly different context in which this initiative is launched. Namely, as a member of the Interresor Working Group on Election Legislative Amendment, I was considering this issue, and I saw that we, as Parliament, adopted the Central Election Commission Report last June, which proposed the adoption of the Law on Political Parties in BiH. Nothing, therefore, that has not already been adopted in this House. Therefore, a conclusion was adopted within the framework of the Central Election Commission's adopted report. I didn't do anything but initiate the initiative to do something that we've already adopted here in Parliament, now put and do and do what we said. There's a lot of conclusions here that we make, and then we say, "Puj dots don't work." We didn't bring it, didn't we think about it when we brought it? So, I'd like to remind you: if we make a conclusion here and bring it in, then I guess it has some power to do it later and do it. Why did I say it was necessary to form an Interresor Working Group, although I think this is a topic for the Ministry of Justice? It is precisely because there is already an Interresor Working Group dealing with this problem, and it should only, within its jurisdiction, add that this law should also be added. Why this law? So because this law covers part of the problem, a good part of the problem dealing with the Law on the financing of political parties, because this area, of course, is why the CIK has made such a conclusion that this area should be regulated, that it is not a regulated area, among other things, because all countries in the environment have one law and that we simply have an example of one such law in the Brcko District. So it can be taken as a model, as well as the laws that have been passed in neighbouring countries. Unlike the previous initiative, so I launched this initiative to do something that we already said here and had a positive opinion. And I do not understand at all why the Commission has not adopted this initiative, if all those who are members of this committee are from this Parliament at the same time and have adopted that conclusion. I remain with myself that this law on political parties should be passed and that, in some ways, we have already brought it here, or we have agreed to bring it, and now I see no reason why we are in this House at all, if we are to conclude something very quickly in the same term: eh, we are not going to do it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9360	Thank you. 59 No more reported. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda: Ad. 18. Declaration on Ismete Dervoz's initiative from the 23rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 16. 2. 2012 Ismeta Dervoz submitted this initiative at the 23rd session of the House, held on 16.2. In 2012. The Commission responsible for achieving gender equality delivered its opinion on 28.3. and supported this initiative. I'm opening a debate on this initiative. Dear Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9362	I thank you, Mr. Chairman, that is, the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this initiative is heading towards first respecting a legislative regulation that is quite clear and that in a certain way the process in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly will be opened in which both the Professional Services and the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat will participate and bring about a certain dynamic that will be realistic for harmonising legal standards with this initiative. So, I thank you for confirming that we respect the laws adopted in this Parliamentary Assembly and the BiH Constitution and all signed international conventions and norms and that, perhaps through the Committee on Gender Equality, we will be in a position to form expert bodies that will standardise this process and make it applicable in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9363	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 19th point, Ad. 19. Discuss the extension of the mandate to BHRT Management Board members We received a letter from the Management Board of BHRT 19. 3. which states that on 31.3.2012 the term of office of members of the Board of Directors of BHRT and asks the House to provide 60 legitimacy to the members until the election of new members. The Transport and Communications Commission held a session this morning and delivered its opinion. There are four conclusions in the opinion. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Before we move to the 20th agenda, I suggest that the House declare itself to bring together the debate on points 20 to 24 of the agenda, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratification of the agreement. I'm putting a motion to vote. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! Unanimously, without the "against" and "abstained" votes, we adopted this proposal. Ad. 20. - 24. Granting consent
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9368	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9369	What?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9370	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9371	You're asking for the vote to happen again?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9372	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9373	Here, honourable Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić requests that the vote be repeated. 62 Please prepare to vote again. You can vote now! 'For' 21, 'against' seven, 'abstained' seven; from Federation nine, an insufficient entity majority. We did the same thing, only the schedule was different. We move to the fifth item of the agenda: Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection (first reading) We vote on the Proposal for a Law in the first reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! In 30, there were four abstentions. I realize we passed this law in our first reading. 7th point: Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) We vote on the Proposal for a Law in First Reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "In" 20, "against" 12, "restricted" three. Insufficient entity majority from RS. As with previous points, we will vote on the law in the second round at the next session. We move to a vote on the eighth point: the proposal for a law supplementing Bosnia and Herzegovina's election law, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, Glasmo, on the opinion of the Commission, which is negative. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! 'For' 28, 'against' six,'restricted' one. Enough entity majority. We adopted the Commission's negative opinion and this law was not supported. Point 9: 63 Proposal for a Rules of Procedure to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading) Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9374	You voted well, what do you want us to do again?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9375	Is it the Rules of Procedure, about the Rules of Procedure? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, so the proposal for a Rules of Procedure to supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). We're voting on the first-reading draft Rules of Procedure. Repeated vote. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 34, no "against" and "abstained." I agree that we adopted the Proposed Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives in the first reading. In contact with the presidents of the clubs, I suggest that the House be immediately declared on the proposal of the Rules of Procedure for the addition of Rules of Procedure in the second reading. So, do you agree that we're going to the second reading right now, first vote. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! Thirty-five, no "against" and "restraint" votes. I find that the House has unanimously decided to move on to another reading. We are now voting on the Rules of Procedure's proposal to supplement the Rules of Procedure in the second reading. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! Thirty-five, no "against" and "restraint" votes. I find that we have adopted the additions of the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives. 64 Point 10. The Commission's report to the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for a conclusion from the Commission's Opinion on Foreign Trade and Customs on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of the Abuse of Intoxication Drugs Glasamo in the second round on this proposal for a conclusion from the Commission's opinion. Is there any need for me to read the conclusion? _________(?) Read it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9381	Then read it if he wants to do it together.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-03-29-0.u9382	Okay. Here, given that I have received a request to go to a special vote of conclusions, I will read the first conclusion: 'The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH supports the work of the BiH parliamentary military commissioner and obliges the BiH Ministry of Defence and the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces of BiH to implement the recommendations of the military commissioner.' Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! 66 "For" 27, "against" six, "abstained" was gone. Enough entity majority. I find that we have adopted the first conclusion. The second conclusion is: "The BiH Ministry of Defence and the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces of BiH are obliged to establish strong co-operation with the military commissioner in the direction of removing the perceived shortcomings shown in the 2011 report on the work of the parliamentary military commissioner. year.' Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 31, no "against" and "abstained." I realize we've adopted another conclusion. Point 14. Report on the impact audit carried out on the theme "Inhabiting the returnee" We vote on the adoption of the Report. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! In 30, there was no "restricted" five. I understand we've adopted the report. We are voting on the adoption of the proposal by MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Is there any need for me to read it? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] You don't have to. Okay. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "In" 24, "against" six, "restricted" two. Insufficient entity majority. You will receive a later report from the College on this matter. We move to point 16: Declaration on the initiative of Ambassador Mirsad Đugum from the 16th session of the House of Representatives. We're voting on this initiative. Please prepare to vote. 67 You Can Vote, Now! 'For' 21, 'against' 12,'restricted' one. Insufficient entity support. You will also receive a report from the Kolegijum on this issue. Point 17. A statement on the initiative of MP Nermine Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović from the 23rd session of the House of Representatives Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "In" 20, "against" 12, "restricted" three. Afterwards, the College will agree. Point 18. A statement on the initiative of Ismete Dervoz from the 23rd session of the House of Representatives Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. 'For' 26, 'against' three,'restricted' six. Insufficient entity majority. And with this initiative as well as the previous two, you will receive a report from the College. Moving to point 19. I am also required to vote on each conclusion individually. I read the first conclusion: 'Members of the Board of Directors of BHRT whose term of office has expired again extend the term of office to a period of 60 days, beginning from 1. 4. 2012 'years.' Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "In" 29, "against" three, "restricted" three. Enough entity majority. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. We move to a vote on the second conclusion, which reads: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly is asking the Council of Ministers of BiH to step up its activities in the next period to resolve the situation in the Public TV System of BiH." Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! For 28, there weren't four abstentions. Enough entity majority. 68 I find that we have adopted another conclusion. We move to the third conclusion: 'The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly asks the Council of Ministers to prepare and deliver to the Parliamentary Procedure for the Amendment and Completion of the Law on Communications "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 31/03, 75/06 and 32/10 and the Law on the Public TV Series BiH, "The Official Messenger of BiH", No. 92/05 and 32/10, in order to allow the amendments to the existing provisions of those laws to allow the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in relation to the re-implementation of the procedure for the appointment of BHRT members from the Croatian and Serbian people's board of directors." So we're again asking the Council of Ministers to honor our conclusion. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! For 32, there were no abstentions, three. I also find that we have adopted the third conclusion of our commission. We vote right now, if you agree, that the agreements from points 20 to 24 are declared in the package. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 33, "against" one, abstentioned one. I understand we've adopted this request. I ask the honourable MPs who have been "abstained" and "against" whether they need some approval for ratification to put as a special vote. I'll go out and meet you. [[Common discussion]]
