ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9788	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 27th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in Bosnia and Herzegovina who follow the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs and representatives of the media. Also called for at the meeting were the Ombudsmans for human rights, the presidents of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the Court of BiH, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the Central Bank, the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, the Office for the Audit of Institutions, the State Regulatory Agency for Electrical Energy and the Independent Commission for Monitoring Conditions of Stay in Prisons, the treatment and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the BiH Court of Justice's criminal proceedings, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the BiH Criminal Law or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or another court in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina's law to consider material from their jurisdiction. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. According to service information, there are 29 MPs present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the amendments and additions to the agenda, I would like to inform you that we have added item 3 to the agenda. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Act No 01,02-02-1-17/12, of 8.5.2012; Point 8. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012, Proposer: BiH Presidency, Law No 01,02-02-1-16/12, of 4.5.2012. (first reading); point 24. Extending the mandate of the Commission of Investigation to check the legality of the ammunition destruction process and mine-explosive means, weapons and military equipment, material number: 01,02-1-50-14-14-145-4/12, of 26.4.2012. On the agenda, we removed point 21. A statement on Parliamentarian Senad Šepić's initiative from the 25th session at the request of the Commission for European Integration, which submitted a request for a new deadline for submission of opinions, since the sitting was not attended by the proposing. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Ambassador Saša Magazinović. Here you go. 2
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9789	Dear Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs and others present, I warmly welcome you all. I am looking for a 25-minute break on behalf of the SDP MPs' Club after the debate on the agenda has ended and before the statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9790	Thank you. Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9791	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests, here, as you can see, there is no initiative in the agenda again that I filed more than a month ago. I would ask the College to give me an explanation of why it is so and when it will eventually be on the agenda of this initiative.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9792	If you are satisfied with the argument that at today's session of the College your initiative has been forwarded to the competent commission, the Kolegijum has found that it is the Administrative Commission. After obtaining an opinion from the Administrative Commission, there will be a point on the agenda. If there are no more reported,... we have nothing to vote since there is no change and any addition – to read the agenda and at the first next point to give you a break. If it suits you? There's nothing to plead for. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9793	Chairman, I really insist that we get a break before the agenda is adopted, since there are points of the agenda that were subsequently put in place, so before the session itself, which we did not agree to consult.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9794	At SDP's request, 25 minutes of breaks. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs, please take your seats to try to adopt the agenda from another time. The president of the SDP Club, is there any need to explain your break? It's all clear, isn't it? 3
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9796	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9797	Thank you. I'm closing the debate and let me read the adopted one today. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 26th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New Parliament issues; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Law No 01,02-02-1-1712, of 8.5.2012; 4. The request of MPs Mladen Bosić, Darko Babalj, Borislav Bojić, Aleksandra Pandurević and Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Prepared for reviewing the draft law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Law No 01-02-1-1412 of 19.4.2012; 5. The request of MP Mladen Bosić, Darko Babalj, Borislav Bojić, Aleksandra Pandurević and Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Prepared for reviewing the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Public Radio and Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Law No 01-02-1-1512, of 19.4.2012; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1012, of 16.2.12. (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Ismet Dervoz, Law No 01-02-1-412, of 19.1.2012. (Second Reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a Bill on Budget of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012, Proposed by the BiH Presidency, Law No 01,02-02-1-1612, of 4.5.2012. (first reading); 9. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, MPs Drago Kalabić and Darko Babalj, Law No 01-02-1-612, of 1.2.2012; 10. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the completion of Parliament, Dušanka Majkić, on the proposal for a Customs Tariff Law, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-12, of 11.1.2012; 11. The College's report on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of MPs Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić on the discussion of the 4 Proposal for a Law on the Prohibition of Denial, Minimising, Justification or Approval of the Holocaust, Crimes of Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity, Proposers of Parliaments Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, Law No 01-02-1-1611, of 5.9.2011; 12. Report on the activities of the BiH Institutions Audit Office for 2011, material number 014-50-19-46212, of 2.4.2012; 13. Annual report by the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, material No 01-50-19-47612, of 4.4.2012; 14. Financial Report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, material No 01-50-19-47512, of 4.4.2012; 15. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity for 2011, material No 01,02-50-19-49112, of 6.4.2012; 16. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, the foreign courts provided for in the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or international contracts signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court, in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 14.9.2010 to 31.12.2011, material No 01,02,056-50-19-50512 of 12.4.2012; 17. Annual report on the results of the BiH Ombudsman's Human Rights Institution's activities, material No 01-12-51212, of 13.4.2012; 18. Information on the establishment of functions and structures of the decentralised management system (DIS) by the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA), material of Council of Ministers No 01.02-50-19-23911, of 14.12.2011; 19. Information regarding the approvals issued for the use of the name Bosnia and Herzegovina, material of the Council of Ministers, No 01-50-19-47412, of 4.4.2012; 20. Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, material No 01-50-19-51312, of 16.4.2012; 21. Information on the situation and problems in the functioning of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, with proposals to improve the situation in this area, the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, No. 01-50-15-53412, of 19.4.2012. (on the occasion of MP Nermin Purić's initiative adopted at the 24th session of the House of Representatives held on 15.3.2012).2 / 22 Analysis of the implementation of the State Strategy for War Crimes Cases, Materials of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, No. 01-50-2-13-2612, of 1603/2012, Court of BiH, No. 01-50-19-125711, of 22.03.2012 and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, No. 01-50-19-125711, of 5.4.2012. (on the occasion of Parliament's initiative, Aleksandra Pandurević, adopted at the 20th session of the House of Representatives, held on 2.2.2012).; 23. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives in the Joint Commission in order to achieve the same text of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH; 24. The extension of the mandate of the Commission's investigation into the legality of the ammunition destruction process and mine-explosive means, weapons and military equipment, material No 01,02-1-50-14-14-144-412, of 26.4.2012. 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Republic of Slovakia on international road transport of passengers and goods; 5 26. Giving consent to ratification of the Loan Treaty (Sarajevo City Traffic Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; 27. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on Veterinary Cooperation; 28. Giving consent to the ratification of a pilot contract for the preservation and restoration of cultural heritage in the Western Balkans' conflict areas for 2008 between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission. We're moving on to the realization of the adopted agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 26th session
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9800	Nothing special, here's more technical, but to be authentic. So it refers to page 8 under Ad. 3. where is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Customs Tariff Act, so one of the participants in the discussion was Mrs Azra Hadžiahmetović, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9801	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9802	All right. So, here, it's an intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9803	Thank you. Dear colleague Petar Kunić. You signed up?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9804	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9805	By mistake, good. Please just press the tasters again. I'm closing the hearing if there's no one else reported. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Legislative Questions 6 (a) Comments on answers received By today's session, the questions were raised: Zvonko Jurišić of the Federal Ministry of Finance, asked at the 24th session; Aleksandra Pandurević of the BiH Law Department, asked the question at the 24th session and the Government of Borislav Canton, Magazinović at the Ismet session; Hadžiahmetović Bojić of the Government of Canton of Sarajevo, on the initiative addressed to the 20th session, the Government of Šemsudin Mehmedović, the initiative addressed to the 20th and 24th meeting, the Prime Minister of the Unsko-Sancanton, the Government of the Tuzlan Canton, the Government of the ZenicaIvankovićTomić Canton and the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of the Environment, on the issue of the Jean-Famidnits, Mr. Any comments on the answers received? Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9807	...that, but I want to make a suggestion. Dear Chairman, I think today's session is a very large agenda, and I think we should save as much time as we can, and so I suggest that parliamentary issues be applied in writing, and that the comments to the answers received be postponed for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9808	I respect your suggestion. This is the second part I wanted to suggest myself after I give the opportunity to comment on the questions that have come to this session. I think that only four of those who have answered will not take too much time and would still have continuity, and especially what the session is on Monday, very close: MPs ask - the Council of Ministers responds. So, whoever wants to comment, please be my guest. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. If you like, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9809	I won't comment on the answer to the question, I'll just ask one thing. Since we had a session of the Constitutional Commission the other day, 19. On January, I launched an initiative here to put the 7th point on the agenda: Analysis of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council during the trial that led to the release of the SDS vice president Branislav Garić's verdict. The chairman of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council claimed to us at a session of the Constitutional Legal Commission that VSTS analysis had come to Parliament. The review in the Analysis Protocol never arrived in parliament, and this parliament concluded that this analysis was done on August 25th last year. So I ask the sekretarijat to send an emergency to the High Court and Prosecutor's advice that we finally get an answer from them whether they do it or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9810	Thank you. It'll be done. Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9811	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Ministers, dear colleagues, I have received an answer to two parliamentary questions. The first question was about the rationalisation of the foreign ministry. I got the answer, truth be told, I hope the new minister will try to rationalize it, as he said himself, make it as efficient as possible. The second question was about keeping confidential information when it comes to the foreign ministry and destroying it. I received a very detailed answer from Mr. Sadik Ahmetović, thank you for this response and I hope the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will take into account the suggestions Mr. Sadiković made and which have proved to be correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9812	Thank you. Dear colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9813	I asked a question about higher education, actually more questions. ... In fact, I didn't get an answer, I got an answer that contains notorious facts that the public knows, so without an essential answer to my questions. It explains that the competent ministry failed to obtain information from competent institutions, from entities to cantons. I keep asking these questions, so in some ways they get answers to these questions, because these are essential questions for the BiH area. The issue of higher education is now one of the essential issues and... over these issues cannot be overcome. I think there are certain political forces, the majority political parties that should understand the essence of this problem. We have tens of thousands, now momentarily, to graduate students from private schools, not to speak, you can read daily in the daily press, that it is about buying diplomas, that there is not even nearly adequate knowledge, that crime is one of the strongest momentary crime in BiH. And so the issue of higher education is the issue of BiH space issues as a whole and so I don't know how 8 we think integration for Europe continues with this knowledge that students at private universities are gaining. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So, I'd ask you, you're a member of one big political party, if you run it on your own party, it'd be good. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9816	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9817	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues,... so my question has been answered by the Tax Administration of the Federation of BiH and the Ministry of Finance and I am absolutely satisfied, means with the answer itself, and at the same time unhappy. I had only the wrong information, when I asked this question, that legal entities dealing with gambling in the Federation of BiH owe 42m marks according to budgets or on the basis of contributions. Unfortunately, this is on 29.2.2012 56.993,000 marks. My discussion is something similar to the discussion and colleagues of Kunić, which means that here in these reports we have that individual entities, where it has been determined, have silenced the taxes of 8 million and 400, 7 million and 800, have filed certain criminal charges against the responsible persons who lead these legal entities and games fortunately and until today we have no answer. This is about the absurdity of this system and the inability of this system, but here, we state attorneys and here members of the Executive Council and the government's association can clearly see from this what kind of state we live in, how ineffective our police authorities, inspection bodies, tax administrations and all the bodies that should be dealing with this problem. And in the context, here, and today's agenda points, the budgets of 9 different levels are damaged by these great bosses who are under the auspices of certain political parties, under the auspices of the judiciary, the judiciary, whether or not they have taxed 56,993,000 marks.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9818	Thank you. No more requests for comment. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9819	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome my colleagues and colleagues. I've asked a question here to the Council of Ministers, specifically the Veterinary Office. I've received a brief analysis of the situation, as regards the selection of laboratories for monitoring the residual monitoring plan and selecting these laboratories from countries in the environment, means neighbouring states. And I would just like to add this question now, and I expect the Council of Ministers and the Veterinary Office to give us a brief report on the current state of laboratory capacities and on the accreditation of laboratories by the Veterinary Office on the state of this financial assistance provided by the UNDP to train our laboratories. Simply, here we may know what time period they will be trained to carry out analytical searches in accordance with EU and international standards. There, just a supplement of this question.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9820	Thank you. If you please, I would like to conclude this agenda item with a note that all those who have prepared parliamentary questions in writing deliver them and will be forwarded. Now we move on to the third round of the agenda (respected colleague Saša Magazinović, you're on the third point, right?) It means "Ad." 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives The Council of Ministers submitted the draft law to parliamentary procedure in 8.5.2012, with a request to be considered by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. So this is where we discuss this request and I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Borislav Bojić. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9822	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, before moving to this agenda point, I would like to ask for a brief break for the consultations that are necessary in relation to this agenda point. It wouldn't take more than 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9823	15 minutes on SDS request, 15 minutes off. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats. I will ask the president of the SDS Club, a respected colleague of Mladen Bosić, who asked for a break in front of the Club, if there is any need to explain the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9825	Our club has asked for a break to try to make a general agreement in Parliament on the principles that measures that involve saving and reduction of wages include Parliament as an institution, especially since we as parliamentarians need to raise our hands to reduce the salary to other budget users except us. I can express my satisfaction and confidence that at this joint meeting we have reached agreement on common conclusions in this regard, which allows us to support this law that is now in the proposal. And I think it's fair and correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9826	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9827	Thank you, Chairman. As a complement to what Bosić said, so all the conclusions were made, and the SDP Club had prepared some conclusions, we are withdrawing and joint conclusions will be formed during the session and until the conclusion and until the moment of the vote. And one more thing that we agreed on, which my colleague Bosić did not say, is that we agreed that this law should be monitored by the budget, so we are also considering a shortened procedure, i.e. today it is foreseen in accordance with Article 127. It's our joint agreement to go according to Article 126.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9828	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9829	Well, here, I'll try to discuss how the agenda is in the process. But it's nice to hear the ruling six thinking about justice, justice, etc. So my question is for the promoters, and it concerns point 2 and point 8, I'm talking about the procedural aspect. So, if today's Amendments and Supplements Act proposal is to be adopted by an urgent procedure, its application must start eight days after its publication in the Official Journal of BiH. And if we were to adopt today the Bill on the Budget of BiH with the conclusions of the Presidency, including the conclusion that the amendments to Article IX are being made. Article 2 The BiH Constitution will not be a reduction of salaries employed in BiH institutions, it seems to me that there will be some confusion and problems in implementation, so I would ask the promoter, it is the finance ministry, which is the proponent of both, i.e., the excuser of the budget, but also the draftr of this law, to explain how to resolve this discrepancies.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9830	Thank you. Dear fellow Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9831	Dear President, honourable MPs, the Union's MPs' club supports this idea that, at the level of the state, all members of all agencies are being reduced in accordance with the proposal, given the very difficult economic situation, and given that in the budget, which we are likely to discuss very much today, the most vulnerable categories are also deeply affected by the proposal for this new law. So, the club supports this initiative and will bring it together with other clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9832	Thank you. Is there any need for any of the motions? There isn't. He has a finance minister, Mr. Nikola Špirić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9833	Gentlemen Chairman, esteemed MPs and MPs, distinguished guests, chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, these days I hear, of course, in the media that the budget and the Law on the Implementation of Budgets does not apply to officials, ministers, MPs, I do not know, etc. So the base reduction by 4.5% applies to everything and there's no exception. So every conclusion that is being formulated I have the feeling that I need to create a public feeling of some increased concern that the Council of Ministers, as of God, did not have in mind. So there is no exception, in this proposal there is no exception, except for those institutions that are not in the system of the Payments Act. So we can't influence you because they're not in the pay law system. And there will be no vacuum, since these laws should be adopted by the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples in the same text. And you know when the House of Representatives adopted amendments to the Armed Forces Act that it adopted in September and decided to apply from 1 January. He returned it retroactively for eight months and thus created additional obligations. So we're going to define it, it's very important that we get into the essence, so 4.5%. And this is the creation through the law, so the condition 4.5% applies to 12 employees, except for those who have a salary of less than 500 KM. So there's no exception. And that's why all these conclusions that concern us all, or, well, the same conclusion in the presidency. Therefore, the Council of Ministers did not hold a debate to exclude anyone from a reduction. Here, in that sense, if I was clear. And so, we won't have what counterpart Belkić was talking about, some legal misunderstandings. But we need these amendments to the law so that someone doesn't prosecute the case as it did in the Federation so that people get court rulings and that they pay heavy interest. In that sense, we had to propose amendments and additions to the Law on Salaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9834	Just a minute, please. Take it easy. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9835	The Bureau's conclusion is to amend the Constitution, Article IX. Article 2
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9836	There's no pay cut...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9837	Until it changes, it's an integral part of the text. Now, of course the Presidency has its conclusions. I don't know if this is gonna be one reading or two readings. If there is an amendment phase, then as a conscious people we will say that there is no need for this conclusion to be found in the text of the budget, because there is a conclusion of the Council of Ministers and an address to the House of Peoples to complete the debate on the amendment of Article IX. Article 2 Perhaps by unfortunate formulation, I respect the Bureau's conclusion, he found himself an integral part of the text. Until now, when the Presidency discusses the budget, then their dilemmas and conclusions are sent to the finance ministry and it shapes them and sends them to Parliament. Now we have both us and you directly proposed by the Presidency and we need to see how and in what way. I wouldn't even mind if there was a mood and it stayed in the text, because I don't see the House of Peoples deafening that conclusion. So, I don't see anyone going to go deaf about that conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9838	Thank you. We've also moved on to the agenda points that follow. But here, no more reports. I'm closing the third item of the agenda. Moving to point four: 13 Ad. 4. The request of MPs Mladen Bosić, Darko Babalj, Borislav Bojić, Aleksandra Pandurević and Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Prepared for reviewing the draft law amending the Law on the Public Television System of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives Members of the bill submitted the proposal to parliamentary procedure on 19.4. with a request for an urgent procedure in accordance with Article 127. I'm opening an emergency hearing. I think it'd be okay if we let the promoters say so first, right? _________(?) I'll do it later.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9841	Dear Mr. Chairman, co-chairing, ladies and gentlemen MPs and MPs, distinguished guests, the problem of public broadcasting in BiH has been something that has led to the attention and concern of all those who know the importance of public broadcasters since 2005. What I would like to do today is to appeal to the ladies and gentlemen of the proposings – Mrs Krstović-Spremo-Smremo, Pandurević, Mrs Bosić, Bojić and Babalj – that because of the complexity and importance of the matter treated by points 4 and 5, and concerning their requests for an emergency procedure, withdraw this emergency procedure and enable us to discuss this matter, which is of general importance and of the importance for the functioning of the entire society in BiH, in a regular procedure and to allow all of us to participate constructively in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9842	Thank you. Here's a suggestion that the 4th and 5th points unite as a debate, if you agree, so we can discuss both. I think that's the point. Ad. 5. The request of MP Mladen Bosić, Darko Babalj, Borislav Bojić, Aleksandra Pandurević and Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Prepared for reviewing the Bill on Amendments to the Law on the Public Radio and Television Service of Bosnia and Herzegovina by emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives 14 Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9844	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Respected members of the Council of Ministers, I must admit, indeed, that the colleagues of the SDS have put this together a little clumsyly, probably in a hurry to get to Parliament as soon as possible, clumsyly. I'll tell you why I think it's clumsy. Article 17. The Law on the Public TV System says: "Every household and legal person on BiH territory owned by a radio or television receiver is obliged to pay a monthly fee for the possession of the receiver under the conditions of a certain law. The income from the RTV tax can only be used to finance the basic activity of public broadcasters and the income tax is not subject to tax obligations." So, this law requires that solidarity with all other owners of the TV apparatus is involved in funding public broadcasters as social needs. In line with that, the RTV tax is paid directly to the emitter. What we once pay through Telecom, it's just someone who collects those funds, which is one of the elements of insurance for financial independence. So, I think colleagues really need to withdraw these two bill proposals, because funding from the budget is not a way to achieve the financial independence of public services, because it is just a decision to pay a RTV tax in order not to make that addiction visible. And secondly, if we propose this law, we must immediately have the position of the government of the Federation, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of Ministers that funds will be provided in the budget of those institutions that finance broadcasters. So we can't pass the law without knowing if they'll accept it. I think the colleagues of the SDS will find a way to find an explanation for themselves and withdraw these two proposals. Thank you in advance for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9845	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9846	I, unlike Mrs. Majkić, think that this has been very skillfully done, especially when it comes to arguments, which are absolutely acceptable to me, so when it comes to citizens, opposition parties, the attitude of public broadcasters towards everyone, etc., it all stands. However, there is no argument for an emergency procedure. The emergency procedures are in the following: with these six members of this simple seemingly law, we practically cancel all results of the ten-year reform system and return things to the beginning. Such an intention requires a serious debate, consultation and preparation. So I can't support this emergency procedure request for these reasons. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9847	Thank you. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9848	To me, these bill proposals... are completely acceptable, understandable and justified and the HDZ Representatives' Club will support them. I agree with the argument given by the SDS and PDP Representatives' Club. It is more than obvious that public services, in particular some public service entities in BiH, are not in the office of all BiH citizens, and that despite this fact, mentioned by a respected colleague, Majkić, and which should in principle be worth that paying this fee is a guarantee or a certain guarantee of their independence, the practice has shown that this is not the case – that these public services are often very biased, very politically colored and that it would be best if payment of their work was carried out by certain political parties. It would best correspond to what certain public services offer. When it comes to the Public TV system, you know, attitudes are known, not only of HDZ but of more or less of all parties coming from the Croatian electoral body: we are dissatisfied with the existing Public TV system and that is the additional reason why the Croatian people in BiH generally do not pay a radio-TV fee. We believe it is necessary to reform the Public TV System as quickly as possible and this SDS Club initiative may be one step in this direction. However, I agree... that it would be better if we discussed this in a regular procedure, so first, second reading. I don't think there's much need for urgency. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9849	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9850	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I may also be able to understand the reasons why the proposings were motivated to come out with one such proposal, they are not actually hidden. They are contained in the dissatisfaction of the promoters with the editorial policy or the overall work of public services. I think that comes from this argument. And we can be more satisfied or unsatisfactory, of course, to take action to bring it into certain standards, into certain frameworks, but the way this is proposed is something that, in my opinion, is totally unacceptable and unacceptable and is directly related to what was already being discussed here. Therefore, the public service by its definition cannot be financed from the budget. It must have financial independence, and the TV subscription is actually a financing system that allows for this independence. If we want to have a public service, then it can't be on the budget, as proposed here, it has to be funded in the way it's financed. I'll just remind you to say it before the '90s. in BiH, there was this system. And to that extent is that independence, I think today is how it is in practice, that television is, so bh. TV, they had the right to issue payment orders, so to enter, to take 16 procedures and segments of the judicial authority and to make the payment order an executive order in court in an executive procedure. So that's how it went. I don't think we should choose that. This should be watched as to how to improve the TV billing, we should watch how the Public Service works professionally in accordance with standards, and we cannot lift their financial independence. That's it. That's why the SDA Club will be against the procedure, and whatever the procedure is, we can't finally support this law and we'll be against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9851	Dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9852	Saving time for all of us, I do not want to repeat what my colleague Džaferović said that I absolutely agree with, so once again I am putting an accent on what he has already said. Therefore, the public service must have financial stability, not that it depends on the political will with which amount it will be provided in the budget and whether it will be in the budget at all. Therefore, independent of the very procedure that will be, this law is unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9853	Replica, dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9854	Well, I can't help but look at Mr. Magazinović's comment that the public service must have financial stability. Well, our public services have a lot of financial stability. Only one has a positive financial business. The second one should've gone bankrupt a long time ago, and the third one's outside the bankruptcy door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9855	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished colleague Saša Magazinović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9856	If I said stability, then I made a lapus, I meant independence, and I'm not going to comment on this rest of the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9857	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague of Ismet Dervoz. Here you go. 17
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9858	Dear Mr. Chairman, I call on my colleagues and fellow MPs to focus on what these proposals are about for an emergency procedure. So this is where you talk about a tv cab. TV tax is not what is paid for programmes to public broadcasters, one, the other or the third. TV tax is a resource, a frequency spectrum of the state that we use by owning radio or television receivers. We are discussing the programme policy of public broadcasters and their independence, the way they create their programmes. I think there are other ways and means, even within the law that exists, that broadcasters are disciplined that they must be public broadcasters and in the service of all BiH citizens. Just so we don't get away from what's the core.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9859	Thank you. The bottom line is we're discussing a request of 127. Dear colleague Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9860	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, certainly that the issues related to the functioning of the Public TV System in BiH are always interesting issues and, as far as the debate is concerned, we are always going back to the same thing, and this is the editorial policy of the members of the RTV system of BiH. It is no secret that public broadcasters are very often in the function of individual parties, certain authorities in a given space, etc. And we won't be able to change it this way. I can kind of understand the reasons and motives for proposing such legal solutions, but on the other hand, we must do what is expected of us, so to create a stable RTTV system at BiH level that will be, as counterpart Dervoz said, in the role of citizens. And there are, of course, other ways to achieve what we object to when we talk about the tv service, which is responsibility, professionalism, etc., decriminalisation of slander was not a good solution and did not contribute to better and more responsible behaviour, more professional behavior of journalists and media in BiH. And perhaps there should be some debates in that direction, or insist on achieving an adequate level of responsibility for the spoken public word, and that responsibility must be the same for those of us sitting in these benches, and for those who convey what we say, and for all those who speak public words in BiH. There needs to be another system of responsibility. Then we wouldn't have a situation if we were trying to solve questions like this when it comes to the functioning of the tv system. I will not personally support these suggestions. I think this is not a good way to go and that there are much better and more efficient ways to introduce more order in this area, and to the satisfaction of all of us and in the interest of BiH citizens whose name we and public broadcasters should work on, so everyone in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9861	Thank you. The second vice-president, distinguished colleague Denis Bećirović, who cannot register, and I know you will later. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9862	Okay. So I also think this shouldn't go by emergency procedure. There's a lot of arguments why you don't have to accept a request like this. Some of them have been told, and I'm going to try to say some more that we haven't mentioned in the debate so far. The first thing is that such a bill does not only change the provisions relating to the way public service is financed, but changes the provisions already with the institutional position of public services. Secondly, I do not think a serious argument has been offered for such radical changes to the laws that define the role and obligations of the Public Service as one of the basic institutions in the process of democratisation and society. Thirdly, what is very important to say about this occasion is that it is about the Law, so we would change the Law whose essential provision has not yet been implemented, which is the formation of the Public Service Corporation. Finally, the fact that there is also a European Commission Recommendation, so-called Recommendation R96, and I will have to read this in particular, which requires all EU member states and those joining it to ensure the institutional independence of public services through a stable source of funding and editorial independence that implies the elimination of political influence. So from this, I last quoted it, it's very clear what kind of relationship this commitment is with these changes and additions. In the end, I find it very important that we get opinions and public services in these changes, especially when proposed by an emergency procedure. We didn't even get their opinion on it here. Therefore, I will conclude with this, this does not only change the way of funding, and this changes the legal position and structure of the Public TV System of BiH, of course if it goes as proposed.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9863	Thank you. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9864	Just for a little while. I agree with what counterpart Bećirović said and with what he quoted. However, the fundamental problem here is that we don't have public services. What you're quoting is about public service. In BiH, unfortunately, we don't have public services. What's the way to get them I don't know, it stays for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9865	Now we'll hear... Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9866	Well, I understand that it's very hard to really separate the discussion from the procedure and the metrics, but we're really crossing the boundaries. And I'm asking really, really, really, my colleagues, because there's a very difficult college to intervene with, and I'm really asking my colleagues to discuss the procedure. Otherwise, things should change in the Rules of Procedure. When we discuss it, we'll see that we change this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9867	Thank you. But here, don't waste too much time, let's move on. Dear colleague Mladen Bosić is up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9868	Thank you, Chairman. So, to be clear about this situation, what was the motive for this request. That's exactly what my colleague Franjičević said. This means that the Public Service in BiH is not a Public Service, it is not the service of all citizens and it is not even the service of most citizens. You don't have a single service that can be called Public Service by these three broadcasters. Citizens do not feel such a service as their own, do not understand or understand why they should pay for something that does not meet two basic conditions in order to be a public service. The first condition of the Public Service is that it is politically impartial, i.e. to satisfy the views of most citizens and to represent attitudes and even more of those who are in the minority, to hear the voice of the opposition and minority political representatives and to have no cheerleading affinity as these public services in BiH do. And precisely, our desire to draw attention to this work of the Public Service and the consequences of such political work on the situation and the state of the country were a motive for proposing this law. Why, as a citizen, who is convinced that public services do not work in my interest, should I pay for their work out of my pocket? This isn't the ideal solution we've suggested. If these public services are financed from the budget, they will work for the establishment that determines the budget, that is clear. But they're still working for those same people. So we didn't lose anything if we just made it clear that that's the situation. Practically, they are now state public services or entity public services and are not the service of all BiH citizens who pay their tax. There are many reasons, since this is a debate on the procedure, there are many reasons why we have as an argument that something needs to be changed deeply and that this is not the way to pay something that works against the interests of the citizens themselves. So isn't it clear here that, among other things, public services as well as other media are one of the causes of the constant crisis in BiH? Is it not clear that public services are actually deepening the crisis here and that they should not be those who express political views, but those who convey political views? It's clear to me that there are those who would want this to stay this way. It is those who, above all, think that such public service is working in their interest to promote their political ideas. And we are aware that this should be led to a more detailed and much deeper debate we accept the proposal of a few MPs and Mrs Dervoz, and there have been other proposals, that we do not send this law into emergency procedures. We transfer it to a regular procedure and even expect a much wider social debate to be opened on this very important subject. 20 So, we're withdrawing the emergency procedure request and with that... these two points of the agenda don't have to be current.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9869	I hope we can find a way to stop this replica and the discussion, given that people have retreated. Okay. So the same goes for the fifth point. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Agency for Investigation and Protection, Proposer: Council of Ministers (second reading) At the 25th House session, held on 29.3.2012, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The Joint Commission for Defence and Security provided the report in 8.5.2012. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Comrade Kalabić, is this still in the replica by mistake or what? I find that there are no reports under the sixth item of the agenda. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Ismet Dervoz (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9872	Thank you very much. Well, let me say a few words about the amendments themselves. But first, before I say one more word, I think this House of Representatives should adopt a 21st conclusion that all the proposings are obliged to consult the legislative sector on the making of amendments. We have a large number of amendments that are not legal norms, which are technically inconsistencies, which are ambiguous and which, God Bog, if they are adopted what these laws will look like. So, with all due respect to all the people sitting here, but we're not all lawyers and we don't all know well enough to write an act and it's no shame to ask people who know it. And inside the House of Representatives, we already have the Legislative Sector, and I've realized several times so far that these people are doing a really good job and we can have exceptional support from them. That's the first thing. As proof of this, please look at these three amendments which have every additional reason, not to get into the essence, just to talk about them in a technical sense: whether or not they should be adopted. It is said in Amendment I that an impact review referred to in Article 1 of this Article will be selected, taking into account the most important aspects of the programme, process or activities in which the institutions referred to in Article 11 of this Act participate, under the programme to strengthen the performance audit function and the extension of the capacity to audit the impact provided by the Office for the Audit of the Institutions of BiH as an integral part of the draft of its annual budget under the provisions of Article 5. If a man wanted to analyze this piece by piece, things should change there. So, here, the promoter obviously thinks that there should be some document called 'The Programme for Strengthening Impact Review Functions', but it explicitly states not as a point that should be introduced into this law, but rather one unknown document introduces in the process of adopting the budget. So it should really work a lot to get this amendment in shape to be satisfactory. amandman II., same thing again. Budget items have been discussed in which errors in the findings have been repeated. I remind you that we have revised findings and the institutions are obliged to follow the review recommendations. So the recommendations are which institutions should deal with. It says here: error in the findings. I'd really like someone to explain to me what, what kind of error are these in the findings? Is this the audit office that made the mistake of finding it? I'd really like to ask the general auditor to show himself about it, because I really don't know the concept of'mergences in findings'. That the budget items in which errors have been repeated are again thought to be found, according to audit findings or other budget items with the same effect. Well, wait, I'd like someone to really explain what these other budget items are, which is the effect, what measure is. And in the end, amandman III., which may be a symbol, makes it even more complicated. If the institution is punished and it is later seen that the punishment of the institution has failed because there is no, we took their money from the budget, and then they cannot work, eh, then they return to Parliament, and they say they have made a mistake, then they are obliged to take no more than 60 days from the adoption of the measure to the Parliamentary Assembly of the document reviewing activities with designated deadlines and the names of the persons in charge to overcome the shortcomings. Get us a plan to get rid of him, and we'll pay you back that money. So, I don't think there's too much to explain, and I think it's terrible to look at it like this, I don't think there was any reason why my colleagues didn't consult with the legislative-legal sector. Mr. Kabil, I am therefore of the best intention of respecting our review, because she is the only thing we have left, even though she should do significant repairs in her work. If we take down what we've built so far and introduce what's not clear, I don't know what that's gonna look like. Thank you. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9873	Ambassador Emir Kabil signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9874	Dear President, honourable MPs, I am obliged to replicate Mrs. Majkić's remarks. As chairman of the Finance and Budget Commission, I have been well involved in this process and for the past six or seven months I have worked intensively on an analysis of the complete audit, as it is one of the important items of this commission. I must immediately say that in our last session here, some honourable MPs have made it clear that amendments and amendments to the draft must be brought together, first of all, with those who will work, and that is the revision. Respecting the principled position that this must be agreed, and not brought by incompetent people, our proposing has consulted, first of all, the chief auditor of Mr. Šeg, who, in accordance with our agreement, promoted or delegated the Committee of Experts, unfortunately, Mr. Šego was not present, but the expert of the Office of Audit, who has analysed all these amendments, wrote so ravingly, as you say. That's what they agreed to at the seven experts' meeting and the proposing that lasted, so I'll tell you, six or seven hours with everything possible, as much as you said, _________________(?) Four and a half hours. EMIR : four and a half hours, with all possible consultations with the legal department that knows this problem, I don't know this problem, and with the people of the Audit Office. Therefore, the promoter is not inconclusive. Why? Because the impact review is crucial to us. And this formulation was very complex for me too, I agree, but the impact review itself as a motto of our changes in which you have initiated very positive thousands of positive things (forgive me, don't forget) and which you have also made me slowly explore this area, because it clearly defines how many effects, how much money is spent, you have clearly, explicitly said taxpayers' money for a variety of things. I don't think, at the very least, it's correct to derogate the initiative and the idea of a promoter. So, I want to be explicit, everything is consistent: form, form, language. I agree absolutely with you, or Mr. Shaga's office. I think Mr. Šego knows all these details. Why does that change now, and what interests are, I don't get into it, I probably don't have much parliamentary experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9876	MP Salko Sokolović applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9877	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, to say that the SDA Club will support both the amendments and the amendments and the amendments to this law, particularly since we have the Opinion of the Audit Office that it agrees with these amendments and the amendments in 23 terms of the additional consultations that have been carried out with the proposal, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, that we are in the regular procedure, means, in the first reading, it also highlighted certain remarks on amendments that were in the first form, and it concerns harmonising the budget in those institutions if... its reduction threatens the business of the institution concerned. It is now removed in these amendments. And what we specifically pointed out in the first debate is that all these penalties or, let's say, warnings are directed towards the institution's manager. So we asked to protect the institutions so that she wouldn't put herself at risk in her business. And I think... and we in the U.S.A. have put that through these complementary amendments is respected what we have made as an observation. Finally, I will remind us once again that we in the current Audit Law have the possibility, so Parliament, based on the findings and recommendations and the annual audit report, carries out certain budget cuts. We have done this for many years here in Parliament, we have reached conclusions, we have done all this in the form of the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly, as a summary opinion based on all the revised reports, forwarded to the Council of Ministers and the Council of Ministers so far has not adequately responded to these conclusions. We believe that what has been in the law so far has been a recommendation, it has been in some way advisory, I think that through this amendment of the law we now have a new imperative form. And here, let's see if the conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly based on audit reports will now be respected by the Council of Ministers in such a defined law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9878	The word has Ismet Dervoz's emissary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9879	Here, I'd like some Mr. Domazet, so...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9880	I'm sorry, did you sign up for the discussion? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9881	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, on the Finance and Budget Committee, we have had a broad debate on the amendments to this law and amendments that have been proposed. We have expressed the view of the SDP that the existing legal framework also provides the possibility to take adequate and effective measures by Parliament towards the Council of Ministers, i.e. according to the Executive Authority, and that no specific legislation should be regulated in terms of stronger repressive functions of legislative action to improve views under the recommendations of the audit. However, we have concluded with further consultations and discussions at the SDP Club that we will give support to this law, these amendments to this law, especially given that parts of amandman III., which were related to the impact review, have been acceptable to us since the very beginning, and with further arguments we will accept and vote for this law. Thank you very much. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9882	Thank you. Ismeta Dervoz applied for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9883	You want to go sooner?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9884	... MP Darko Babalj.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9885	What's the point? I think that as responsible people, or MPs in the largest legislative body in BiH, we had a review report for 2010 and we had no problem looking at the report, where we had a large number of BiH institutions with which the report was with the reserve. In the report – we remember the long-term debates in Parliament where we spoke and audit warned us that we have institutions, ministries and agencies, which violate the laws, precisely decidently stated, where it is said – this ministry violated the Public Procurement Act, this agency violated the Public Procurement Act. There's a lot more, a lot of things, but here's not to be too long, there's something that's not done with the law. And after our exhaustive discussions on both the Commission and Parliament, we have a situation that nothing has happened. Mrs. Dervoz' motive as I realized it was simply that we, as responsible people, MPs, are starting something, and I don't even know how we're going to get out of this after these discussions, to rise above the situation in BiH as Parliament and to draw attention to the fact that in this country someone isn't doing their job. If the audit turned a blind eye, and we didn't have any objection to the revision, if we took it into knowledge, and not only did we take it into knowledge but we brought a series of, a series of conclusions that were not respected in the end, I don't know why I'm sitting here. And I'm reasoned that these conclusions were not respected. Here, we'll have the eighth item of the agenda, and we'll see that these conclusions are not respected. We ask the question, here's the question of motive and which I understand, and that's why we've been to this bill on amendments and amendments to the law, but we certainly have a situation where someone else isn't doing the job that needs to be done, and neither are we. What... what we get if this bill goes through, according to us, is that I think we have more pressure on the revision, whether it's a solution, it's not, that it's a repressive measure that does something to us that someone else should do. That's why I said, how we're going to get out of this, I don't get it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9886	The word has Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9887	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the review is concerned, I think we did, at least when the Budget and Finance Commission, did a lot last year and held a debate on all the smallest details to point out their weaknesses and failures to the institutions over which the audit was carried out. In some we have done it in a good, correct way, and we have succeeded, where people have expressed a certain regret about what has happened to them 25, and others have had less impact. The existing legal frameworks did not bother us at all to launch an initiative for a certain responsibility. Here, when it comes to accountability, we should not interfere with criminal responsibility, because that is why other institutions are competent, but for one political responsibility for the irrational spending of state resources, this should be launched at the level, that the initiative should be launched with the commission and here to be adopted at Parliament. So the existing law allowed us to do that. We haven't done that in any of the so far. I greatly appreciate Mrs. Dervoz's commitment, which in her best interest wanted with this law, that we might highlight some things more, that we should speed them up in a certain way and be the real protectors and guardians of the state register, so to speak, as rationally as possible. And I appreciate that, too, but we changed our minds the moment that, I just explained it here last time, the service, the consulting house from Sweden, it seems to me, when she begged us not to, because that's why we're going to break the system... that we've been working on for a long period of time. I have to say that the Office of Audit is one of the better institutions and that it does its job in a very correct way. For these reasons, if they were not themselves for these certain changes, and the consultants say that it would not be, if it were not in line with European regulations, for these reasons we said we would not support this law. And what Mrs. Majkić was talking about, I think, in principle, all the laws and amendments, since most of us are not lawyers here, should go through the legislative service, which will adequately shape and prepare and give some consent and things that are not meant to be regulated by this law and should not stand in this law. For these reasons, the intentions are very good and it is extremely correct that things like this get a little bit too heavy and I fully respect and support it, but let's not build too many laws, but let's turn to their realization with the already existing ones that we have, not to make a fuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9888	Replica, Ambassador Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9889	Dear President, honourable MPs, I would briefly replicate my honourable MPs, Mr Babalj and Mr Tomić. To change a decision based on a consulting house is somewhat surprising, especially from MPs who are struggling with all their strengths to make home-wise and domestic knowledge predominant in all our decisions. This house, which has come to us, I say responsibly, has put additional pressure on us before that meeting, should not affect the opinion of experts working on this programme. Why am I saying that? That's what I'm saying because they're just consultants, they're not paid to make decisions for us. So, I'm a little surprised that we depend on consultants. Unfortunately, I also support the many efforts of MPs from another entity who clearly say that we have to stand by and make decisions, so that sometimes the wrongs that we will correct, and not depend on the external consultants who have come and gone and who have paid for the whole educational process, but does not mean that if they pay us that they have to make us change our minds too. I have to say something here, to say what I didn't mean to say, there are problems in the Audit Office and I publicly apologize today for the deputy chief auditor, Mrs. Trninić, who is not here, who has suffered additional and very difficult attacks, because I was not critical enough to see the whole situation when she pointed out certain problems. There are problems in the office, and as a consequence of these problems that exist in the office is inconsistencies of the same office when it comes to arrangements. We 26 can play, we can make plans, we can commit to consultants and any other organization, but we have to be at least a little principled. Because if we're principled, we have to make those decisions that we've made, whether they're 100% accurate, quality, that's something else, we have to respect. That would be my comment on these, I'd say, analysis of my distinguished colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9890	Replica, MP Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9891	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I, Mr. Kabil, highly appreciate and respect you, and I think that we have very correct relations in the work on the Commission, and I think that in most cases we agree. You didn't dispute that I could think differently, but just for your information, our decision wasn't made on the grounds that the consultants came by and told us, but based on the consultations that we had done at the Ministry of Finance and with certain professional services, and that was why we didn't, which is why we decided not to support it. Therefore, no individual, nor any institution, can influence our attitude to change unless there are relevant arguments. I always respect the arguments, and I am prepared, if we are proved today that this is necessary and necessary, that it will improve work, I am prepared to correct my position.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9892	Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9893	Also, I want to tell Mr. Kabil, so nothing in my feeling, thinking and analysing what we're doing, when it comes to reviewing, hasn't changed for yoga either, but what the seriousness requires is that we often have to question our views, especially when it comes to specific occupations and specific jobs. And no one argues that there is anything to do in this country, but Parliament to deal with, by implementing it. It is necessary to amend the Law on Audition, I agree, but it needs to be done carefully, to create a group that will sit down with the revision and make changes where it makes sense. But these changes will be of no value if this parliament resolves the issue of audit reports in the way it has addressed them so far. So the seriousness of this parliament depends on it whether we change the situation in society. So far, Parliament has made no contribution to changing the situation in society, in terms of crime and corruption, except for the declaration, which means changing the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9894	The word has an MP Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9895	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Fellow representatives, guests, I debated the last time we debated in our first reading and absolutely welcome the efforts of the distinguished representative to repair this matter. This is certainly a matter that is very interesting, it is quite populist and the public likes to hear and 27 usually when someone points a finger at someone and often it has been used for this speaker, more or less than most people, as at some point the political environment was responding. I will repeat what I said last time, that we are in the process of establishing a system and developing its transparency and I think we have done well in that part. As a fact, I'm only going to specify one thing, and here's one of the next points is the Budget; when I was appointed as State Minister, then the Budget was on a few-tenths of pages; when I left that function, it was about a few hundred pages. So it's all about transparency, in the function of public, transparent and concrete spending, effective spending of public funds, and, of course, disabling any abuses. Anything that can be fixed I'm always for it. However, when I look at this article 16 I believe that it, Parliament has enough instruments in this function of its action just to develop the system further and more transparently and to enable everything that comes out of it. I'm just going to mention here this formula of "recovered findings." So look, doing this job, what does the retrieval mean? How can we have a repeat report, say, on the purchase of a building? Once you buy the building, there's no retrieval. And since we're going to have a repeat report on certain activities: we had an EXPO fair, it was the last time here at a session, which gave me a headache two years ago how to fund it, it doesn't happen again, once again, and these repeated findings aren't in vain. Another thing I want to say is, there are also systemic problems that are not being solved. One of the laws most mentioned and possibly worst in BiH is the Public Procurement Act. And a lot of problems were the people in the implementation, the spending of funds because of the law. As a minister, while it was in my jurisdiction, and then it went to the Public Procurement Agency, we launched dozens of times changes and additions to this law and, if anything needs to be changed in this country, it is necessary to amend and amend that law. ...never passed this parliament. Who's got the repeat report, who's gonna answer? And as minister, I got the fine you suggested, I think that Mrs. Majkić was a pronoun, the ministry was fined by 2% or 2.5% of budget cuts, because she didn't prepare the regulations, I don't know, on the use of mobile phones, I don't know, the use of official vehicles, and I made it all finely prepared and didn't pass on to the Council of Ministers, the penalty to the Ministry of Finance. How are we going to punish the Council of Ministers? I need, I don't know, eight, nine hands to pass, etc. So these are all things to think about. And that's why I'm saying it's a process and we have to approach it that way. I don't disrespect it at all, but I also congratulate you on doing this, to think about it, and to see how we can do it, and if we go through with this, that's how it's done. I'd like to mention this, when it comes to the Brcko District Co-ordination Committee. No colleagues from Brcko District will be angry, but we had practice everywhere – in the Council of Ministers, the Central Bank, the Fiscal Council – that they were on the Management Board of Administration, etc. that they were observers. Well, if that's the case, then not members, but observers within this coordinating body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9896	MP Adnan Bašić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9897	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 28 Of course, me and Mr. Zvonko Jurišić are the vice presidents of our Administrative Commission who had a lot of problems with the audit report and all the conventions it achieves, here you can see today. We talked several times with the members of the review team, we had a lot of anomalies that we saw, just like all of us here who were having a discussion about all those reports we were getting. However, this proposal and everything that we're discussing today has one of the biggest anomalies and the greatest painful point that no one will solve all these years, which is an impact review. Don't be angry, but believe me, if this is accepted as something that has to be done finally and definitely, you'll realize that, let's say, those audit reports we've been getting since 2009, 2010, 2011, so here's the period of 2012, it's always going through all their reports. The problem with this solution is a very big problem. You have incredible symptoms of in vain spending huge funds from the budget. Pe can't spend 5 million marks, and its effect is 5% for a whole year and nobody's answering and there's no sanctions for that kind of thing. That is exactly what it is required to finally and definitely really exclude that one anomaly from the enormous spending of these funds. I do not want to discuss what many MPs here have said: unintended spending of funds, purchases that are also one of the cancer wounds, etc., you all know very well what's going on in those audit reports. But the impact review is really something that is repeated year after year, from any set of Parliaments to another set of Parliaments and we get on the table the same reports. There's a lot of money coming in, nothing's done for them, the review report shows that the effect is pathetic and poor, but some fat money takes in for it. And right now when we're trying to solve it, here's what it all comes down to. I would really ask that we get a little serious, because if someone is just that one move to make the Revision Act better and that there really is no more appeal of citizens and of all other institutions who and how they oversee our work as parliamentarians, I think this is a very good solution, so we have to stand behind it, although many will not like it. I really have to support my colleague, not because she's the Alliance for a Better Future, but which is very real what she suggested and we have to do it. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9898	Ambassador Slavko Jovičić came to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9899	Dear Chairman, distinguished guests on the left and those who have left, ladies and gentlemen, I would always support initiatives to improve and amend and supplement laws that will really contribute to the improvement of whatever sector. We've had here and we have audit reports every year, of course we commend the auditors for doing good, we make conclusions, and that lasts, here's six years, at least I'm a witness. I repeat my old story again, maybe you should never have reserved this front row or maybe you should stand here and ask these guys how they spend it. What is it, a thief is so much like us, I support Mr. Babalj, we as responsible people, to whom I am not responsible, man, I can't do anything to see a thief leaving with handcuffs, but I saw in the budget a planned reduction and it's good, we have to cut salaries, here, but it goes to the public that they are reduced by MPs, who will be the most reduced and the ministers, and so it should be. But please nice, I haven't seen any agency executives, I've seen, I've examined a good budget, everyone's going with some increases. So what's an administrative worker's fault at some agency that his manager stole? What's his fault? But the increase in budgets has affected him too, and what are we going to do? 29 Here we need a summary report of all our conclusions. Who did we commit to be responsible for the thieving? No one. Where are my SIPA gentlemen, where my D.A. gentlemen are from our agencies to say, "People, while that Slavuj was talking about thieves, we've already done one." No, they'll come looking for me, but I don't know what. And they're asking me to at least give a statement about who's stealing it. So far, we have a good revision law, we have good reports of theirs, we have good analysis, but we have to make sure that's binding. We're just wasting our time discussing how well it's done, how someone got a recommendation there, and that recommendation, seeing these thieves who steal that money that they'll never answer, that's exactly how good it is to them, to continue, 'no one can do anything, we're stronger together', she has a good song. And we're going to have the same theme again, someone's going to remember the amendments and the additions to this law, and so far we've done nothing that this Parliament really does, based on the existing laws, invites anyone to responsibility and says: "People, don't steal anymore, there's plenty of thieving in this country! Now, I need that initiative, and I need the law changes, and I need the bolument of thieves here to see them steal. And the fact that he's given you an auditor, it's an honor, a recommendation, a recommendation that he commits, that I get mad here, and as one, the Slavuj came forward and talked about some thieves. For what? For who? We're responsible, but who? The worst that those who need us to respond, I never see them here and they're never there, that's the problem of this Parliament and the problem of functioning and this country, not amending and supplementing the law. Whatever the laws are, we must at one time admit that these thieves don't want them to respect them, or respect them just so that they steal because no one can do anything to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9900	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9901	I'll do it very briefly. I was talking about the reasons why I wanted to support the amendments and additions to this law at the session when it was proposed. But here, I feel the need for a few more sentences to say in that sense. So what Slavko was talking about is happening right now, so these amendments and additions to this law seem to me to allow in a more serious and more concrete way to call on the responsibility of the people who are committing violations. That's one thing. Second, argument. So, this law has been in force for six years and it's perfectly logical to run one analysis, to make estimates, to see where it can be corrected and what else can be done. I must admit that the promoter has shown exceptional tenacity and willingness and co-operation. So people have indeed shown their willingness to talk to both the Office and the Commission and the consultation, etc., and everything has been done and I am now amazed by what happened in the meantime. But here, therefore, by staying in favour of these amendments and additions, I still think that this law does not practically marginalise us, nor devalue Parliament's importance, but rather gives it instruments and strengthens its role. That's one thing. And, when it comes to this preventive action and good European practice, we really have to agree with our reality where we still, to be this kind of picturesque, can't have a cop without weapons. That's what this is about, so I will continue to support this law. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9902	Dear colleague Petar Kunić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9903	Very brief, ladies and gentlemen. So we discussed these things very often and discussions are repeated. I think we're wasting our time and having a really empty walk in this House, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, really, In fact, we have said in due time that this Parliament bears the greatest part of the blame for this situation. A parliament that has not regulated legal regulations for certain areas. Here, the former finance minister mentioned an area I have apostrophe in this parliament on several occasions, so the Public Procurement Act. We have some reports saying that huge assets are being robbed from the community right through the Public Procurement Act. So, the existing political structures know about it, I don't believe they don't know, that they recognize these things that are most important, they don't want that law passed, they don't want us to provide for penalties. There's no punishment without a provision in the law. So that's why the prosecutions are returning, so the courts don't judge,...here's zero points..., there are no, you don't have, you can't punish anyone if it's not prescribed by law, you can't attach everyone's abuse of public authority, public authority, abuse of office. You can't apply it to every situation. The law must be clear, precise, short. I'm looking at the salary bill that was proposed today, so it's absurd. The people who suggested it don't know what a substitute is, what a civil servant is, what a chosen person is. So, they mix these things up. And today and tomorrow, we will have the interpretation of this law and it can be interpreted in different ways, if it goes like this, and obviously it will go like this. Well, you know who's chosen, you know who's the furniture guy, you know who's the civil servants. And then, if you know those categories, then you have to tie facts to those categories, not mix that you just don't know, you see that it's a total mess of the law of one that's inapplicable, and that's why this Parliament is guilty because it doesn't control executive power. I am back in Parliament and I see that the relationship between the executive and Parliament does not exist at all. The executive power is not responsible for Parliament, the BiH Parliament must put first control of the executive power – the Council of Ministers, and this is not in a position to do so. Gentlemen, you majority parties agree on this. As far as I'm concerned, I'd have arranged very quickly, as Slavko said, when it comes to thieves and thefts, very quickly. And that's where we'd have to agree, at least, to prevent these deviations coming out, that we're not always discussing an empty walk, and we're sitting here, we're discussing. So why? It doesn't make sense. Let's once rationally approach things, objectify the situation if we want to, if we're in good faith. Let's have good laws, we'll be able to apply them, we'll be better in the judiciary, we'll be better in the D.A.'s office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9904	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9905	I had to take this. I'll be right back. So if we have a situation that 50 institutions respect the Public Procurement Act, I would disagree in one section with the Professor, so what we're missing is that those people who don't do business in accordance with the law don't answer to anyone, that's where we agree. And I don't think the D.A.'s office and various police and security agencies are doing their part of the job. And as for the law, if the Public Procurement Act respects 50% of the institutions and 17% of the institutions, I don't think it's up to this law, but the people who need to enforce this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9906	Dear colleague Amir Fazlić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9907	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues, I am one of the members of the Commission who supported these amendments for amending and supplementing this law, with the aim of just hearing one quality debate on these amendments, and I see that I was right because today we could hear arguments about and arguments against the amendments and the addition of this law. However, I think that what certain colleagues have mentioned is that this law has been in force for six years and that absolutely why not try something new, why not try to fix the existing situation, because this assembly is a witness to certain measures taken by the Commission, and the Office of Audit, and Parliament, but we are not witnessing the quality implementation of these measures by the executive government. I have to say that I haven't thought about taking this much, but one of the motives is the discussion of a colleague of Slavko Jovičić, who painted it this way, perhaps a little sharply calling some expressions of individual officials, but that motive moved me to discuss it a little bit today. Look, we at the level of the BiH state, here comes Budget, so we're going to bring a little bit more data, we've got expenditure, they're somewhere around 13 billion, 13.5 billion, and we're discussing the revision of what the BiH state is spending, its 71 institutions, the Council of Ministers and everyone else. That's about 950 million somewhere, and when we look at it, it's about 7.5-7.3 funds, and I personally as an MP, I'm not unhappy with how MPs are discussing it. They show one responsibility, they want a change, they want a responsibility, they want the executive authority to better and better control the spending of these funds, and they want to spend more responsibly. But this will probably get me to ask in the next phase what it's doing in entities. They're probably there too... what they do in municipalities, what they do in cantons, because we see how little money is audited quality, and what about those 12 billion and something. In that sense, I am going back to the amendments that are today's topic, and I think we should give support to these amendments. If in a year or two it doesn't show and there are certain problems in this law, this is a matter that can be changed. And to my colleagues, colleagues, colleagues who are prone to this, not looking at which parties they are from, I think they have made one effort and one effort and colleagues from the SDA will support these amendments, as Mr. Salko Sokolović has already made. And what's the relationship of the executive government, here's the chairman of the Council of Ministers is there and one small part, I see the most people from the Office of Audit, probably when there's a Bill on Budget, we'll have all the ministers here, because one of the preconditions for the debate on the next point will be one of my questions to them.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9908	The finance minister is here. Never mind, that's it. Replica, dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go. 32
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9909	Well, I'm looking around here in this room, so I'm looking at everything where your thieves are. I don't see them on the left or on the right. On the contrary, when we call someone or when an audit report points to irregularities in the work of the agency, then the one from whose party it is, under the pretext, a thief, I don't claim it to be anyone, jumps in and defends them, and says it's an attack on a political basis. I don't even know who's been in power over the past few years anymore. And please, let's just say... the speech. You, Mr. Jovičić, if you know someone stole something, alienated, and you didn't report it, you're his accomplice. You're his accomplice, and you need to answer. And when I find out who you know he stole something I'll file a criminal report against you as his accomplice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9910	Replica, dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9911	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, through discussions, we are becoming increasingly involved in the situation that this Parliament, as a legislative body, will assume the authority of the prosecution and the judiciary. I don't think we should do that. For these reasons, we have changed here, I will remind my colleagues, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions, and we have said that if the competent court confirms the indictments against the executives for fraud for which the manager was... he will put his mandate at the disposal of etc. Are there any of these verdicts? And then in the conclusions, here, in the summary opinion, according to the audit reports, we asked the D.A. if they were taking them off the sites, looking at those reports, finding certain irregularities, and then in the prosecution process, the judiciary, we solved these problems. Let's not go in, here's the situation that we're dealing with these things. We have made a lot of conclusions to the Council of Ministers and, among other things, asked the Council of Ministers to run an analysis of the audit reports before the 2012 budget and provide us with state and analysis, so we didn't get a number of other things. We, as Parliament, need to insist on what we are in charge of the Council of Ministers, should be given an answer. We didn't have that. And here, again, to say what I said in my first release, because of this some so far weak work by the Council of Ministers and answering Parliament's demands, here's this legislative change maybe just a little imperative some things will work out differently, and then we'll be satisfied here too, and maybe we won't discuss it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9912	Thank you. Replication response, esteemed colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9913	It won't be a replica, but one explanation. Well, dear colleague Pandurević, perhaps I've said everything I've been indoctrinating with the texts I've read and you've written. I've never read a single text in my life that you've never written a thief from the BiH-level government, ever. And I'm going to bring you these 33 countless texts for the next session and here all of them, and I'm going to prove on record that I'm not an accomplice to anything. I'm just a participant in a constant fight against thieves and criminals and I do it as I know about myself, of course, aware that there are no effects. But at least to get out of me, I won't say, anger because I'm just temperamental, not nervous, but to ease my soul. When ten pensioners meet me and ask at the Palace where you've been, I say you've been to Parliament's session: have you spoken richly against those thieves? I did. Thank you, MP, you've satisfied us, let's have coffee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9914	Second replica, colleague of Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9915	Thank you, Mr. Živković. Mr. Jovičić, I'm asking that these texts where I've ever written for anyone that a thief is to bring them here and present them to everyone. First of all, I worked in a newspaper that goes out in Europe and America and works both in Australia and works under dark laws. And according to the dark laws, write for anyone that he's a thief and you don't have a judicial verdict, which means about if you were sued so you could get, so probably, a couple hundred thousand euros in damages. So, if I wrote for someone here by a colleague that he's a thief, give him that, and let him sue me. So I'd have to give him 100,000 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9916	Easy, easy. Slavko, you've got a sacred replica of her, you want to wear her out, don't you? Come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9917	Well, I'm very responsible, and I guess what I've done is I've been careful never to mention names. But when I say thieves, I know immediately who are recognized and I memorize them, and I always have them in mind, and that's why nobody can ever sue me for any damages. I never named anyone, but I'm asking them to name the thieves the D.A., the SIPA, who should be dealing with them, not me. I just insist that people in this country do their job. And if anyone convinces me that there are no thieves in this country and that this is a land of prosperity, I'm at the next session, or someone else, I'm resigning and I'm saying, people, I've spent my whole life in delusions and I've fought the thieves. This is a land of prosperity. And to you, dear colleague Pandurević, here's just one sentence. Of course, you never said by name, and you were careful, but you wrote the most texts: SNSD thieves. Now, which you thought, which are names, and I'll never repay you, and I'm giving you credit for what you're writing, in fact, what you wrote, but here you are in another function. So, I'm very careful too, I'm very responsible and I'll never turn my finger on anyone there. But I know as every man in this country knows that never a thief can count or write, and an even greater illusion is that a minimum percentage of 1-2% will be carried out by an institution on account, so I will always speak 34 against a mass thief. And in the one and only I already know them, who recognize themselves but, unfortunately, as a politician, I can't do anything to them.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9918	We're moving from thieves to amendments. Dear colleague Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9919	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests, I would first of all like to thank the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for its contribution, the efforts made by me as an authorised promoter and members of the SBB Club, thank you all for helping us show that the topic we have dealt with in these amendments and additions is really of great importance to the public in BiH, for the citizens of BiH. I also thank you for the reactions and support of the NGO sector, the numerous organisations involved in public spending, which appeared from all parts of BiH, thus irrelevant to entity activity and membership or possible sympathy or non-sympathy towards certain parties. I also want to, and I would like to stress this, to thank for the constructive effort that has been made to a group of employees of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office, which was unfortunately not led by the main auditor. I was given the assurance that they participated in the exchange of views and work to supplement the amendments and their acceptability under these amendments and the addition of the Law. I thank you, indeed, for having received with respect an authorised promoter and working for several hours with a desire to bring our views closer and for what is the subject of this law to be the goal of what we initially stated in the first reading here: strengthening the role of the Office for Auditing BiH institutions and strengthening the role of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly within this problem. So, ladies and gentlemen of the Audit Office, thank you for their constructiveness and their principled consistency after the chief auditor came to announce our multi-hour work and all the arrangements. I therefore point out once again that the Crucial Problem exists in the Audit Office and that we must resolve it if we want this important institution to work for the benefit of the citizens of BiH and in favour of the Parliamentary Assembly getting reports behind which it will be able to stand and which it will be able to support. I'm just going to say a few sentences about the discussions we heard here today. I thank all my colleagues once again and thank the members of the Commission for their work together so far. It was stated that there was pressure on the audit, further pressure on the audit. I don't see what the pressure on the revision is if we want to share responsibility with them and participate in this important process. Someone said, "No Niko's bothered us so far, we have that possibility in law." They didn't bother us, but we didn't do it. We could have done it by now, and now we're bound to do it, and I think it's a qualitative step. I wish Mr. Chief Auditor had had as much respect for us as authorized proposings and this Parliamentary Assembly and gave us as much importance as he gave to an independent Swedish consulting office, with all respects to the Office. We're talking about declarative statements here in this House. Declaratively, here we are now fully constructive. It's got to come from something. One small step must be taken. It will give us an opportunity to see where else we can improve, upgrade this process and become fully responsible for what BiH citizens expect us to do, and 35 is to learn about who and how they spend money on budgets and whether this spent money really has an effect and results that lead to better, easier and more prosperous life in BiH. Some of the termologies mentioned here were downloaded from the official documents of the Audit Office and the members of the Review Office expert group found nothing wrong with that terminology that is neither in this law nor in the amendments. I hope that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, that the distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs will support this proposal regardless of what comes from the newly arrived party to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, regardless of what comes from the ranks of the opposition and that it will indeed be treated as a constructive contribution to what we want and how we see the functioning of the BiH society. Once again, I thank and hope for further cooperation and the development of relations between us as parliamentarians, NGOs and, of course, official agencies and institutions in BiH that should be our first associates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9920	Now, let's see if you were happy before. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9921	I thank the very esteemed president. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the council, the esteemed guests, I'm just a little while ago, following this other material one, asking which part of the agenda we're at, because everything here was talked about except for the defense of the amendment that we're on today, right, when it comes to this item of the agenda. And I answered because I think we've gone a little outside the box, respecting and respecting every MP's right to defend his proposals with arguments in the best possible way. I think we've gone beyond that and we've entered a sphere of inaccuracy, especially inaccuracy to one, as many of us like to call it, a very respected, respectable, independent, good institution, whose reports we generally welcome, we encourage, etc. And we went, in the absence of likely arguments, more debate on the main auditor and the Audit Office than on the agenda point. I think that's incorrect. Incorrectly for reasons that neither the chief auditor nor anyone else we are discussing here, there is no possibility, respecting the representatives and their rights and the House of Representatives, to return the same measure. Probably, if we let him, or anyone, come back with the same measure, then we'd have a chance to listen to everything and everything. I think that's incorrect. I had to answer for it. It is not subject to this item on the agenda of the debate on either the main auditor, its deputies, or the Audit Office. The debate is on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of Institutions. And we welcomed, I welcomed the idea, the initiative, the efforts of a respected colleague, the legislator of this law, the effort here to look for some resolved to improve the situation in this area. You have to respect the fact that we MPs are not experts on every area and that we, who wants to be more informed, consult whoever they arrive with, in order to be more competent, so that they can make decisions more responsibly and judge certain issues. And don't mind, there was a grudge today who consulted with whom, who listened to whom, who didn't listen. When 36 of us make decisions, we make decisions, and as we prepare for decisions, it is the right of each of us individually and therefore we bear the responsibility in front of the public. And I pray once again, so let's not because we don't like someone's point of view, it means using it as an opportunity for an institution or an individual from an institution whose position we don't have to attack, or I don't know, to label it one way or another. We have the law and through all these discussions, through all the debates, through all the arguments, we have heard that we, but not the Audit Office, are not ready to seek responsibility, to endure responsibility. We've heard that we're making conclusions, we're making conclusions, and we're not insisting on their implementation. Well, it's not the audit office's fault that we don't insist on carrying out our own conclusions. Let's not change it, it's the easiest thing to do is transfer responsibility to someone else. But it is we who decide the appointments, the appointments, the resolutions of those who have budgetary resources. We have reached dozens of conclusions, and through the committee competent and through Parliament, not following their implementation is not the fault of the Audit Office. I don't want to, and I don't need to be the attorney of the Audit Office, but it bothers me that we're changing the thesis and that instead of discussing the agenda point, we're discussing something else to cloud, I don't know, real problems. So, here I would ask for one correctness towards those who are correct towards this institution, meaning correct, orderly reporting, coming to our committees neatly, accompanied by Parliament, neatly we welcome the results of these institutions, what we will do with those who will not come to our session, nor to the commission, and whose results we are very often dissatisfied with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9922	Thank you. Chief Audit Office auditor, Mr. Milenko Šego has his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9923	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I welcome you all together. Well, we, the ones on the left and right, are really a little disabled, if we have to listen to dozens of debates, even insults, and we can't react, but here's the situation. Of course, I have no intention of replicating any of those who have spoken, but it is my duty, and I am here on that basis, to state my position, the position of the profession and the position of the Office of Audit. Well, I guess I'm the one who's transferring the official position of the Audit Office. So the main auditor did not form a working group with the aim of transposing the position to the legislator. Well, I guess that working group, along with you, was supposed to crystallize attitudes, profile attitudes and opinions, try to formulate the best options of how this law should look, or amendments and additions to this law. In that sense, the task force was formed. And I formed that task force. We've had very good cooperation. I believe that your intention was indeed good, but the intentions go with us, when we leave office, from position, from jobs the intention goes away, and what is written in the laws remains. Therefore, for these reasons, we must be very careful what we write down in these laws. So, the existing Law on Audit, it's clear to everyone, and that's what you're all saying, and you who are proposing, proposing amendments and supplementing this law to offer a perfectly good, excellent framework for the work of the Parliamentary Assembly and the functioning of the executive government institutions. The problem is that this action was not at the expected level. I can't say that there was no action. There have been actions, there have been progress, and it can be said that in particular the last three or four years indeed 37 steps have been made in this Parliamentary Assembly, that certain measures and actions have been taken, that the Parliamentary Assembly has made its own procedures for the reception and acceptance of audit reports and that institutions have been heard, called to account. And it was very painful, I was there with a witness, so I watched it, I attended it. Therefore, the assessment and qualifications that nothing has been done and nothing is wrong. I have to tell you that. After all, about 60% of our recommendations are implemented. That's a significant piece of information. You will receive very soon reports of the audits carried out for 2011 and you will see that there is a trend and a further positive shift. So let's not just talk about no progress. When it comes to repairing the law, I guess the aim is to repair a law, especially a law that is a special law or a lex specialis law, to facilitate the activity of that service, and profession. In this law, those measures and actions that are repressive, which are not in fact the heritage of the EU and the developed world, are trying to bring into this law. And that, in my opinion, is a step back. So to enter into the Law of Audit, which is a law of profession, a special law, introduce repressive measures and bring ourselves practically into a path-position, as a legislative authority, how to implement these measures, what about us with systemic recommendations that may be 50% in our reports. If we made 400 recommendations for 2010, there are at least 150 systemic recommendations. Who will be called to account under the proposed law on amendments and additions to this law for non-implementation of such recommendations. Here, I'd like to hear that question. We have been writing for five years that it is necessary to regulate the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to regulate it by law on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Every year that recommendation is written. Who will be called to account if we adopt such amendments and supplement these laws? Here's what I'd like to hear from you. So it's a path- position that you'll find it difficult to get out of. Thus, the responsibility to some perhaps minor corrective actions will be taken into account. We in the existing legislation have all this regulated. The existing Audit Act offers such an option. Article 16 of that law offers such an option, a very modern option, a quality: that the Parliamentary Assembly can express responsibility by reducing the budget or any other corrective action. Isn't that enough? Isn't that enough for one who has power, legislative authority? I don't see how that needs to be further explained, spread, I don't get it. That's why I'm against change that way. Furthermore, we must bear in mind the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, its Article 90, which says that the external audit and that BiH will practically inherit this tradition, that it will assume those majority commitments from the EU, not some individual, truth, there are individual cases and perhaps in an environment where some repressive measures have been introduced in the Revision Act, but we must take what is positive from the EU. As regards the impact review, with the first part of the proposed... of the amended member, I could agree, however, the second part of the member who speaks of that the Audit Office will form a programme which will be an integral part of the budget of the Audit Office, so the subject of adoption or non-adoptment, in our opinion is in line with the standards and the Audit Act in terms of the collapse of its independence. The impact audits to be carried out by the Office must be part of its annual plan, which is regulated by Article 12 of the existing Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions. And I think that the Working Group, Mrs Dervoz, insisted that the development programme, not Article 5, should be linked in this regard. The Revision Act is a fundamental difference, and you did not say that, but you said something else, so, which means the revision plan, and the Audit Office provides the parliamentary commission with information, not as part of any other document, which also relates to the budget adopted by the 38 responsible committee, and thus loses the discretion of the Office to decide independently on the audits it will carry out, i.e. giving the commission the opportunity to directly influence the annual audit plan, which is contrary to the standards and the existing Audit Act. Therefore, the Audit Office has a strategic development plan and financial audits and impact audits, and the development programme mentioned as a step forward for these amendments and complements is part of practically this strategic development plan and it could then be the subject of adoption or non-adoptment on the commission, which is exactly what the discretionary law on independence and independence of the Audit Office is. Here, in that sense, I think that the intention was good, and on our part, I also expressed my doubts in the first reading that the proposed amendments and the additions of the Law would make us a better one. I don't think there's a solution to that, the solution is what most of you here have been saying: in the political will that what we do, and no one has doubted it, you've all been saying that the reports are quality, so here's the latest report 20 days ago on the return, the care of refugees and displaced persons, so I haven't noticed any special activities about it, somehow this debate ended quickly. So it's not that there are no reports. It's just that there's not enough of your energy and political will to run the process. That's the problem. I have to tell you that. I'm not going to talk about the Brcko District because the promoter himself said it was a political issue, so I don't know what the political question in the Audit Act is right now. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9924	Thank you. Dear fellow...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9925	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9926	You have the right to the line for three minutes, that's enough.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9927	I've had enough for half a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9928	Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9929	So, Mr. Šego, I apologize for taking part in these initiatives to make a difference in this House and I will never again until I ask you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9930	Let's take it in a row. Replica, dear colleague of Ismet Dervoz. Here you go. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9931	Thank you. I would just like to point out once again that the proposer's intention was to amend and supplement the Law on the revision of BiH institutions, not a discussion on the Office for the Audit of Institutions and, as we came to this field, is probably the cause of what we unfortunately had to talk about in this Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9932	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9933	Thank you. Namely, colleagues and fellow MPs, the law is too serious a matter, changes and additions too, to include both opposition and positional and personal and any other interest in it. We today do not have, apart from these three adopted amendments that were on the Commission, any other proposal to amend these amendments in a manner which has been spoken of by the Chief Auditor and which makes sense, nor does it have any other possibility for this Parliament to do so today, unless it has a good will both from the Proposors and from the Auditors' Office and from all of us here to give a certain deadline for these amendments, if they can, to amend. I only came out for that reason to warn you of business procedures where there's nothing more we can do unless there's no good will. If there's any good will, you can respect this suggestion, so when we vote on this to formulate one conclusion in this regard, if we don't vote on the law in a way that we can vote. Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Bill on Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions and International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012 (first reading) The Bureau submitted the draft law to the parliamentary procedure in 4.5.2012. The Commission responsible for Finance and Budget Opinion on the Principles of the Bill delivered 8.5.2012. The Constitutional Commission's opinion on the constitutional basis of the Bill's proposal was delivered on 8.5.2012. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. I have a request from the finance minister, Mr. Nikola Špirić, to explain the proposal on behalf of the promoter. Here you go. 40
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9935	Gentlemen of the chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, the Fiscal Council in its new session, held on 14.3.2012, unanimously adopted the Global Framework for fiscal balance and policies in BiH for 2012-2014. The adopted Global Framework document sets out, among other things, the framework of the BiH institutions' budget of 950m marks, by providing 750m marks from the Single Account of the Indirect Taxation Authority. In accordance with Article 6. The Fiscal Council Law Agreement on the adoption of the Deep Framework was signed by the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers and entity prime ministers. In accordance with the Law on Finance and the Law on the Fiscal Council, the framework of the BiH institutions' budget is set out in this..., it agreed with the signed agreement on the document, the Global Framework. I purposely note this because I have had the opportunity to hear different statements in the media that there is no Global Framework, that this document is not signed, etc. Just so you know we've been working, that's on the basis of official documents. Since the Budget Law of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012 is adopted on the basis of those laws and the Global Framework, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury have instructed budget users to submit budget applications. Afterwards, the Council of Ministers held a debate on the proposal for measures to achieve the savings needed to bring the budget into line with the 950m-mark framework. The Council of Ministers unanimously supported measures to achieve the savings proposed by the finance and vault ministry. At the same time, the Council of Ministers tasked the Ministry of Defence to prepare, in co-operation with entity competent institutions and pension funds, amendments to the Armed Forces Service Act in order to overcome the burning problem in connection with the reconciliation of obligations towards soldiers who had expired the contract in the Armed Forces under that law. These changes were made, you know, in September 2010. Unfortunately, we didn't get that bill. It was made up of the Ministry of Finance and today it was the subject of a debate at a meeting of the Council of Ministers, which I came from, and we will speak on Monday or Tuesday about the amendment and addition of this law which therefore refers to this category of temporarily retired soldiers from the Armed Forces of BiH, but the budget provides for a paragraph of 19.9m KM for those obligations that the law produced from 1 January 2010 to 31 March this year. There were also different figures in the public, 29.9 million were mentioned, which means it was auctioned unfortunately with that category of people. We're going to see what we're going to do with this bill, but I have to say that the amendment and addition of this bill is a package for this budget and we're going to do everything we can to get it at the stage of adoption of this budget so that we don't have different kinds of dissatisfied people on the streets again. The Council of Ministers, which includes saving in line with this budget planning, means at the same time setting out amendments and supplementing certain laws. In that sense, we have also proposed the adoption of amendments to the Constitution of Article IX. Position 2 and suggested that the House of People make and therefore end the second vote concerning that member. And I must say, the Council of Ministers has reached that conclusion that suggests it. That was repeated by the Presidency in its conclusion. Then the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions with the aim of creating the possibility that the Council of Ministers will, therefore, establish a base for salaries in order to preserve macroeconomic stability, so as not to violate the Constitution and the law and therefore not produce certain lawsuits and tighten interest. Then the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to Law 41 in the service of the Armed Forces of BiH, which is in the final phase, which I was talking about. But also by considering the budget, we have brought certain sublaws to which these legal projects are based. First Proposal for a Decision on the adoption of policy and salary and compensation in BiH institutions for 2011 to 2014 So it's a decision that's been adopted and based on that decision we've created amendments and additions to the Law of Salaries. Next, the proposal for a decision to amend the Decision on the level of the official travel logs employed by BiH institutions. We made one decision so that we evened out the travel logs inside BiH at 25 KM level. You know that at the state level it was 50 marks, on the level of the entity there were 20 or 25 marks. We've cut our travel logs by 10%. Then the proposal for a decision on the height of the annual vacation in BiH institutions for the year 2012 by 50%, with the Council of Ministers adopting this budget to make a special decision which will have a differentiated access to the payment of the regress, which means that those with higher salaries will have less regress, those with lower salaries will have a higher regress. Then the proposal for a decision on the level of cash compensation to employees of BiH institutions for food during work, so we reduced the warm meal from 8 marks to 6 marks. And I have to say that this is the category that was transferred from the system behind us, in fact, nowhere in the world exists that the warm meal has those who work in government institutions, who are on the budget, but those who work in production halls. And if, by chance, we were to lift a warm meal, then it would be a save at the level of BiH 56 million just on that basis. But here, this time we only went with a minimum reduction of 2 KM, and the prices in our restaurants are such that all employees can have one meal at 6 KM. Then the proposal for a decision on the basis of the salary base for BiH institutions, hence 4.5% linearly for all categories, except for those who receive a salary of up to 500 marks. And the proposal for a decision on the way and process of exercising the rights of employees in BiH institutions for accommodation costs, separate life fees and temporary allocation fees, so so far, the compensation for a separate life has been 400 marks, which has been reduced by 25%. So when we add it all together on an annual basis, it's about 51.45 million savings. And if we adopt, and hopefully we'll adopt this budget this month, this year's savings would be $37.6 million. I'm not talking here on purpose about rent costs because we've made a decision to run an analysis of the rent prices and to achieve savings on that basis up to 30%. We're doing that analysis and certain savings have already been made. But as you can see, there are also capital investments in this budget related to the construction of institution accommodation facilities, which means that we can expect the effects only in years ahead of us. When it comes to the revenue side for the financing of BiH institutions, revenues for the financing of institutions have been defined at 950 million, with infringements of indirect taxes of 750 million. You know that in 2011, we ended up with an indirect tax reduction of 685 million, which means 8.85% growth, and 12992,000 concerns direct income from BiH institutions. These are different types of taxis, then income from the Central Bank and we have transferred revenue from 31,797,000 related to capital investments from 2011, so that these direct revenues are revenues from taxis and fees, revenues from special fees and fees, revenues from their own activity, revenues from the Central Bank's profits and extraordinary revenues or grants. And it's all 12990.000 marks. Then we also have income for foreign debt financing. The external debt for 2012 is 444.928.000 marks. For the Federation 279,588,000 marks, for RS 160,777,000, for Brcko District 151,000 marks and for the state level of government 4.412.000 marks. And when we add all of this up, so we get a budget framework of 1,394,928,000 KM. What is interesting to me is the cost side of the budget that we have balanced with the revenue side, so the current expenditure for budget users is 916,439,000 KM, and what is 42 is important to know that current expenditures of 813,267.000 marks relate to gross payments and fees of 524,917, employees' fees 110,535,000 and other material costs of 177,815 marks. So, for salaries and fees of 950,000 is 813,267,000 KM, and that is what we warned that public spending should be reduced. Capital expenditures amount to 69,710,000 liquid grenades 30,680, capital grants 2 million and foreign interest expenditure 697, these are tight interest rates for service ino debt, because we had to pay them because we were the only country that did not service foreign debt at a time of liquidity. And there are direct transfers, reserved funds for the construction of border crossings and the propo entry of Croatia into the EU and 20 million related to the construction... of the BiH institution. What I can say is that the revenue and expenditure sides are balanced and that this draft budget provides, among other things, the functioning of BiH institutions without jeopardising and one vital function, the financing of primary actions for the BiH census according to law, means of maintaining local elections, the construction of border crossings with Croatia so that we do not pay the unnecessary price and the pro-entry of Croatia into the EU, the provision of funds for the purchase of BiH institutions and other obligations that stand before BiH. After adopting this budget in the Council of Ministers, the budget was adopted by the Presidency and you received conclusions as we did in the Council of Ministers. The practice so far has been for the Bureau to deliver its conclusions to the Ministry of Finance to shape and forward them into parliamentary procedure, and we have now obtained them in direct form. But since I see that it is not an emergency procedure, but it is going into a shortened procedure of this budget, we are not running away from designing as the Ministry of this Presidency's conclusions and helping in the amendment phase of the competent commission to make good amendments, especially as we think this IX article is. Article 2 The constitution has no need to stand directly here, the Council of Ministers needs to conclude, and this conclusion should be forwarded to the House of Peoples to complete the procedure, so amendments to the Constitution in that context. Then, the conclusion that applies and where it is said there will be no new employment in this year. But I must say that we already have temporary funding for almost five months, that it is practically impossible, since we have new institutions such as the Anti-Corruption Agency, such as the new bodies in line with the European Commission's demands, let's say, state aid co-ordination bodies and other... bodies, so that we have left that one item in the budget reserve where the number of employees would be determined in accordance with the Council of Ministers' College's decision, so that the final decision would be made by the Council of Ministers or the Council of Ministers. Here also in one conclusion, I'm only talking about what has become an integral part of this budget, and I'm not going to comment on these other conclusions of the Presidency that you're going to be conducting, but here we're talking about 2.5 million KMs that are the excess of the Central Bank's income. So they're 27,5 million, and we're working on the report that we got from the Central Bank, and this is the report that came into the Bureau. And we think that these funds should also be allocated to capital facilities. And today we have made a decision to amend the Interim Financing Decision to allow for a military exercise held next month in Mostar in the amount of 1,200,000 marks related to capital investments, road construction, local roads in Herzegovina to monitor the conduct of the military exercise. And in that sense, we are prepared to help implement... the funds even though the Presidency has not directly located them in this budget. I know, of course, and I have to say that we had a good debate within the Council of Ministers, not particularly satisfied with this budget and when there are funds and when there are no funds, but mostly I think we have come to an optimal solution that does not endanger any 43 institutions and I think these are minimum adjustments and I would like them to be the last adjustments. It is possible, of course, to achieve savings at the state level and beyond. I believe that other levels of government will have to fuck their own, especially the spending side, but I don't think only cutting expenditure can help BiH and its lower levels of government, that there must be a combination of savings and investments, that we must make efforts to make an equally attractive job in the real sector such as the job in the institutions of the authorities that are on the budget. It's not simple and this is just the beginning of entering reforms. I think there have also been different comparisons of state and entity budgets in their growth, whether... the state is in relation to entities or not. I'm talking about state-level growth of almost 9% of indirect taxes. And of course, entities have their direct incomes as well as the state has its direct revenues and we cannot continue to enter the level of direct incomes of either, nor others, nor thirds, but these direct revenues of entities are related to printing vault records with extremely unfavourable interest rates which generates huge deficits in entity budgets. When it comes to state and entity finance, I would never change from this point of view for the quality of resources that are at the state level compared to... sources that are at the entity level. We, and I will say that in the end, decided on the Fiscal Council to continue the talks with the International Monetary Fund that we have a review of the arrangement that we have concluded. We will see how this debate will take place, from the point of view of the state, that arrangement means nothing to her, but I think that the entity levels of the government have a direct need to continue the arrangement, but above all, I expect that the demand of international financial institutions will be to implement structural reforms and reforms of the social sector and that everything that has been introduced into the benefits of the various pre-election periods, regardless of what level of government, will have to go outside. It won't be an easy reform. They won't mean smiles and applause to ministers, and I don't expect that. I think the reforms ahead of us are painful reforms but they are required to take first steps. We were responsible, at the state level did it. There were also objections to why the entities don't do it, whether it's just us. Everyone will be forced to take those steps and I think what we did shows that the Council of Ministers was at the height of the task and responsibility. And what I would also like to say, I think it would be good to create a political mood but to get support from Parliament that this Council of Ministers in this mandate, so in this term of office each year reduces the level of state administration by at least 5%, these would be real reforms. Otherwise, all of these other things are minimal corrections. The second thing, where there are still large savings, in my opinion, I speak openly, is not an integral part of this budget. Remember when the Law on the Armed Forces of BiH was passed, at the time, I was a winemaker of the debate, in this parliament there was a question, there was a minority of war or peace: how many soldiers there would be, how many soldiers would have in the Armed Forces, as if they would be at war. Today is not just the number of NATO soldiers, but the equipment and training of soldiers. I think that's where we're supposed to open up the debate, and that's where the big savings are hiding. The second thing, the DKP network: it cannot be a Bosnian-Herzegovic economy, it is simply not realistic to finance a number of DKP destinations such as Croatia or another stronger economy or a larger economy than BiH. And these are things for a serious political debate where the country's sovereignty is not threatened, but that reforms and stronger countries are simply being implemented. I think the logic that the more money at the state level is more state-wide is I think it's one big delusion, that citizens in this country want an efficient and cheap state service whether they live in Stoc, Banja Luka or Sarajevo, or anywhere. Here, I've had so much on this budget. I'd be happy to listen to all the remarks and what the Ministry of Finance's task is going to do. Thank you very much. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9936	Thank you. Comrades and fellow MPs, namely here's the College decided to take a break by 3:00 for lunch. At 15 o'clock in accordance with Article 27(f), I will limit the debate to 5 minutes so that today's agenda can be realised. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] Here, the consultations are still, as far as I can tell, ongoing. I hope everyone who signed up for the debate is in the O.R. We go in a row, no one loses the place, but here I go. Darko Babalj, as far as I can tell, is not here, but a respected colleague, Šemsudin Mehmedović, is. You have your word, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9938	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members of the Council of Ministers, here, listening to Mr. Špirić's opening remarks, Finance Minister, simply came to me to support this budget, because he explained it so nicely, something similar to his exposé when appointed to the Council of Ministers. However, as the mandate shifted, it seemed more and more that the story had nothing to do with it. In fact, today we have the BiH budget for 2012 and the basis for budgeting is certainly the fiscal framework that the Fiscal Council adopted on 14 March this year and unanimously adopted. However, here as a representative, I have not had the opportunity to see this document adopted by the Fiscal Council, and it would be very useful and nice for us as MPs, who should vote for or against this budget, to at least see that document adopted by the Fiscal Council and to know what fate BiH is waiting for over the next three years. Because you know, we've heard from the media that the financial situation is actually set up when it comes to... the state level, and the fiscal framework is actually determined for all levels. And if the crisis hits the whole of BiH, and it hits, then we should evenly deploy the burden of this crisis to both the state and the entities, and the cantons, and the municipalities, of course. However, when you look at the figures you see that in fact only 7% of all budgets is this BiH budget and we are talking about some savings, I don't know, of 37.6 million, which is 3% of the budget, the proposed budget of BiH. And in fact, it's a minor figure compared to 13.5 billion... how much public money goes to BiH. So here is a legitimate question, and we at the SDA Club are expressing our suspicion that there is some political agreement that the public is not familiar with at all. Political agreement in terms of, here, we will reduce the budget at BiH level, and we will divide all the surplus income from the Single Account towards entities. Why not under the Public Revenue Act and other levels of government, not just entities? Because, in fact, two political leaders rule sovereignly in entities, and that is what justifiably leaves the suspicion that a political agreement hidden from the public is actually due to it. If we're talking about savings, then it's not okay to just talk about that spending side, we need to talk about the revenue side of the budget. And it is obvious that the Council of Ministers, at least so far, has not shown a good will to provide conditions to attract BiH firms so that they can have an equal match on the market with other companies that, for example, import their goods into BiH. So I don't think 45 is savings if we say that these three agencies, which can't stand on their feet, I'm talking about the Veterinary Authority, the Food Safety Agency, the Plants Agency, which should issue a certificate for animal and plant origin from BiH, will not stand on their feet even though they have equipment, and personnel, and people, and everything else that is necessary. Why? Because in the Council of Ministers, there is no political will for this laboratory that has the equipment to be renamed or included in any organisational form, in any of these three institutions, so it doesn't matter where its headquarters will be, let it be from Bijeljina to Bihać and to Mostar, anywhere. But obviously we did not create conditions to increase the amount on the revenue side of the budget because we cannot export our goods outside BiH, or we will not be able to especially when the Republic of Croatia joins the EU.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9939	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9940	Here, I will end quickly, so I believe that, however, in the Council of Ministers, the number of advisers is increasing, the number of secretaries is increasing, all ministers are bringing their secretaries, drivers, advisors, etc., it is obvious that it is only one hollow story and I am sorry to say on behalf of the SDA Club that, for these few reasons, we are not ready to support this budget of BiH institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9941	Thank you. Dear colleague Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9942	Here, first of all to thank...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9943	Before, you can make a deal at the club, there's a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9944	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would refer to Mr. Mehmedović's comments on some secret arrangements. Mr. Mehmedović, please, don't bring your internal problems into this House. These are no secret deals, it was a public meeting of six leaders in Banja Luka where a 950m budget framework was agreed. The second thing, when you talk about secretaries and everything else, I agree that the administration is too big. The administration of that former SFRY had 22,000 employees at that federal level, but that administration is your party's product, because you're the one who's been in continuum since '92. We didn't bring them, you piled them up, and you keep hoarding them up. Thank you. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9945	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9946	I'd ask my colleague to listen carefully to what I'm saying. Therefore, I said that there is clearly reasonable doubt that there is a secret agreement between the two political leaders who want to fill in the entity's budgets for the BiH state account. Therefore, it is no internal problem. Maybe it's a problem inside a party platform group, but it's a special story. On the other hand, the administrations, and, here we bring, or we bring that administration,...we fill in certain institutions, so we humanely train and fill in institutions, and that's not an increase in the administration of the unnecessary. Now here I was talking about which, some parts, or some institutions where we need the administration. But let us have a situation to finance entities where... parallel institutions are made, for example, for the BiH State's account. The agency for higher education also exists at BiH level, exists in entities, i.e. in one entity. For what? There are all kinds of diplomatic and consular representations at both state and entity level. Is that what you need? So we're knowingly making, not to say, a disabled from the BiH state for the entity's account. Well, that's not gonna work. So don't expect us to at least support... such a single budget proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9947	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9948	When it comes to the leader's agreement, the shortest thing would be to replicate the words: in paranoia everything fits. So, the deal, as counterpart Mehmedović sees it, does not exist. But there is something else, there is an agreement between the six party leaders that the president of his party took part in, that the BiH state should finally win the budget. There is also an agreement on a budgetary framework that Mr Mehmedović also claims were not consulted, which is also incorrect, here is all, and that it was not the subject of six party leaders' talks, and it is true, and it can verify that the federal government unanimously supported Prime Minister Nikšić and Finance Minister Krajina before a meeting of the Fiscal Council to move in financial frameworks exactly as the budgetary framework was adopted. Therefore, I understand the need to find a reason or more of them for their political position that someone is not ready to adopt the budget and through this budget there are a lot of reasons, because it is not the perfect document. So, a lot of reasons anyone who's looking for reasons why he's not for the budget can find them in the document itself. But I don't think we should look for them where they don't exist. So it's true that there are two uncut leaders, that's true, it's no secret, but it's not true that there's a deal special... that's at the expense of someone else. There is a joint agreement to adopt the budget and finally move away from the temporary funding, there is an agreement to hold elections in this 47-nation country, and they cannot be held without the adopted budget, there is an agreement to go into construction of border crossings, which cannot be built without budgets, there is an agreement to meet our obligation to digitise, it is a European obligation which can also not be done without the budget. There is a commitment, there is an agreement to stop the drop in BiH's credit rating, which is also related to the adoption of the budget and a number of other things not to count and not to waste time. So, but a deal of some kind that the state is getting weak, that's except it's a little offensive, but here's to ignore it, which is offensive, it's really not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9949	Thank you. I was just about to say you're not getting up, because there's probably gonna be more replicas. Dear colleague Senad Šepić, replica. Right? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9950	Here I'm really going to be brief so maybe we don't start this agenda with some story that none of us here will actually know what we're talking about. I suggest the following, so this replica can go to anyone here today, I suggest that the chairman or finance minister deliver this fiscal framework to us, so that's something that should be the basis of this discussion today. And on the other hand, there is no agreement between six political leaders, at least we don't know about it, in which six political leaders agreed that the framework, or the upper limit for this budget in 2012, would be what we have today. There is a framework agreement and a need to get a budget and we, of course, don't talk or think at all about not having a budget, but what kind of budget it should look like I want to clear it right at the beginning here – there is no agreement between the six political leaders that they agreed on that amount and this level of budget will be at this level that we are offered today. So, in order not to further enter into some kind of debate of this kind, I suggest we get this fiscal framework, and I suggest that if there is something that my colleague Saša Magazinović mentioned, some kind of agreement made by six political leaders, or Mrs Aleksandra Pandurević, to deliver it to us. We responsibly claim that there is no such thing and that such agreement does not exist by six political leaders.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9951	Thank you. Comrade Fazliću, are you looking for a break so you can get this fiscal framework, as we've been getting it every time, or should we keep working so they can deliver it to you? _________(?) 48 [[no microphone turned on]] So, you're asking to be delivered, and we can work, right? Okay. Dear colleague Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9953	I've been confused three times already, sitting down. First, I'd like to thank Mr. Minister for the exhaustive budgeting. Of course, what I'm about to say is if there's no deal, we have something that's ahead of us, and we in the SDS agree with this 950 million framework, and as such, we're going to support it in our first reading. As for some misunderstandings, I think we're all talking to our leaders, so we're lucky, so our leader is with us, so there's nothing controversial about us. As far as phase two is concerned, and this is an amendment phase, we as MPs have all the right to act, I guess I don't need to explain it to anyone, and within that framework we can put comments on. Whether they will pass, whether they will not, so it is again in Parliament. As far as the SDS is concerned, and it's very interesting, here to say today is a second reading, let's go a little bit in advance. In the second round, our relationship, i.e. our votes, will receive this budget if the conclusions that this Parliament has made are respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9954	Thank you. Dear colleague Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9955	Well, Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, my discussion will not differ much from the discussion of colleagues from the SDA who have already had the opportunity to discuss the 2012 budget, with us having a little disagreement at the SDA Club, but these differences relate to the part: I was an advocate to get the fiscal framework first and then to discuss the budget, but here's a part of my colleagues think we can get into the session, because we have this second phase too, so I'm going to give up on this original intention. But it was really necessary to have this fiscal framework and see if it was actually passed legally and what it was, whether the entity's budgets were also drawn. So I will repeat one part of the discussion relating to these expenditures at BiH level, and this is also the one I spoke about the Revision Act, which is about 13.5 billion, and that we have the BiH state budget, in fact its institutions without service of the external debt of 950 million. That's 7.3% of the income. And on this 7.3% of income, we're making savings out of about 50 million cca. And then I come back, because there's an item here, and I didn't talk about this pay law, and we have a pay and a fee item, and I refer to a letter from the Union that we got about a pay cut of 4.5%. I think there's room at all levels to make savings and make them much bigger. This is a state and these are state institutions and it is Parliament and everything, but we can also act on reducing total expenditure at all levels. And that the thesis that the SDA said, I remain with it, that, with this global fiscal framework and this kind of budget, the weak state of BiH and its institutions, can also support the fact that the RS budget from the fixed year 2008 to 2012, has grown somewhere by 325 million and the Federation by 166 million. And just one piece of information, I know there's going to be 49 replicas here, and I want to not challenge them, because I want to get to the right data, that the wages from that moment on have increased by 14%, and in the Federation are 21% or vice versa, maybe I didn't get the right information, but I'm very interested in those two data. I have to say that the finance minister here has taxed us and I have here two lists of objections, meaning expenditures, gross payments, how much, that are higher by 1%, so that at the Directorate for indirect taxation is reduced budget, so to the border police, so here's something positive for the Parliamentary Assembly, etc. ...so I don't make the same script and read here for four minutes, I have to say I can't get to know the Minister of Finance and the former chairman of the Council of Ministers. I can see that there are some changes, whether it's because of a change in function, but there are deviations in some of his discussions at the time when he was chairman of the Council of Ministers, I understand then another was a decision, another function and everything else, but really when his speech is analysed can be found, analyticalally we'll prove it, there can be a lot of deviations. This sentence... that we should cut 5% every year by an administrative apparatus is a good sentence. That's a good line, but I've asked the Council of Ministers, while the chairman was one question about standardising the number of employees. So how we came to be so much in certain institutions that we're not talking about other levels of government, municipalities, cantons, entities and everything else. So the easiest way to get rid of a steam is to do that and we think that's it. In that account, in a few years, we won't even have state institutions, if it's really 5%.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9956	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9957	Here, here, I'll just say it, because we've really limited time to the most important point, but here's to say that here in revenue, in any case, we're going to be investing amendments as Party of Democratic Action. We are now against a draft like this, and I believe that the Council of Ministers still has a wise head, that part of the SDA amendment will be adopted and that there will be conditions for the SDA to vote in favour of this budget, especially if we increase revenues from the Single Account of the Taxation Authority by about fifty million from the Single Account. And we're going to do that analyticalally and we're going to back up the data, and if we increase our income there, and since time is limited, I'm likely to continue the discussion through the replica. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9958	Thank you. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9959	Dear Mr. Chairman, given... that the budget, otherwise, and also this, is also full of rational beings of irrational contradictions, different conflicts, desires and realities, etc., I have no doubt that it will be illuminated from different aspects. I will, however, remain for just one moment, and my distinguished colleagues Niko Lozančić and Dragan Vrankić from the club will talk about it more widely. 50 This moment that I want to look back is not irrelevant, it is in fact a principle of principle and it concerns the principle of equal rights, or discrimination as an aging of that first principle. It is said about savings and of course that everyone who is aware of the reality, the real environment in which we live, are also aware that these savings must be, and that, I would add, at all levels, of course, and then at the level of the BiH state and the budget that we need to adopt and which we are now discussing in the first reading. However, these savings should be in principle savings on everyone, equally and without distinction, and then that's fine. But if those savings aren't saving on everyone but on some people, so it's not equal and different, then it's not okay. I mean here, specifically, to see a reduction in the compensation for a separate life, as the esteemed finance minister said by 25%, because it was proposed to cut this fee unfounded. I, however hard I tried to find the basis for this reduction in the seven items mentioned as the basis for the draft of this budget, did not find them. I did not find any item to cover and which is the basis for this save. That's one thing. And the other thing is, of course, the BiH institutions where civil servants and deputies work, because the institutions of the BiH state are equally the institutions of all BiH citizens, and they are not primarily or primarily the institutions of the citizens of the City of Sarajevo, and then a little less of the City of Banja Luka and then a little less of the City of Mostar. And in that sense, therefore, this compensation for a separate life is a measure that should prevent discrimination by place of residence. I would ask the promoter to take this into account the draft budget, i.e. the second reading, so that, when we talk about savings, we can save both paper and ink that we don't have to write amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9960	Thank you. Fellow Members and colleagues, the budget is currently the property of this Parliamentary Assembly and anything that can be done can be done in our commissions, where amendments are proposed. The proposer of this budget is not the Council of Ministers, but the Presidency, and keep that in mind when sending messages. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9961	I'll do it very briefly, and it's about principles, because it's about principles. Of course, before I do, I will express my satisfaction and joy that I see in the Eastern tribune a complete team concerning the creation of this budget, of course, with the remaining members of the Presidency who are the proposings of this budget, and we will one day experience it. So, as far as we're concerned, me at this point, we fully understand the importance of budgeting, or the adverse consequences of budgeting, and at that time I will not lose. I'll talk about principles. Of course, we don't support this budget when a colleague is present, because it's not our job, first of all, it's the job of this government, but, not to be what I don't want, I'm going to say a few reasons regarding principles. So, every budget, among other things, must be made in good time, this one is not made in good time, with all the consequences it has produced, including strikes, including stalemate, uncertainty, people's dissatisfaction, credit rating, etc., etc., that I don't count. The alignment of this budget with economic policies, or all of BiH's budgets with economic policies? I think it's a mental noun and we can only dream about it, so we don't know what the left is doing, or the right is not knowing what the left is doing, I don't think and I don't believe that entities and 51 entity budgets, the state budget, cantons, etc. trying to harmonize and towards some economic policies that must be maintained in the conditions in which we are. So, that condition absolutely doesn't exist. Each budget should have clearly defined objectives through express policies. What I could understand so far and verbally and publicly said is that our goals are both positions and opposition to European integration, NATO, reforms, the fight against crime, corruption, employment, development, etc. The structure of this budget does not promise, or is not in that direction. Here, let me mention, let's say we have one depressing approach, one reduction in the defence sector, in the field of human rights, justice, etc., so these are all instruments that should implement policies and bring us closer to these objectives that I talked about above all. Of course, I am not running away, and I am absolutely in order to do a serious analysis of the competences of the capacities and quality of these institutions, their work, etc., not through those formal record reports, but a serious analysis. And a few comments on the claims, so as far as I could understand what the Council of Ministers had come out publicly, that the basic principle was the level of funds spent in 2011. Of course, the document of this budget shows the table on the 2011 budget. We budget 2011, if we're talking about the law and the Constitution, we don't. But here, so that principle was not respected, it wasn't at the level of the funds spent, but as anyone managed, it seems, so we have the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers going up 40%, the ombudsmen going down, etc. So, apparently, that principle is not fully and consistently implemented. When it comes to incomes,...it is inadmissible that 2.5 million will not be settled in time and left here in Parliament. They were reached in late April, or half of April, and it could be intervened that this 2.5 million were installed through the Presidency and that we would get a round budget. Furthermore, the revenue-side budget still draws a figure of around 7 million and something, obtained from land for the US Embassy, these are not the funds of the BiH budget, this should have been transferred, and you cannot include them in the budget, and we included them. Also, surplus funds, from last year 32 million were transferred as every year, but this is saying that we didn't get an increase compared to spent 2011. Let's not kid ourselves. And of course, I can see that there have been no reflections on other possible sources of income, such as revenues from unspective military assets, etc., which could have been done, or thoughts about potentially state-owned securities. I hope this new Council of Ministers will discuss it as well. And finally, since my party was also part of some agreements and fours and sixes etc., I would like to point out that it is also very important for us to go in the direction of not accepting this budget: financing choices that retain the model of the Srebrenica elections that retains the state of genocide, etc., that I do not take up your time. So that's one of our reasons. And here we are finally producing: some are asking us to adopt this budget, others are asking us not to adopt, etc. It's proof of great politics in all of this. And finally, the public debate past this hall was held recently, a month by the media, statements, etc., so we're practically pepper by the sawmill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9962	The following came to the discussion from the first deputy chairman, distinguished counterpart Božo Ljubić. Here you go. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9963	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected colleagues from the College, members of the Council of Ministers headed by the chairman, after a year and a half as this country died on temporary funding, the draft budget... prepared by the Council of Ministers, this current one, and which has been delivered here today to welcome us. In other words, I agree completely with those who are on the stand and who have joined the budget in one restrictive way and that the state in this time recession and the need to save at all levels, too, must give it an example and therefore have an understanding of the cutting and reduction in many paragraphs. However, I also think that an additional one could be invested, to put it this way, creative effort, so perhaps some misunderstandings, which could be heard here and here or will be heard in the adoption phase of this budget, could be avoided. In fact, the Minister of Finance presented this budget and presented certain aggregate figures of this budget and we had the opportunity to find them under the heading 'Complete balance of expenditure by economic categories'. I'm going to focus here to show by example that even more, to put it that way, could get deeper into some fairer reduction of certain items, redistribution, I'm going to focus on point 8. Collection expenses, and that's rent-a-carrying expenses. It amounts to 29 million and some more converting marks and a proposal for a reduction that the Council of Ministers has installed in this budget is somewhere 619 thousand. We all know, so in this recession that BiH has been facing lately, I would say, for five or six years, how much the market price of these leases has dropped. I can say it this way, so I'm sure it's 30 percent. Given that these contracts are without criteria and where leases per square are reportedly going from 5 to 40 KM, here I am here, saying that these costs can be cut immediately by a half contract. So cut to 20 to 15 million marks. And space is being opened to redistribute those funds where they are needed, the refugee issue, and of course the issue of some institutions that need to be trained. Someone here was talking about the Veterinary Office, we can also talk about institutions that care about borders, etc., etc. The finance minister also spoke here of an unacceptable cost ratio for salaries and material costs for institutions, which of 950 million or something amounting to around 813 million, capital expenditures of 70 million, capital grants of 33 million. We can also additionally cut these costs, these 813 million in salaries, travel expenses, daily living, etc., but we cannot significantly increase capital expenditures, investments etc., it is possible only by increasing revenues. And that's the direction we need to pursue in the future. Of course, this is not the moment when we need to stop this budget. So, of course, I want to make my point and I dare say that this is the position and party of the Croatian bloc that is participating in this Council of Ministers, that we will try to amend, if possible and as far as possible, this budget, without seeking to increase its overall framework. But that in any case we will support this budget because it is important for the functioning of the institutions, it is important for BiH's path towards Euro-Atlantic integration. However, the basic issue that we cannot resolve in this year, which is being raised in this way, someone here said that BiH's budgetary potential in the overall budgetary and fiscal potential of the state is participating with about 7.3 and 8%, respectively, does not matter, Mr. Finance said 9%. We will face at one point the question of whether a state that has 8% of the total income can be a partner to anyone in the world. So I absolutely want to say here that I think this budget should be supported. I think we should be open to this budget, and we and the proposings of this budget for the changes and repairs that would go towards obtaining the largest possible support in this House, and here I refer to Mr Fazlić's debate, support and those who at 53, or have not expressed their readiness to support this budget. But ultimately, I think the budget should be adopted and we will support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9964	Thank you. Dear colleague Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9965	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'll try very briefly to make my observations about this draft budget that we have today ahead of us. First of all, I want to say that it is a positive and important thing that we are in a situation today, so – when we adopted the budget, I think, in a regular procedure, normal for 2010 – after a long period of time, we have come into a situation that in some regular procedure we are considering the Budget Law for 2012, because what happened with the 2011 Budget Proposal at least I think it was not a completely regular procedure and we know... that there were problems about it. No matter what anyone thinks today and said that this budget proposal is flawed, that there are certain shortcomings to be corrected, I will later say what I think should be fixed in this budget proposal, I think we should all agree in general that the very fact that we will be able to reach the 2012 budget in fulfillment of the assumption that some of the currents that matter for BiH could go in a normal way and in a normal way, and that we are not talking about our commitments and Eurotlant integrations, which are also tied to this budget, and they are very important, and that is why I think that we should all work together, we are in front of the amendment phase, that we all work together to come to some final proposal that will receive the broadest support. It is good that this draft budget had some basis that preceded the proposal itself, i.e. the working version that came out of the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Ministers according to the Presidency. Here I think specifically of this fiscal framework, which was established before the budget was drawn up itself, that it is 950 million, means some framework within which everything that is imagined and planned in this budget proposal for this fiscal framework should be moved. Of course, the fiscal framework is accompanied by principles which are also established, and which are certainly established by the Fiscal Council and six leaders of political parties, who have certainly made a great effort to reach this proposal, because whatever the proposal is, means no matter how much anyone has made comments and made proposals for corrections, it is better to adopt this 950 million budget, than to be on temporary financing or to have all those problems and what we had about the 2011 budget. In addition to the fiscal framework and the principles that are important for this draft budget, I also believe that a balanced relationship within the items planned under this budget is important, and I will now say something about it. The key word relating to this 2012 budget is savings, savings and only savings. This savings, we heard from the finance minister in what way it was imagined, was said to be able to achieve about 37.6 million savings on various items, regardless of what he explained and what he said, therefore there was also savings based on wage cuts, income cuts..., everything remains and what was in some previous period. When I say a balanced relationship, then in this material that we have received, it is said that this savings goes first of all from the 54 Parliamentary Assembly, so this home, and it refers first and foremost to the pay item provided here to be reduced. And it's perfectly normal, it's not just here for this Council, it's not what we predicted this Council of Ministers and we in Bosnia, it's what countries in the environment do, because it's actually such an economic situation that it has to be done. But when you move on, here I'm looking at page 5 here in this draft budget, so when you go to further items and if you go deep into it carefully, then you can see that this balanced savings ratio isn't exactly applied to all the items and that there are certain deviations. There are items where it is very, very savings, i.e. reduction of funds. However, I must say now, and I hope that neither the finance minister nor the chairman of the Council of Ministers will understand this indiscriminately, so I am speaking very well on purpose to make and satisfy this balanced relationship within the items, because I think that if we did so, to probably attract it, we might get some support and some others who today say they will not be able to support it. So, here's a short cut, since I'm running out of time, you can clearly see here from item to item, starting with the Council of Ministers Secretariat, and through the ministries in the Council of Ministers, that everyone has a significant increase in their items, which is not at all balanced by the relationship between budget users. And now, in order not to go from ministry to ministry, I'm just going to say, so the first Council of Ministers Secretariat has a significant increase in funds. Then onward, there are six ministries out of eight which have a significant increase in funds. And when you look at the individual items in the tables afterwards, it is seen that the significant funds that have been increased go right to the pay item, gross payments, which will be received in these ministries. Here, the finance minister also told us that not only is it intended not to be, that new employees are not received in 2012 but that they are also going to be reduced. If items are increased for wages, gross payments, then it can only be two things, or to increase the salaries of existing employees or to receive a new number of employees. And on the other hand, on the other hand, it's seen that, for example, the State Border Service is very reduced funds, and that's reduced by salary, reduced by income and jurisdiction, reduced travel costs, everything else means what people are receiving. So is it normal to increase the ministries and officials of the ministries, and to reduce the state border service, not to mention the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. I will talk about the prosecution when this information on their work today, where there is also a financial report, where the prosecution is increased by 400 and some thousands, to the Court of BiH by 2 million. So is that normal? I don't think it's normal and it's fortunate that this is going in a regular procedure, that there's an amendment phase and that things are being corrected and repaired in this way, that this budget could really satisfy and that, most importantly, we don't have some protests tomorrow, demonstrations, people's dissatisfaction. The social tension is very, very tense in BiH for known reasons anyway. Here, these are the meanings of the proposals, the amendment phase goes, so we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9966	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9967	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honorable chairman of the Council of Ministers, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished fellows and colleagues, I think, I think, because I didn't want to report for 55 replicas, whether I should reply first or begin the debate, but first I will, so if I have time, then I will comment on these steps. So, we here today with a delay of about seven or eight months, and I'm not accusing anyone in this Chamber, we have a draft law on the BiH Budget for 2012. I'll just remind you it's business, legal, etc. the obligation to deliver the budget by 15.10th of the current year for the following year. This is certainly not the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, but it is the responsibility of the Presidency as an official proposal, the Presidency which had been made the Proposal for a Law on the Budget and before the new Council of Ministers called but did not deliver it. So here's the fact, dear colleague Ljubić said that after a year and a half of the temporary funding, we're talking about the chance to have a budget. This is still a chance, a suggestion. Whether we take that chance or not, we'll see at the end of the debate. Given that I have never heard of any unreserved support from this budget, at least from the debaters so far, so one is making an observation on the fiscal framework. I'll just remind you, maybe the Fiscal Council Act is wrong, maybe it's wrong, but in the Fiscal Council Act, we've figured out who determines the fiscal framework and we've accepted it. Now we can change this law and then we can include Parliament in the fiscal framework, but now the post-festum is what it is. I haven't heard, I have to say, not in the debate so far, not in the commission phase, except for general regrets that it's a small fiscal framework of the state, I haven't heard how much money is missing and where the missing money would be used. So I'm saying this again well-meaning to all those who would increase the capacity of this budget, let's see if I could back it up, but just to see where these money would be used, for which purposes and what principle would we satisfy. This budget, it's said to be restrictive, that it rests on multiple and numerous savings and I'm saying, so I personally don't have an example of the capacity of this budget, because I may not have enough information, and I have no idea where that extra money would spend. But if we're looking at the bulky side of this budget, I have to say I have a significant number of observations. It was said in this budget, in a statement, that all salaries were reduced by 4.5%. Looking at gross payments and expenses on the spending side, we can see that 1% is an increase. Now we have an explanation, but we don't see anywhere else, that 291 employees, a clerk, etc., might be admitted, and that's calculated into that amount. I have to say that now maybe it is, maybe it isn't. Costs of employees were reduced by 12%, given that another 300 employees would be admitted, that percentage of the reduction in the cost of employees was significantly lower. Travel expenses are reduced by 11%. I wish it was analytically separated, the cost of travel in the country and out of the country, so we'd see where it's being saved and where it's not being saved. I'm not really sure it's good, because we know the good part of who are the users of these fees official travel in the country, and who are the users of fees official travel abroad. We have reduced the country's diaries by 50%, and these diaries are mostly used by officials and tenants in various official visits to the country, and for official trips outside the country by only 10%. What's the principle if it's 50%, 50% and out of the country, and all the same, what my colleague Franjičević was already saying. The cost of telephone and postal services has been reduced by 13% and we don't see where they've been reduced. We have a declaration: mobile phone costs are down. How are they reduced? Who are they reduced to? So there are different suggestions and ideas, and practice in many countries that the cost of mobile phones is not paid to anyone. Maybe, here's a thought about it too, so we might have a much bigger savings in that item. Now, what's particularly interesting is I'm going to be commenting on the increase. Purchase of 56 materials, the total amount is around 38.5 million, with an increase of 7 million. The purchase of materials and transport and fuel costs? Have we ever had any material, have we ever obtained any material, what this supply of material refers to, because for the past four years we haven't bought this material at all, and now we have to get it for the last four years. What is the cost of fuel savings, is mentioned somewhere to save, and the increase is 19%.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9968	I'm asking the honourable representative to take care of the weather. NO ONE
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9969	48 million contracted services and an increase of 4 million. I wish it was analytically said what it was. These contracted services include presentation costs and various other privileges but they are clouded through here by some other need. The purchase of buildings is good if this is a result, i.e.... policy to resolve the accommodation of institutions etc., but the purchase of equipment... 47%, as if we didn't have any equipment in these last four years and we're rebuilding the state now so we're getting equipment, etc., etc. It's too important that this country finally gets the budget, and it's certainly worth more than... all these grudges. But here, and we will retain the right to try to correct one part of these principles through the amendment phase, so I hope we get support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9970	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9971	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9972	Here you go, Saša Magazinović business intervention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9973	The Honorable Chairman, if we agreed to have five minutes, so it doesn't apply to a colleague of Lozančić's, but it applies to all of us, because I'm following, each one goes over at least a minute or two. If we go 5 minutes, try to cut to 5 minutes because there's no difference to what would otherwise be.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9974	Thank you. I just, uh, before calling the next speaker, wanted to ask the MPs to stick to that time. For two, three MPs have exceeded that time significantly, and here I hope we'll stick to this time of five minutes in the future. Dear Representative Anto Domazet. Here you go. _________(?) 57 [[no microphone turned on]] Excuse me, Mr. Domazet. I didn't see it. Replica, sir... _________(?) Replica to Mr. Magazinović. So I didn't use those six-seven minutes, so don't talk to everyone.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9977	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to begin by saying that we hold that this Bill on the Budget of the Institutions of BiH is a maximum possible document that has maximum balanced, on the one hand, tasks arising from the constitutional position of BiH and its institutions, tasks related to our European and NATO path and tasks related to the current phase of economic reforms that we must undertake to accelerate economic development. I would view this budget as one programmed budget. So what we have foreseen as tasks is why the resources of 950 million are provided and that is one optimum that corresponds to the economic strength, i.e. the economic capabilities of the country that are set for the level of BiH institutions by the global fiscal framework. We see this budget earlier as a budget with enormous political significance compared to the relatively small economic significance it has. In this budget, it contained only 3.7% of the value of the gross domestic product, while we know that public spending in BiH is 51% of gross domestic product. However, it is a matter of the constitutional constitution of BiH and should be recalled that entities are the holders of those functions that are related to development and social spheres in society, which is why they have relatively larger budgets and larger out-of-budgest funds. I'd like to say it's not a great situation in entities either. The data show that in 2008 the RS budget amounted to a billion and 500 million marks and that 2012 amounts to a billion and 825 million, with the 2008 deficit being 64 million and 2012. - 229 million. So, for the most part, nearly one sixth is financed by deficits and the question is how much will it be achieved in the first place. On the other hand, in 2008, the Federation of BiH had a billion 834m budget and in 2012, it has a billion 736m. So less, with the 2008 deficit of 53 million and in 2012, the entire 349 million marks. So, the tendency to strengthen entities and the weak state, this empirical data is being refuted, and I think we have to look, go the other way, and we have to actually keep in mind another picture of things, not the one we put on the basis of... expectations or predictions. It is very important for us that this money that is allocated to the budget, this 950 million, be spent effectively. The proposal made by the Council of Ministers on Savings is heading in that direction. However, it is very important that we see what results we will have from the use of this 950 million. So, what will be the picture of BiH's economic future, the social future, our picture on its way to the EU, at least in the part concerning the role of BiH institutions? The budget itself is an important factor in improving political stability and BiH's reputation in the international public. I think, above all, that he can have very big reflections on improving BiH's economic attractiveness. That's what we need most now. And 58 I think we are doing more for BiH by adopting the budget than we are about to lose ourselves in endless discussions that cannot change the situation more significantly in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9978	Thank you. Next is the distinguished representative Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9979	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I'll try to fit in at this time. First of all, it is good that there has been a budget and that we are able to discuss it today, the truth in the first reading, and I hope that it will get enough support to make certain adjustments that we have made here through the amendment action. We in the SNSD, also my colleague Markovićka made certain remarks and suggestions, we will act in amendment, but we are pleased that this new Council of Ministers has succeeded in quite a bit, we must say, a short time to prepare this budget. I hope the Six Leaders had a deal. For me, it's in addition to whether the agreement lasted, signed orally or in writing, and for the word people bond and stick to, and that's good. And we agree that this budget and its 950 million framework don't cross over. And that's good. In particular, I am pleased that it is in a certain way, and I have followed it in EU countries, that most countries, except for Germany (they went a little bit with the increase), most countries go restrictively and with budget cuts. But when you compare this BiH budget and the entity budget, then we have some problems here when the fighters are demobilized, and it's causing us a problem for the few thousand people. Imagine what it's like in entities where there are 250, 300 thousand pensioners, and from these budgets, that is, it needs to be resolved from these funds. It is therefore better to keep some of the funds in entities in some way, not because the entities would be special units, i.e. specific states, but rather to be led there by both development and economic, and financial, and social policy. And for those reasons, it's better to stay there and this part is certainly consumer. To congratulate the Council of Ministers for making certain savings, with what else can be done. So I'm gonna say a few things where you might still get some things... In RS, phones are not paid, mobile, so everyone's money. We cut it in half here, maybe even lower. Then, we can reduce the number of soldiers in the Department of Defense, which can be reduced. It can also be reduced and rationalised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the reduction of DKP's representations, etc. Then go further towards reducing both teams and reducing the costs of telephone, transport, etc. And here I propose one of the ideas, although I didn't get any support anywhere, I personally think that you should make the salary come together like it is in Europe, that the salary is received, not that you receive a warm meal, and transportation to work, and regression and so on. That's what needs to be framed in pay. Because it's ugly now that you hear on TV that a cop only has 650 marks, so when it's taken for him to have a hot meal, so it's taken to have a ride to work, some have, some don't. I think we should strive to make it pay, and then we could say exactly if that's the way it is, and that's how it's done in the RS in the government. I think it's for thinking, and in any case, I hope 59 will take care of those who suggest it, because then we'd have a little better review of the situation. Because we have on one side that police officers, on one side you have police officers who are paid in the RS less or in the Federation than the State Border Service. In some ways, it should seek unification. Here, I hope that through the amendment phase we will still have the opportunity to in some way influence and move within 950 million of this budget, which is what we will begin and return the credit ratings that we have lost in BiH in some way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9980	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9981	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, here we are, quite already said, but I'll say a few words. I think there are more reasons why the SDA Club will not support this 2012 budget. Unlike the 2011 budget, which we haven't seen with our eyes – is it, which was created in some way by consumption, spent and something embedded there, and said that this was the 2011 budget – here in 2012 we have significant progress, we have this budget. Now, in that budget, it is truly necessary to make certain adjustments in order to be acceptable to everyone, in order to be a budget that will strengthen the BiH state. At this point, it is neither acceptable, nor has there been certain items showing that the BiH state is being strengthened, rather, by entities. I'll try it here in a few sentences and prove it. So, mostly, this is what my colleague Fazlić was talking about, a small fiscal framework. How we got to this fiscal framework is a special story. In fact, we don't all know yet. I heard on the Commission from the finance ministry and the vault that the Fiscal Council made two conclusions, and said that the 2008 Budget of BiH was frozen and then said that it had been decommissioned from the Single Account 750 million. What would be the result of the cause called the Global Fiscal Framework and the document we're supposed to have, we don't actually have. So we don't have that global fiscal framework. And here, that I can swallow this fiscal year, but freezing the budget by 2015 at the 2008 budget funding is a completely unacceptable thesis. And I don't even understand why this fact, here's when we discuss it, we don't treat it as one very important thing. On the other hand, that we have a global fiscal framework, that we know what incomes are, what expenditures are, not only BiH states but entities and all levels of government, means cantons and municipalities, that we know what the entity's upper limit of debt is, then we could, in the end, at the beginning or at the end, better say at the beginning of each fiscal year, sort of revise that fiscal framework for next year. I don't think we have it today, and in such a way, in some period, we can't approach it and in fact come to the situation that we believe it's true that, through two conclusions, the fiscal council of the BiH state has kind of frozen funding from 2008. Furthermore, as far as this budget is concerned, no one has ever said that before, the laws of this country were not respected when it was created. Here, I will remind us all here that we in this House have brought amendments and additions to the Armed Forces Act. In that law, we said that all the soldiers who spent two years in the Army of the Republic of BiH, the HVO and the Republika Srpska military, and stopped their contract in 60 Armed Forces, have the right to retire. I don't see those funds planned in this budget. Does anyone have a hypothetical idea of what it's going to look like in the future, whether it's gonna break the law or not, I don't care. I'm interested in... there's a law, that I expect these funds in the budget. Unless something else is decided by this parliament in a future period, it has a budget rebalance, let it cast it out, etc., but it is now obvious that it should have been in the BiH state budget. We compared to 2008, and then they were projected, so at that level these budgets were projected, we have a new 12 state institutions. I don't see in this budget the ability to fill these institutions and then those as state institutions can respond to the obligations they have. We have the Anti-Corruption, Crime, Terrorism Agency. With what capacity can it oppose these monsters of today's society? It can't be done.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9982	I'd only like to take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9983	Yeah, I'm sorry. Here, I'll just say it back and I won't go any further. So no one here has even talked about the funds planned to return. In this budget... 6 million were to be found for the distribution so that donations could be taken over. That's the essential thing. There's no such thing in this budget. Why was it an international conference? On the basis of which now we, which will separate from the budget, will be able to take over these donor funds and then move towards the end of the return process? Is that what we gave up coming back? As an MP in this House, I am not and I want to point out that problem. Eh, since my time is up, these five minutes, here I am thanking you, sorry I wasted my time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9984	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9985	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9986	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9987	Thank you, Chairman. I would first of all, here, listen carefully to the discussion of fellow MPs from the U.S.A. and I would like to congratulate them on their good opposition action. _________(?) 61 [[no microphone turned on]] In good opposition action, you heard me well. Because after the BiH Constitution, the budget is the country's most important act. And when someone doesn't accept that act and doesn't agree with it, the SDS doesn't agree with it, then it should stay, if the reasons really are for you; be careful, if your arguments are all, then you should remain principled until the end. If I were you today, our ministers would resign. That would be principled and that would mean that you really believe what you're saying. Like this, I'm afraid, I've heard a statement by Mr. Sulejman Tihić in Srebrenica saying: we cannot support the budget containing the item "local elections". So we're watching a show here because the SDA is afraid of local choices. As far as these budgets are concerned, counterpart Fazlić was talking about the growth of the RS budget, so your colleague and MPs upstairs and the SDS deputies just criticised that growth because it was based, unfortunately, on credit duties, only because we took about half a billion new loans at a meeting of the National Assembly. Furthermore, it says: the entities of the weak state are being strengthened. Here someone comes from a completely wrong premise, the strength of BiH by measuring its public spending and the height of this budget. BiH is as strong as its real sector is strong, as strong as its economy. Unfortunately, we're in debt, we're taking loans, it's Mr. Kasumović, I don't see him here, I love him here to quote when he says: we're taking loans to pay. If anyone was talking about it, he was talking about it. We need, BiH is as strong as it is through our entity budgets, which have that possibility, we invest in the economy. And instead of burdening our economy, which increases taxes, contributes to reducing them, this measures the strength of BiH, not its public spending. What is suffocating BiH right now is its megalomanic public spending that I think needs to be fucked at all levels, while increasing those development items and doing fiscal decentralisation of BiH, increasing the municipal budgets that are just transferring funds to those that are most needed, citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9989	Very, very soon I'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9990	Dear Representative Asim Sarajlić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9991	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So if today was the end of the budget procedure and it was the end of the debate, the U.S.A. would probably take the steps you're talking about. We might pull our ministers out of power today. Maybe we'd move on to the right opposition. But today's debate is proof that we are making progress in our democratic society, that we are having a parliamentary debate and that, as the six-member who formed the Council of Ministers and made some arrangements on key laws and reforms in this country, we do not all think the same thing. And that we, of course, have, as far as Srebrenica is concerned, we in the U.S.A. have our own say about it. That we have our own position on the growth of the economy, on VAT spending, or on funds collected from the Single Account, on formulas, on the fiscal framework. Is there really that document? Here, we asked an hour ago, something more, if there was a document called the Fiscal Framework in BiH or if there were only two conclusions of the Fiscal Council that treated only the state. 62 We just want, and what we heard today in the debates and from colleagues Marković and from all of us, there are very good suggestions, and Beriz and all the others, and Niko spoke. We don't have the same arches. That's what we from the U.S.A. are talking about. We don't have the same archaics when we're talking about this budget and its analysts and subanalysts. Of course we'll discuss it when the time comes and when we're in the amendment phase. We know very well what the budgets of local, cantonal, entity-level budgets are to state level. But we don't think the burden of the crisis is the same in this country. And that we must secure the way of this country and the means for this country's path to the EU. And I hope that in this parliamentary debate, we don't need to waste words or go back to some of the things that were in the past. Here, in a democratic atmosphere, we express our views, and the U.S.A., of course, when it cannot achieve its policy through power, it will know what it is doing to it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9992	I thank the honourable representative, Asim Sarajlić. It may need to change the SDA argument, but I think there's still this document, but we'll see. I hope it's in the hands of all of us soon. Next to the replica, distinguished representative Salko Sokolović reported.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9993	Very briefly, with this time I spent on the discussion, Mrs. Pandurević. So, I'm fighting that this state of BiH -- Mrs. Pandurević, you asked me a certain question -- so I'm fighting that the BiH state is stronger, I guess you're doing that, but when I say that there are 6 million missing in the return budget, so that we can take the funds from the Donor Conference, then I know what I'm saying, then I know that it's on the way to strengthening the BiH state, because it's the return process. But when I say, and that's what Mr. Domazet just said, that entity governments don't know how to do business because they're in a deficit, because this country is, and now I'm going to say what deficit, in which deficit... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please take my time. Then I will say that in 2009, the BiH state cut the salaries 10% and did not raise them until 2012. I'll take the Federation. I'm not interested in RS. 10% increased the Federation of Salaries and then dropped them by 4%. We don't hire here, people get hired in entities, and there's a lot of deficits. And then it's the state that's going to settle those assets to the entities from the Single Account. It's a weakness of the BiH state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9995	Thank you. The next call came the distinguished representative Amir Fazlić. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9996	Here, I'm going to replicate to my colleague, but here's to saying that already the discussion of the SDA MPs has brought something good today, and here's the first time we've seen the Global Fiscal Framework visually, and I'm satisfied with that. It means there is a document, although most MPs feel there is no document. Maybe I believe they'll multiply us by the end of the session and we'll all see it and we'll be too pleased at the end of the session if we see it. And I've been thinking to my colleague Pandurević if it's necessary to replicate at all. We are not looking to strengthen the state through an increase in public spending. A strong state and a border police officer, it's a picture, that's what the gentleman spoke very well on the Finance Commission. A strong state and a good state police officer. The strong state is also officials in institutions... and not that we have 20,000 here, one; the other is the question of standardisation who and how and when he hired. I was supposed to ask these questions today, but we had to send it in writing, so we'd see that I asked how many in RS and how many in the Federation and how many in all municipalities. And that's the state, and that's where the money's being spent. If we're gonna save, let's all save. And the state doesn't just have to be strong through the public spending of these 20,000 people. I'm the first to cut it to 10,000, but they're very good, very high-quality and very good at doing their job. This thesis on strengthening, I have presented here data, I did not replicate to Professor Domazet because it is not very polite to replicate to the professor, the respected professor, but this budget thesis and this numerical value of the federal budget and RS expressed through these figures is being refuted through this data that in the RS we had 325 million budget increases from 2008 to 2011 and 166 million in the Federation. They're facts. Somebody deny me. It's one thing to plan a federal budget and put both credit debts and these incomes and those incomes there, one thing to plan and not make it happen, it's one thing to plan the RS budget and put these and those revenues in the way we want them to. We were chiefs, so we put it there when we want to increase revenues, says revenues from higher levels of government 5 million. When we justify that we didn't do it, he says they didn't give it to us, so we criticize them all. So that's where we can develop a series of theories and a series of thesis. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9997	I thank the honourable representative. Here, information to the MPs, this document of the Global fiscal framework policy and information that we from the College got it 10 minutes ago, so we didn't keep anything from you. Next to the replica, distinguished representative Dušanka Majkić appeared.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u9998	Well, I'd like to say about these open stories that the United States is talking about, it would really be good if one debate turned on the subject: does many institutions mean a lot of BiH? _________(?) 64 [[no microphone turned on]] Well, thank you, buddy, really. I'm trying, if it could be an element based on which to judge, then we could justify those who have made 74 institutions to date, of which more than 40 agencies, directorates, bodies of various kinds have become their own purpose. And I would really appreciate what the SDA is saying that they have once supported any reduction of pointless institutions. Don't put it on my ear, man. So several times I've put up with initiatives at this home, for these initiatives I've never received the consent of the SDA. I remind you that the concessions Commission, which we founded 10 years ago, has not responded to a single concession so far, pays 10,000 leases a month in the palace and has not issued a single document in its jurisdiction. You did not agree to be examined, that the Council of Ministers should examine its jurisdiction or that it should be abolished. The Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments (FIPA), which has 26 employees, is located in the Avaz Tower, for which it pays 250,000 marks annually and a budget of which it has 4 plus 2 = 6 million and works on a document called..., and we all know that it ended in 2007, and no longer exists. That's six million. The Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance where your party colleague, who also has room in the palace, has 10,000 marks a year, until the arrival of this director you recently set up, came twice a year, twice in six months. And now we've set up a new, ten board members who get paid every month and didn't agree to do anything about it. The Ministry of Security, which has 200 employees, has no operational jurisdiction, so coordination. He's coordinating with 200 employees, sending a rule to the Council of Ministers that he has 300, and you're telling me that you're about to raise wages to the border police and the rest of them.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10000	Replication time's up. You have a debate, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10001	So it's really not correct. The SDA would have to take care of these things. Chairman, I really don't know, wait for me for a minute, and let the rest of you go two or three more. Well, it doesn't make sense.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10002	I've seen you have a debate yet, so I think you can say in the debate, continue that. I apologize if I've been unjust.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10003	Oh, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10004	The following came to the debate, the esteemed representative Zvonko Jurišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10005	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, after these discussions, the question arises and many things are not clear to me: who is the promoter of this, come on, let's call it 'The Draft Budget for BiH institutions'? Is it the six leaders of 65 political parties that make up the parliamentary majority of whom we have heard some discuss here, so it would not be said that they were very much involved in making and bringing this up. Is it the Council of Ministers or the Ministry of Finance or is it the BiH Presidency? I kind of feel like he's taking everything off of himself, but he's been working on that document out of all these things I've counted a little bit. I'll just have a few things like that... analytically that are confusing in all of this and where at the beginning of the finance minister we heard that means the pay base was reduced by 4.5% to all the users of the BiH institutions' budget, except for those who have fewer incomes than 500 KM. But if you're looking at the items, so the users of this 74 budget, then there's actually some confusing stuff. Here, I can't say for myself that I don't even know about the budget, but here I have the Court of BiH: an increase in the number of employees, although there is no increase in the number of employees in 2012, they will increase 40 employees and increase in the salary item and compensation of 82,000. I would like someone here who wrote this from the Court of BiH, who runs accounting, to explain very practically this: ever since these 40 people, who these people are, what their coefficients are, what their salaries are. This certainly doesn't add up here, and this, this is what 40 people pay, usually there, simply, I don't know, the ones with the middle or the low-experts. In the prosecution we also have an increase in the salary item, and they will receive 11 employees by 505,000 marks, or here is the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, there is the chairman of the Council of Ministers, and this year you will increase the number of employees by 13 and an item at the salaries of 530,000 marks. In the ministry of foreign trade and economic relations, they will increase the number of employees by 12 and raise the salaries of 320,000 marks. Now, I'd really like it here if I had every one of these to say we're going to get three people, a Soviet reference officer, who, on a yearly basis, with salaries and fees that cost so much, will start working from the sixth month for that and that. We have, I say, the conclusion of those who are here, at least so according to the Constitution, that they are obliged to deliver the draft budget, and that is the Presidency, where they have the conclusion that they are not receiving any activity this year, and we have seen in the end that we have 291. And that is why it is not okay either to cut salaries, especially here when I said that in some way the finance minister said that a warm meal had been reduced from 8 to 6 KM for workers in BiH institutions. I'm normally the attitude that a warm meal doesn't need to be at all, that it should be an integral part of the salary. As some of the colleagues here have said, this is a matter of clean discrimination between the employees and the citizens of BiH. Some, which strengthen the state, cantons, entities, have a warm meal of 12 marks. Here's a colleague who says 15. And from this, what we're getting all the BiH citizens, and when it's put on the pile, it's supposed to settle down first that warm meal of 15, and here we need to cut from 8 to 6. I said, I'd cancel it, put the whole eight in wages, and be paid for it and contributions. Here it means 22,000 employees of the BiH institution, as of today when this is adopted, will be discriminated against in the most cruel way possible, is it, in relation to their working colleagues, also, who care for the stability of this country, for its progress and that, whether they have these three times or not, especially in public enterprises, it is again a special story, they have 16 to 18 marks there. In electricity, in FERKs, Derks, NOSs, etc. I don't know either. They have 16 to 18 marks there. Here there were little words about the revenue side, I thought these... economic experts in BiH that they would talk about it a little bit. Let's ask ourselves, here's my colleague Majkić was saying, "Let the director and director of the BiH concession agency come here and see what they've done." I'd disband them right now and send them home. They didn't do anything, they took the pay out of the budget from all of us, and they didn't do anything. But if they did right, they should be rewarded. You've got as many as you want, don't you? That's why the problem here is the understanding of private, social and state... 66
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10006	I'd like to take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10007	Here, just here, Mr. Domazet was talking about deficits, here's the chairman, since we're from the same club, so I'm asking 20 seconds about deficits, these entity budgets, and I'd like him to think, because he's a famous economist, about 9 billion BiH citizens in banks in BiH. Of that over 6.5 billion savings, fortunately I'm in the Hippo Bank, I just don't know if I'm still gonna hold on, is that, is this why I wouldn't give them to the state on some small interest, if I believe in the state. Here, economists think it over. So nine billion, ask the Director of Central Bank here when it's: nine billion...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10008	I would like to ask the honourable representative, Zvonko Jurišić, to take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10009	There are deposits in the banks here. The revenue side we need... and this expenditure will come from itself. And more money from more countries, that's what the finance minister said at the beginning, and I think there's room for this budget to be fixed both on the income and on the expenditure side.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10010	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić, Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10011	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The most well-intentioned replica of the esteemed colleague Jurišić. My friend Jurišić, it's very important, and you're not listening to me, but okay, never mind, I'll take 10 seconds. My colleague Jurišić, it's very important 8 on 6 marks, so these two marks. Gentlemen, if we're keeping an eye on this situation and we think it's going to take a while, and I'm not freaking out, is there anyone in there who can think of a Greek syndrome, and now in Spain where 500 billion are almost euros, so Europe will help them, who will help us. And there he plays Mesi, he won't be anything or taxed, he'll be as still. Ronaldo will play again. Here, there's a tennis tournament. And we're here to discuss whether two brands of a warm meal will be reduced, six. Will anyone consider whether the I.D.O. is going to be an indirect tax and this kind of pace is going to be, like, fundraising at all? Will anyone here have anything to import, always have an importer who will import something but who will sell it to? Who's gonna collect those taxes? We seem to be finishing our prosperity in BiH with this session, and this is how it will last for the next 100 years. People, in 15 days, the situation can change completely, so we won't need any of this budget. Let's think about it that way. Another thing, many are here in illusions as something we'll change with amendments. The amendments will only make it complicated that we will never adopt the budget. Everyone's got an objection to some side. I've got a hundred objections here, too. I just read this and watch... 67 __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, the absurdity, the RS v. The Court and the D.A., and you, you, not you, but someone there increased 2 million marks, gave them 2 million, and we want to end it. How now? He's got to sew both his pockets, borrow a coat, come home and brag about how I came in with a new suit, right? So laugh all you want, I like to speak in the language of the people, because this isn't the Academy of Science and Art so we can talk big theories, so if someone sews a label on us, there's a guy from... It's not this... this is BiH that needs to be saved whatever budget it is, and we're not going to adopt it if we conduct the debate like this, so we're going to be in the illusions, changing it. Expect my 50 amendments; 50 of my own, 50 of Sarajlić's colleagues.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10013	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10014	You won't be much, okay. Comrade Jurišić, we've already agreed. You'll be 40. And how long will this adoption take? Until we get a mandate. Guys, give what we have and fight, to create a solid border, to give this police a little better income, to collect what they can collect, to take away from those they've already taken from us and from this people. And it doesn't take that with a stick, but with regulations. Hello, you're stealing, man! Now that's the story I was talking about thieves. Well, I didn't mention anyone individually. But I always enjoy it when someone finds that I can mention it tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10015	Thank you. Dear colleague Emir Kabil, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10016	Dear President, honourable MPs, I belong, as you know, to the opposition, now I don't know who the opposition is. And listening to the position today, I can say that this draft budget has a thousand problems. I will talk today, not about these problems individually which the honourable MPs have spoken of, but I will try to talk about the principles of this draft, and I will try to convince you that positive political implications and improving credit ratings with this draft budget are in fact negative political implications. Why? I am not sure that positive political implications and improvement of credit ratings will be present if at the entrance to the BiH state, if you see big signs in the homes at the entrance to the airport in Sarajevo or Banja Luka: a warning strike. I'm not sure a single investor in the world who sees a warning strike, yet it's not a strike, will place a stamp and invest a brand in this country. I'm absolutely not sure about that. And I'm not sure if there's a strike, it'll improve the credit rating. I'm not sure about that. I don't see why a credit rating in a powerful state like Greece didn't improve, but it's the worst in the world. 68 This is an extremely resuscitative budget, based on maximum savings, and that is not controversial. We have agreed to accept a fiscal framework or a financial framework of 950 million, and that is not disputed. The country is in a very difficult situation. Whether it's a political agreement or not, it doesn't matter. We said 950 million should please our institutions. But I ask you one question: will this 950 million, where 4.5% of people's salaries are reduced from 500 marks to 1,200 marks, and these are over 12,000, achieve positive political implications and improve credit ratings? I'm saying he won't. Because the strike at our border crossings is more than indicative of the state this country is in. Four organizations that protect both cantons and entities are crucial to me in this country. They're a state to me. And that's the SIPA, the Direct Taxation Authority, which works very well, it's the State Border Service, so you want the judiciary, and certain categories of judiciary are abolished. If you think people who conduct these jobs at the border, at these crossings, will be satisfied with this, you're wrong. This is a threatening bomb. Gentlemen, you from the position clearly said there are a thousand problems in this budget. You do a budget because you have power, you have power, you don't take money from those people who behave and provide this state and all entities. It's a message from the Alliance for a Better Future, it's our message, not as some demagogue approach, but a message to simply provide the safety and future of this country. And in that sense, I want to inform you that this budget, we are the opposition, and besides, we are not creating this budget, we cannot accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10017	Thank you. Dear colleague Danijela Martinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10018	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. So, I'd go ahead and agree with Mr., my esteemed Professor Domazet, when he said it was a balanced budget. We are all aware of the fact that this is a resuscitative budget based on savings, but it was still taken into account when conjecturing that budget on income balance and expenditure. So Professor Domazet mentioned the deficits of entity budgets, he just wanted to give an example that the entity's budgets are in significant dubiosis, i.e. a significant deficit. So we tried to sort of get away from that principle, or we tried to find a balance between income and expenditure. So, so far, we've had a surplus, so aware of the fact that more than 31 million KM remained neutral last year, which tells us that there is room for savings. Of course, Mr. Kabil's right. So we should take care of it, I hope the Council of Ministers and the Presidency has kept an eye on the items on which savings can be made. There's room for savings anyway. If we had all received, and even here in Parliament, at the time of this budget, this draft budget, we might have given a much better one and, of course, there is an amendment phase and the possibility of our amendment action, and certainly, including in this regular budget-making procedure, we could analyse the item per item, the ministry per ministry, the agency per agency. So it would probably really be... brought a much better solution. 69 We know that the amount of 950 million is the amount of the budget, but that's the amount none of us here individually invented and proposed. It is ultimately the result of compromises, compromises and agreements on the Fiscal Council where representatives of our ministry were, as were representatives of entity finance ministries. Are we satisfied with this amount? Of course, no one is satisfied, as neither the entities with the amount they received are satisfied, nor are we satisfied with the amount of 950 million. But still, what's our alternative? Temporary financing, amounting to 900-905 million and the inability to assume obligations, i.e. the implementation of obligations that we have relating to the census, relating to the equipment of border crossings, so BIPs, the granting of CIPs' personal cards, the financing of newly created institutions. Therefore, these items did not exist in the budget of the previous years, and thus could not be transferred to this today's budget, i.e. they could not comply with those obligations. So, follow us to the amendment phase. Today we will not adopt the budget in the first and second stages, in the first and second readings, there is the possibility of action. So no one's contesting it. But what would be good, so when it comes to budgeting, the budgeting process, what I mentioned last year, so when we adopted, let me say, in the regular budget procedure of 2010, it was my appeal that the Finance and Budget Committee and this Parliament were actively involved in the budgeting process. So we can finally hold on to some of these deadlines. After all, the Council of Ministers should not avoid us, parliamentarians are here to give some proposals and opportunities for improvement. Also, when it comes to macroeconomic indicators based on this budget, I have 2010 data, please what year is it now? So the proposal for this budget... was delivered, as far as I can see, in the fourth month, so there was space and time to update that data for macroeconomic indicators, GDP etc. So this is when it comes to the very compliance with economic policies that are related to macroeconomic indicators. And of course, program budgeting, the good side of that budget is that now we really have much more quality tables when it comes to budgetary programming. If we'd gotten this budget in time, like we didn't, unfortunately, we could've really been more detailed and dedicated to it. Then we could also see which agency, which ministry has which objectives, how quantifiable these objectives are, how individual activities are valued, and therefore perhaps more relevantly we could conclude how much funding the institution needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10019	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10020	First I want to tell you this morning's one-time story. When I left the hotel where I live, there is an important person in front of the hotel, and there is a new BMW jeep waiting for one significant person. I couldn't know who it was right away, but later I found out it was the deputy director of one of the BiH institutions. Then they told me, "Don't be naive." That's the deputy. You can imagine how the directors have it. So, you can imagine what kind of directors have! It was a good message to me this morning before I went to today's session to ask about the budget. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10021	It's some host from the SDS.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10022	Where are the savings and reserves? If we were honest and wanted to talk about it openly, we wouldn't need the border police, or the SIPA, or anyone to say it's damaged, we shouldn't be the first to sit here with shame watching these people strike, how the columns stand, how the kids thirsty in the cars are sitting, and we'd have to do something ourselves in that field. Obviously, that sensitivity doesn't exist. So, for me, what the six, 950 million agreed on for BiH institutions, is a done deal. So, after a lot of compromises, after a lot of compromise requests, we came up with that data. How much next time, if we're ever going to have a budget again, that's the thing we're going to talk about, but this year we have a chance to have it. And he's 950 million. I asked people who worked on the budget: how are we going to get to the 2012 budget? And what did they tell me? The first item is the implementation of the 2011 budget. And that was undeniable. As much as he's had the execution, it's the same. Second paragraph, budget planning for the census. We certainly know that we finally got that law and that we have to finish this job and prepare for the most of this year. Third item, necessary funds for local elections. And we know that we have to prepare and that this thing has to end, and that's a rational reason against whom I think no political party, I hope, that those who accuse of wanting to stop the election, that it's not true and that no political party has anything against providing funds for it. The fourth item, the necessary capital investment that will help BiH end the crossings, as Croatia enters the EU next year, to ensure that we can export our goods. And there was a point. Today, when I got the budget, and it's very scary, it's really terrible, when you get such an important document right before the session, then you actually realize how powerless you are, how nothing you can do and what you can't do is because MPs can't actually do anything. When I got it, then I saw that the Ministry of Defence had increased 11.5 million, that the Ministry of Finance instead of 6.8 got 10 million, that the Ministry of Civil Affairs had received more 34%, that means 14.6 million, that the Ministry of Transport and Communications was more than 64%, that the Ministry of Security had gotten 15% less, because I said what was the task of the Ministry of Security, where these reserves were, in fact, on a rational and significant reduction of employees in the Ministry of Security, that you imagine the Office of Public Administration Coordinators... which was temporarily separated from the Office of the Chair of the Council of Ministers in a separate organisation and which so far did nothing, and it was increased by 50% and its budget was 5.5 million. That the foreign trade and economic relations ministry had a budget greater by 6.6 million and that the General Secretariat was increased by 44% and it has some budget of nearly 4 million. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So to those who have been reduced, these are smaller institutions that have less value and one specific one that is all reduced, that is Parliament. And now I'm going to tell you what it's like for Parliament. 71 The report, i.e. information written by the secretary of the Joint Service, Ferid Buljubašić, says Parliament has been reduced even in comparison to the 2011 execution. Parliament will have nothing to finance the fourth quarter. None of the MPs have any more trips. So this Parliament will be a cooperative. (?) No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10025	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10026	Here, they're all these, here's a colleague who'll... [[Common discussion]] I have a colleague. So, travel costs have been reduced, and in the last term I think I only traveled once on the cost of Parliament, everything else has been paying me someone else. So other colleagues traveled, so there is no more Parliament anywhere, there is no Council of Europe, there is nothing. The supply of equipment has been reduced, parliamentarians are driving cars that we have, which are 10 years old. Parliament cannot buy the damage, four vehicles are between eight and ten years old from more than 300,000 km. Not the chairman of Parliament, but the cars that MPs drive with when they go to the airport or I don't know either. So there's none of that. If this Parliament doesn't have the respect to do anything, not to change the things that are obvious here, then it doesn't make sense, this is a pointless story until now. There's room for savings, it's only a matter of will as to how much we're going to use it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10028	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10029	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I really didn't count today on commenting at all, even on the questions and initiatives raised from our previous sessions. However, here I am today counting on my fellow Milica to replicate, but I am particularly inspired that she is very supportive of it and I have really kept my mouth shut. But to this answer that my colleague Dušanka made, I don't think she's for the budget at all, because she's got me confused. I now know that she is for the budget, and on the other hand she is not. 72 However, respected colleagues and colleagues, I would like to say that if the ordinary people heard this, that today's elections and that they heard that we wanted to cut short, to close, to fire, would any of us already be in this election, would you pass? I think we've spoken quite differently in the election. That we will strengthen, increase, that we will not reduce anyone, that we will finance and develop, everything into a superlative. However, today it is, there is no optimism. However, I would like to ask what I particularly think reminds me of this situation of a peasant who has modeled 100 dulms of land and only seven planted and thinking whether and those seven to dig it up a little bit, and let it stop. I would really like us all here to realize that people are practically waiting for us to solve their financial, at least, elemental existence. And that's why, as a member of this party of my SDA, I won't support this budget and indeed those who support wear it on their souls, I don't want it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10030	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirza Kušljugić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10031	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, we got material quite late. I have worked very hard to look at several items and it can be realized in the global that the proposaler went to a very restrictive approach to the budget in terms of some of the items, so I simply couldn't not answer the word relating to some of these items. Namely, the key problem of BiH is how to reverse negative economic flows, and according to documents and analyses, which we do not have but are announced by some international institutions, BiH is waiting for the next three years as a very difficult period, a very, very slow economic recovery, and this is no problem that some Greek syndrome, no, has already defined Western Balkan syndrome. So these countries, which form the Western Balkans, and in the next three years, will have the smallest GDP growth in the entire European zone. The problems identified and proposed in many of the documents that international organisations are working on also refer to BiH are heading towards making a fiscal framework, that savings in the budget need to be made, but in order to invest. We simply can't base our exit from the crisis on a model that we've had for the last 10 years that was based on consumption. This country will not emerge from the crisis unless the production that is based on export is launched. And we all know that. When I say investment and even say... I don't mean big infrastructure projects, I don't even think about energy projects, and I mean, first of all, the investments that every country does, and especially the countries that... The EU needs to do, and these are investments in human capital. I just couldn't help but pick up the word when I was looking at the items. It is true that the Ministry of Civil Affairs has increased 34% of the budget, it is true that it is some poor 14 million and it is true that ten times more than 140 is the release of this ministry of scientific development or science and research and technological development in BiH, or not only on this budget but on all the BiH budgets, would not be enough. What I would like is to get one analysis of what other countries' EU accession budgets are. On this particular issue, I know that Serbia's radical budget has been increased in the last two or three years in terms of funding science and research. This is about 100m euros. Total allocations on all BiH budgets do not exceed 10 million. I don't want to talk about Croatia. That's 73 of the obligation. You know that in principle it is an obligation for each of the countries joining the EU to increase that percentage. Unfortunately, BiH is the '90s. There have been segregations in the year that would fully meet the EU criteria, over 2.5%, from industry, the majority, and the smaller from the budget. I think we're gonna have to face that question. In which way it will be resolved depending on the ingenuity of the Constitution, it is not so important now, but it would be good if we simply started to think and to separate something and to get access and to make useful use of the funds that exist in multilateral European funds. So, not the IPA funds we're getting, the only thing we can do is not make programs so we don't get them. There are multilateral programs. And here, since I'm running out of time, I'm just going to say that what I've noticed is that the last two years of separation for EU preparations... the projects are 0 plus 0. Sometimes the item was obviously while they were running. If we're gonna save on the team... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It was 200,000. _________(?) It was a million and a half.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10034	Thank you. Dear counterpart Dragan Vrankić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10035	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear fellow MPs, this little guest that's left, I'm sorry he doesn't have a colleague from the Council of Ministers. Today someone here has said that, in addition to the Constitution, the basic document is the budget of a state that sublimes all policies within itself. And I would say that he lies on the Global Fiscal Framework to bring to the Fiscal Council of BiH. In this Global fiscal framework or in the role of the Fiscal Council, I don't think we've guessed. I've been a member of the Fiscal Council for a long time, and I don't think it's fulfilling the role it should have played. The fiscal council must bring in all fiscal policies, consider in advance three years which direction the state should go and what its priorities are, what its objectives are and what they will look like. For example, whether we will reduce VAT, whether we will increase it, whether we will reduce contributions, increase contributions or go in a third direction to ensure what is necessary. 74 Unfortunately, the Fiscal Council dealt most with the global framework in terms of the distribution of income from the Single Account, what goes to the budget of the state, what we do everything for and we say, i.e. the economic situation of the country, or its success or failure. I would say that the formula is simple, that is what colleagues here have said, should reduce public spending, should be implemented, and at all levels, structural reforms should be implemented that will increase competitiveness, which will also indirectly lead to new investments, new employment, real sector development, resulting in an increase in GDP. When we get that, we also have the current participation that will not be 51% in the consumption phase but will be significantly less, or 40%, which should eventually be pursued. When it comes to this budget, this is just about the difference between some, I don't know, 40 million marks from the '11s. the years that are based on the temporary funding and what is proposed here. I shall immediately say that as a member of the HDZ and one of the six parties that have agreed, I will support this budget today at this vote for one simple reason because these 40 million is not as valuable as accepting the budget and the messages that go with its adoption. Given that this is a political leaders deal, and that all the problems we have in the country defacto come from political misunderstandings, then I welcome the political leaders' agreement and I would like them to sit around this budget one more time, so if there's something to fix that we don't lose our days and go concept in advance. Just a few words now, specifically, what are my remarks. We have received a budget that is now at the level of 2008 and we have received 15 new institutions. It doesn't mean that these new 15 institutions should be misbehaving now. Through these structural reforms, we need to restructure them, analyse them, and really try to fit into rationality and get them into the function that they must have, and not what we have now the agencies so let it work. But it doesn't mean that reducing the financial capacity is also the result of what is being achieved. Next, I don't see enough resources for the Service Act in the Armed Forces. There's 19 million, 29. One was to pass this law. We're going to face the fact... because we're not going to finance it. I don't see any additional sources for the list, for local elections, which must be over 5 million marks. Then, when it comes to the list, I also don't see it, except for 4 million, where the 30 million is. Now, I've looked at them... I don't see them there either, I don't see them in the years to come, and I don't see them at the entity. There's 30 million missing for the list. How are we gonna do that? In capital investments and in our joint co-financing with international institutions, I also don't see those positions that will limit us tomorrow. I must say that colleagues... the budget of institutions, the RS entity 200 million compared to 2008, almost 300 million increased, and the Federation about 200 million increased. That's exactly 500 million, how many deficits we have, and if they save and they go back to 2008, we don't need an arrangement with the IMF, we can have a very low deficit that Professor Domazet said, and it doesn't shrink by lending, by borrowing, but it's just shrinking by public spending.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10036	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10037	Here, just one more sentence. I think we've cut our salary once by 10%, this is the second time and it's not consistent with the pay cut, what you said is not, 300 is new employees. I don't see 75 by which method it was made and there's no indirect tax administration. Gentlemen, she's picking up money for us. She needs to have room for these 300 new employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10038	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10039	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the SDA is fully aware of the situation in which it has found itself, so as a political party that participates in the adoption of such an important document, I agree with those who speak of the importance of this document, express their dissension and make statements and thus will act and vote against this document if it remains this way. So we're fully aware of the situation we're in, the responsibilities, but let's just say, so far my colleagues have talked about the reasons, and I'll just try to figure out a few important things, so you judge. The key problem comes from a fiscal framework that has not been consulted by the SDA. So the information that I have, so we're not consulted when this fiscal framework was created and there's a key problem. So that's the moment where it all started out the way it shouldn't be when it comes to this budget. Last year for 2011, we received a budget from the Council of Ministers here, so we did not adopt it at 1,028.000,000. I checked it out, so last year in the sixth month, here's the minister at the time and our current colleague, so 1,028.000,000, and then the BiH presidency increased by about 17, 18, 20 million, and I don't know how many, and that's why it didn't go through, and otherwise, in this House, I would have received the 1,028,000 for 2011. Now we get a budget of 905,000, so that's about 78, 80 million, 70 million less than it was last year for the 2011 budget. The second thing is what happened later and how we ended up funding temporarily. So that's one fact that must be considered. So in 2011, the budget of 1,028.000,000, this year we go to 950,000, actually not 905,000. ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, I'm just saying, nothing foreign debt. So I'm just saying, one billion and three hundred and something is... I'm only talking about BiH institutions. So my figures speak only for BiH institutions, so 1,028.000,000. Now it's at 950,000 and the difference is about 78,000,000 marks. In last year's budget, therefore, there was certainly nothing related to the census, nothing related to the military pensions that were here this year 17, 18 million, there was no talk of a reduction, there was no, so all this, together with it, is between 170 and 200 million. And when you compare it now, it's almost 20% less than what we could have had. 76 On the other hand, it is said in the fiscal framework that income will grow, in 2012, it is 4.3%, in 2013 5.3%, in 2014 6.1%. So 4.3%, and the state is fixed both in 2012 and 2013 and in 2014 at 950 million, so there is no change. If it wanted to be consistent, then at least for, say, an increase of 5.3 in 2013, so that would be 50 million additional, then in 2014 60 million, and then the 2014 budget would have a box of 1,050,000, it would not have 950,000 as it is in 2012. So, people, these are all the problems that we've seen and for which there's no explanation, there's no explanation and that really represents a serious problem for us. We are aware that in BiH there are both entities and cantons and municipalities and everyone has to work. We know where the burden of social giving is. It is a very clear thing, but we know that this country should also go its own European, Euro-Atlantic, security route, that institutions should be strengthened and developed, not blocked, and then use it as an excuse later in the request to abolish those institutions. No, no BiH institutions will be abolished. BiH institutions must develop, they must grow stronger. And that's why this budget is a problem for us and we're asking you to understand this. We are, that's when it comes to this spending-side, why you stick your finger in the eye. Let's say, with this budget, the 7,200,000 of the funds, from the sale of a part of the barracks in Sarajevo that belongs, here is the agreement by the leader, Canton of Sarajevo. This is put in the budget item, in the budget revenue. You're pushing your finger around Sarajevo University. Why? Why does anyone need that? Is it 7,200,000 marks, so all that, it's sold and it's going to go into the budget, and when this deal is made on the distribution of assets that are under way, then what's in Banja Luka is going to be in Banja Luka, what's in Tuzla, this is the only one here that's going to go to the state budget. Let's make sure it's not a principle thing, so we can't build relations in BiH on that basis. So when all of this is added up, then I hope... that the reasons why the SDA has this position are clear to you. I'm past time, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10041	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10042	Thank you, Chairman. We have repeated these past few days, and here I want to say that we really respect the opposition's position in the BiH Parliament, above all, the leader of the opposition Alliance for a Better Future, then other parties that oppose the adoption of the budget. We, when we were in opposition, acted in a very similar way and tried to point out possible failures. They have no such obligation but no responsibility for the budget to be adopted, even in May. I say, at least in May because it's a legal obligation to do so much sooner. This budget isn't perfect, I said it earlier, it has its shortcomings, and each of us would have allocated this amount of funds, which is available, probably in a different way. However, like everything else in BiH, the budget is the subject of an agreement and it is clear to everyone, i.e. to correct myself, almost everyone. Budget box 950 million? Would you like it in the SDP if it was a bigger frame? Of course we'd love to. Is it realistic at this point that a consensus can be reached about it? Unfortunately, it's not. Have all parties participated in the agreement on the budgetary framework? Yes, even those who claim not to be, I could, but I was saying how to inform my colleagues, let's say from the government of the Federation, the ministers, in which way they opted out against this. Meanwhile, the office, one of the parties of the majority decided, at least as far as they were concerned, temporarily on this matter to be part of the opposition. What's going to happen and how it happens later, I don't think we should talk about it today. However, I am not sure that the principle of 'we are not together when the budget is adopted but we will spend it together' is something that is politically acceptable. But let's get back to this budget. Today, in order for someone not to get the wrong idea, we are not discussing whether we are for a bigger or smaller budget, today we are discussing whether BiH will have or will not have a budget. In the period since the Council of Ministers adopted the budget and to this day we have witnessed different interpretations and different objections to this budget, from those that the budget has not been agreed on, which again confirmed that not all have participated in the agreement, to the fact that the budget could even be used as a tool for postponing the elections. As far as we are concerned, the position of the SDP Club is that institutions, particularly newly-formed, will not be able to function without the adopted budget, i.e. on another year of temporary financing. And when we talk about delaying local elections, it is out of the question for us, and it is absolutely unacceptable and we believe that the budget, among other things, must be adopted. I also talked about the pensions of soldiers, lists, construction of border crossings, digitisation, credit rating, etc. So these are all the reasons why this budget should be adopted. In what form after the amendment phase, we'll see. We're convinced it's not an election year so we don't have this problem. And that's what I want to draw particular attention to, and in addition to these statements, even though the informal gathering of MPs who are against this budget, in a way that let's adopt the budget and move on, what we're doing has to be done. When I talk about wage cuts, the Council of Ministers unanimously adopted the conclusion that the lowest four categories of police, four lowest acts and two in the military remain out of the story of wage cuts, unanimously, and the resolution ministers are in charge of technical preparation of the solution, both from the same party, and you guess which, and of course they didn't. It will likely be one of the amendments that others who voted for it in the Council of Ministers will prepare for the next session. The story is that the adoption of a budget attack on the BiH state is groundless. I ask the question if this is an attack on BiH, then who is to be a failure to adopt the budget would be the defence of the state. I agree with Mr. Ljubić that there is room for savings in renting space and I think there is a general consensus and we have shown this by adopting a common conclusion in that direction. However, there are examples of state institutions being blackmailed by those renting space. You have, here's the director present, we've had an example of the Anti-Corruption Prevention Agency and the coordination of the fight against corruption that should be based in eastern Sarajevo where the commercial price is 15 to 17 marks, they're asked for 25 because they're a state institution. And people have trouble renting space. And finally, since time is running out, all I'm going to say is that in the material that we have ahead of us, so the Bill on Budget Institutions, we have one illogicality. Therefore, the members of the 3a are contradictory and Article 3 of this Act. Article 3a says there will be no reception of new employees in the financial year 2012, while Article 3 is scheduled. And in the end, I will just say that the adoption of the budget is a test of political principle and that it may be good for the Council of Ministers to clear up internal relations at the very beginning of its work, because without it it it will be even harder to run the state at this turbulent time. Thank you. 78
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10043	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10044	Well, here I believe that my colleague Magazinović and I certainly don't have a different opinion when it comes to the strong state of BiH, but here today I have a need for maybe a few things just to replicate in terms of some clarification that we in the SDA had doubts about, we had a dilemma that it was some kind of uncipic and secret agreement when it comes to this document that we have here today. And this agreement on the adoption of the document, the Global Fiscal Balance Framework, is about to confirm that these doubts were justified. You see, the globan Framework that we have here in front of us, I have also tried to find this 2008 law, the Law on the Fiscal Council of BiH, which is actually the basis for the adoption of this Global Framework Agreement, so it is not done in accordance with this fundamental law, i.e. By law on the Fiscal Council, since the fiscal council law clearly states that it is adopted in three years and that it is revised every year. This document, which we have before us, thus fixes 950m marks on an annual basis and freezes the level of the BiH state at that level over the next three years. Article 7. The Fiscal Council Act says they'll... The Council of Ministers and entity governments, hence the entities of the RS and the Federation of BiH, in accordance with this agreement, adopt a global framework which, in fact, in accordance with the agreement on the adoption of the global framework, adopt its documents, therefore, adopt its budgets. Article 12 speaks: unless an agreement has been reached on the Fiscal Council... on budgeting that the Council of Ministers and entity governments undertake to propose a decision on temporary financing at all levels. So, there is nothing questionable about us having to bear a common burden ahead of us, having a crisis, having to deal with it responsibly, but the way in which we will politically view the situation so that we can block every story at the state level until we can resolve some relations at the level of the entity, and then after that we blackmail the BiH state on its European path, at the same time we swear to some European commitment, and in fact we do not show it through the draft budget, that's something that we need to clearly say here today, we need to clearly define it. So unless an agreement is reached by the expiry of the Interim Financing Decision, then the Council of Ministers, the government of the Federation of BiH and RS is obliged to propose a budget framework from the previous year. So, do we in the Federation of BiH and RS have the same budget framework as we had in 2011? So we don't. First, we took some funds to say afterwards that we should save and that, in fact, this kind of, to call it, the key savings will take place at the level of the BiH state. It's a political principle, it's a political decision and a political reason why the U.S.A. has this kind of relationship against this document, and I believe that in that sense the public will understand me and all those who have a well-intentioned, honest and principled relationship against everything we do here. This document The Fiscal Council Act even proposed sanctions for those who do not respect one of these basic acts of our country so that even there we have mechanisms to force everyone to do their job and to do it in time. If we'd done it right, we wouldn't have come to this position we're in today. Thank you very much. 79
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10045	Thank you. Dear colleague Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10046	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and fellow MPs, ladies and gentlemen, I fully support the Fiscal Council when it says that 950 million KM we have expenses and no more. So, gentlemen, the situation in our society is that public sector employment is growing slightly, and in the real sector, unfortunately, it is falling. So we still need to cut our costs, and move and give oxygen to those who work to get all of us out together. If we don't, we'll all go together, we won't be anything but a servant and a poor girl, we won't be anything. Therefore, as far as the expenditure side is concerned, that, gentlemen here who have their ministers in the Council of Ministers, you will spend it and agree on how you will spend it, that's your thing, there is a parliamentary majority that has chosen ministers, there is one that will allocate that cost, which will spend it, and that's fine. And what about our policy here in Parliament and the Council of Ministers, especially when it comes to economic policy to fix this situation, to bring the real sector to life, to start employment, to start a new value... what was here, so unfortunately in the income projections here... and what we got in this we don't see that the state will do anything to create the environment, because we see that VAT revenue will almost not increase, excise revenues are also coming from customs due to the Stabilisation and Association Treaty will not grow, either. So that's what we here in Parliament, together with the Council of Ministers with economic policies, can increase or decrease, and it's the same for entities to do their part of the job. But we need to know very well here that the entities are the ones who are building the picture and we are the ones who are building the frame. The best painter without a clear frame picture cannot... So three key policies, fiscal policy, VAT we want to change or we don't want to, I don't agree with those policies as mentioned here. I don't agree with the policy that we don't have the same excise duty anymore, we can't have customs, I don't agree that we don't have tolls, but not in our costs, let this be fixed, but in the development projects that will raise the economy. And here we have a positive example of how it's done. Recently, we were at a conference of the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, a country that has a double-digit growth figure in the last 10 years is Turkey, and the finance minister was at the conference and the man briefly, in five sentences, said the formula. So it's one of the formulas, there's more of them just a matter of political will. And that's four brands, four stamps, 4.5 stamps, and they have a 50%, 60% car customs, so they've taxed the luxury, and these funds have clearly shown in education, increase the allocations from the education budget, infrastructure, investment in research and development, encourage companies, reduce corruption, but not by reducing corruption by chasing fairies, but by informing society, gentlemen, they've said that. Corruption is reduced by informing society, not by chasing the fairies and witches, it will take us nowhere, and a public-private partnership. And so here's the time coming out, about the expenditure, that's what the gentlemen are going to agree on, I'm telling them how to increase revenues, the revenue side, and to boost the real sector and employment. Thank you very much. 80
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10047	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10048	Thank you, Chairman. After all these discussions, there is a question of what to say, what message to send. Here, for starters, is a prophecy that says: based on an analysis of macroeconomic developments in BiH in the previous period, as well as a harmonisation of the impacts of key internal and external factors that depend on development, the real GDP growth rate in 2012 is expected to be 2.09% and 4,04% respectively in 2013. And 4.76 in 2014. The key growth factors in 2012-2014 will be to increase private consumption, exports and investment growth. Exports will grow at an average rate of 9.07% in the coming period, while imports will rise by 9.03%. And the author of this is not a psychic Džemila but can read this in a document called the Global Framework of Fiscal Balance and Policy in BiH in 2012-2014. If we have such assessments and we have in mind the situation in which BiH is located as well as if we have in mind the state of government in BiH and which works this way at the state level, in a way that when the key decisions of a particular political party are needed to wash their hands and when it comes to sharing chairs and functions, then they are very interested in it – the responsibility for this situation is therefore on all parties representing the rule in BiH at the level of BiH and no one has the right to amnesty. Amnesty is not entitled to those who seek an unwarranted increase in expenditure in the 2012 budget. First of all, therefore, the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers of BiH, which envisions an increase of 44%, then the Ministry of Communications and Transport, 64%, Ministry of Finance and Treasury 47, if I have seen well, etc., etc. So in this situation where we are almost half a year old and when we adopt the budget, this behavior and this kind of waste simply doesn't have its justification. First of all, because we have open many questions like the problem with soldiers who have expired the Labour Treaty, who have recently been protested, and have been threatened from being deprived of their rights, and then they retreated. I don't know if that's how they retreated under other circumstances. So, when we are faced with state administration strikes, when we have a situation that BiH is seriously at risk of credit ratings and about BiH's reputation in international frameworks I think that less and less can be said, in such circumstances we adopt this budget. We need to adopt it, but I think the debate on this budget should have been more thorough and it should have been wider and more open and everyone interested in it heard. And a few more notes about what the finance minister said in the introduction that announced certain moves, etc. All these moves are just makeup and they need to distract the public from the real problem in BiH, there is nothing in savings: a budget of 950 million KM provides for 650 million just for three items – gross payments and fees, employee costs and travel expenses. That's the budget. Therefore, it is also evident that there is nothing from savings and non-employment because it is not planned to have employees' growth at the end of 2012. So we won't have 22.384 employees and this is not an increase compared to 2011, to 31.12.2011 by 284 and is also not an increase compared to 30.6.2011 by 875 newly employed, so new employment will not be and everything will be as great and wonderful as from that quote at the beginning. Thank you very much. 81
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10049	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the ninth item of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina You got the report. The college as a commission has failed to achieve consent. We are pleading in the second round on the Opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission on the Bill's Proposal. This, in practice so far, is not a debate. We're going to point 10. Ad. Ten. Report by the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament Dušanka Majkić on the debate on the proposal for a customs tariff law
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10055	Thank you. In its Annual Report, the Central Bank members of the Standing Committee estimate that the biggest risks in BiH are poor economic activity in the country, poor growth estimates for next year, and poor political climate in the country are caused to the greatest extent by failing to adopt the budget framework and by unforming the Council of Ministers. We've formed the Council of Ministers, and here's the budgetary framework, so it's up to us to step up weak economic activity. Key policies, four key economic policies – fiscal, monetary, foreign trade, income and contribution policy – therefore, one of these is the monetary one in the hands of the Central Bank and is run by the Central Bank of BiH. Although we have the Currency Committee and our currency is practically tightly tied to the euro, so we have a conversion mark, the Central Bank's task and its basic job is practically currency conversion and it stores reserves through the Federation and RS banking agencies in some way controls the banking system. The currency purchase fee, with the finding that economic activity is weak, the currency fee was 0.20 and the Central Bank increased to 0.25. So, what short and we do it... Someone's gonna pay for it again. And who else but the economy! One segment I would like to draw attention to is a decision on minimum standards for the risk management of bank liquidity. So, it's the decision of the Banking Agency of the RS and the Federation of BiH, which are in line, and there's a narrow framework and there's firm conditions for banks, and there's almost a billion and more to be freed from banks if this decision is amended, 83 or if we adapt... what environment has the conditions in these liquidity risk rules. And I therefore propose the conclusion: 'To oblige the Central Bank of BiH to, together with the Banking Agency of the Federation and the RS, initiate an amendment to the Decision on minimum standards for managing the liquidity risk of banks, and Article 6, in the direction of compliance with our environment that has more lax conditions." I'll deliver this conclusion. And, therefore, let's try to help our economy like we just said there was a major problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10056	Thank you. I think it would be appropriate to suggest that the 14th Point Financial Report of the Central Bank be combined with this point 13. Ad. 14. Financial Report of the Central Bank of Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011 If Jerko, i.e., Mr Lijanović has a discussion and you can freely discuss this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10058	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10059	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10060	I bear in mind that we are discussing both points of the agenda and I regret that such important reports and these next ones that will come at today's session are for the simple reason that we have exhausted ourselves, so to speak, both about the budget and everything else, so that time is not very happy for some debate on these very important documents. And I'll just say a few sentences that with a trail of unanimity and consensus on the committee, etc. I also support the work of the Central Bank, and I express my desire to continue, because as we receive some year's reports, let's say this year, this is a very important document that does not only talk about the work of the Central Bank but gives us a number of very important economic data that can be useful in creating various policies, etc. I can only express regret and hope that the new composition of the Council of Ministers will restart the initiative to eventually provide the supervision of banks at the level of the BiH state, because we also have a regulatory framework and we also have an institution capable of providing the state securities emissions for which we also have a regulatory framework. 84 So, ending this debate, once again supporting, and I want to point out that let's say the Central Bank's Administrative Council is an example of how boards, boards, etc. should be built, because we have a concentration of very professional people, people from professions that are quite politically unrecognizable. And... that choice is the result of the good work of the Central Bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10061	Here, you gave me the clagworth that Mr. Željko Šain, a member of the Central Bank Management Board, says hello, he's here. There are no more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate for both the 13th and the 14th agenda. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Report on the work of the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity for 2011 In accordance with Article 4.10. The law on transmission, regulator and operator of the electricity system in BiH, the State Regulatory Commission for Electricity submitted its Report 6.4. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion on 17.4. and unanimously adopted the Report. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear colleague Nermin Purić. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10064	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, first few findings. The report was delivered in April 2012, and by law it was due by 31.12.2011, so the question Is there any particular reason or is it simply a technical problem? As far as the questions are concerned, I don't insist we get answers today. The second question (I have already spoken with the individual present from the Derk) is 85 The 2012 financial plan must be delivered to Parliament by the end of 2012, it does not say adoption, but must be delivered to Parliament. And I received information that the same material was delivered to Parliament within the deadline, so in the 12th month, the question is where is this document. First, I apologize to my colleagues from the Commission for not being present, because I was officially absent, (?) No microphone turned on Well, that's exactly what I'm saying, because I was officially absent so I didn't ask these questions on the Commission. But just to distract you... attention. BiH is not specific about the fact that it has 51% of GDP in the public sector of BiH, it is specific that it also has an enormously high percentage of the individualisation, or energy costs compared to the GDP. Here, little test, if you can even imagine what your expenses are, right? They're over 20% of GDP. So in the energy sector we're talking 5 to 6 billion marks. In the electricity sector we are talking about a slightly smaller amount, some 7.5% of GDP. So, the institution whose report we are analysing today is a very important regulatory agency, it generally regulates a sector that has twice the amount of funds in it that we are looking at than the budget that we've spent a lot of hours talking about here. Among other things, Derk is in charge... of coordinating the approval of investment plans of the transmission company Elektrotronos BiH, which has not adopted investment plans since its establishment, and therefore currently, according to information I have, it has some 250m marks. Here's to add, I'm not sure they're still but they've been unarmed for a long time. That's very modest in the report mentioned. I think we need to get that information from Derk, which, as far as the sector is concerned, is much more decadent. It was also said in one place in the Report that decisions taken unanimously in the Derk that the members present, who make the decisions, could not agree on the tariff for the same company, so for "Eptrotrenos BiH", and that the tariff remained at the level of 2010. That tariff is 120 and a few million marks. So I'm also talking about the figures that are impressive "Electronos" basically have a tariff that is about 4.5 to 5% of electricity or the value of electricity on the voltage at the transmission level. You know what happens when the electricity price rises by 2.3% in this country, right? My point is I think it would be good to get an explanation of what happened in the meantime and why it wasn't brought when it was planned to be brought. And finally another question, I would really like to ask that, in the reports under the point of the Electricity Market in BiH, we get information that is not accounting but that we also get information about the state of market development, or the development of the market. Last year, when the Derk Report was on the subject, we had an opportunity to get information that there was a problem with the opening of the wholesale market, that there was a problem with the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Derk. Respecting that the Ministry is probably in charge of the Action Plan I suppose it would be good if we had received a little bit more information in the report, not about why what we have signed and what our international obligations are but above all about whether there are any indications that 86 we will launch in this sector processes that will lead to the fulfillment of the obligations we have voluntarily signed. And finally, to be solid with my colleagues from the Commission, all I've said is to draw attention to the importance of this topic. I will not be against a decision that the Commission unanimously... (?) No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10067	Okay. This conversation didn't affect the session. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10068	I'd just like to take advantage of it, given that... on page 11. within point 3.4, there's a little hint that talks about monitoring the activity of... the subjects. In particular, there are problems in the work of Elektroprenos. I don't think Parliament should go through with it. This information that more than 200 million stands for several years speaks about the only joint venture and we see what is the relationship in the only joint venture that practically doesn't work. So in the media there was information that the meeting of the Assembly of Shareholders, so two prime ministers held a joint session somewhere in February of the month, where they agreed on what to do next. On that occasion, it was agreed, that is, that the Management Board is tasked with launching competitions for new members, resolving existing administrations and forming two expert groups. One to solve question 110 kW of trafo cells, and the other to solve the issue of an independent operator. I'm asking you, I mean these are very important questions, I don't know what this institution is going to do to us if it's, like, an institution that's been inconclusive for 200 million years. And nobody wonders why that is. We're all nodding to keep it from working. Parliament has done nothing on this subject. If, in the end, we had made each of us on our own within the political parties to discuss the subject, we might have done more. So, I ask the members of the Derk to at least give short information: whether there is any certainty that what has been agreed at the last meeting of shareholders is soon to be realised and to live in practice.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10069	Thank you. 87 So, by rapidly adding 5% interest to a bank share of 250 million, that's in two years 25 million revenue. But here we have Mirsad Salkić, Nikola Pejić and Mr Milorad Tuševljak, members of the Commission. Do you need to comment and answer? Dear Mr Nikola Pejić, who is currently serving as chairman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10070	Dear Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, I will try briefly to pass through the set of these questions, although the point is to say about our report rather than the problem that is evident and which we often stress in our report. When it comes to delivering our report, it's 31.12, it's true, it's a legal obligation, but it's practically technically impossible to have all the data from 31.12.200 and, respecting regulatory practice from the environment, we're practically one of the countries that far before other countries in the environment end their report, so it's somewhere already February, March. The financial plan was delivered on 31.10, so before the deadline, because I think it's 1.12, since we determine our regulatory decision in accordance with our current practice in September and that gives us enough space to complete our regulatory plan. And one finding, given these discussions today, our financial plan in the last three years, since we have followed the Law on Salary in State Institutions, has been restrictive in a certain sense. When it comes to transmission work, we have pointed out in our last three reports. We have constant contacts with the Ministry, we give information to both Parliament and these owners. It is true that the unarmed funds in cca 250 to 280 million, and we don't have any, we were the last time in a meeting with the Management Board of Elektrotronasa, we have no information on whether these funds are armed. I'll just have a little more information: total income, Mr. Kušljugić said a fixed, justified, required income is 127 million. Based on the tariff, it's 104 million, which means this 23 million in this tariff procedure that we didn't adopt last year, but we adopted it in late April, so a new tariff was adopted, it's included in income, this 23 million we went at a minimum rate of 3%, so we didn't have. That way we've given enough signals and enough suggestions and those who decide and we don't think it's... to include it. When it comes to this new tariff, I said, so it was brought in late April. We have practically respected a methodology that is in line with EU directives that discusses the absence of so-called "no". a taxi, i.e. an export tax on energy exports. Why wasn't she, I wouldn't be calling it a problem right now, decisions are made by consensus. Since this period of alignment my view was that she should practically be brought in by the adopted methodology, but we did not simply bring in, there was no consensus. I don't see any... It's short, let's say, summary. If you think there's anything further to be explained, one of your colleagues can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10071	Thank you. No more reports. I'm concluding... 88
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10072	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10073	Of course, I thought this was a consistent attitude. Sure, go ahead. Mr Salkić, a member of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10074	I apologize to the esteemed assembly, but it's nothing in control of the chairman, it's just a small addition. There were a lot of questions and quite a wide range of these questions. I'm not going to say what Nikola has already said, but for information on market control and control of the electricity sector at this point, although it is already moving towards the control of the energy sector, with the state commission not yet getting that information. Besides the State Commission, there are two other entity regulatory committees responsible for certain activities. So, Derk is in charge of international trade and of transmission operations, including the transmission company and system operators. Participation is approximately 6.7% of the electricity market. Furthermore, when we talk about opening the market, the problems of opening the market are evident and these are the largest in the case of the retail market, which is the jurisdiction of the two entity commissions. What is in our domain can be said, i.e. in divided between the three commissions – it is the issue of the wholesale market. It is open, but it is not regulated and we as the State Regulatory Commission have already made proposals on several occasions, although we are not the ones who bring these acts, to the competent ministry to do something to make that part of the market, that segment of the market regulates. Furthermore, the issue of the company's functioning. For five years now, we have been warning the competent authorities of the problems that are present. The fact that in this year... certain questions have been raised, that the Assembly of Shareholders has been held, but I must say honestly that there is still no, I apologize for a little bit of a cold, yet there is no indication that there is a shift in the resolution of these problems. We as the State Regulatory Commission have done everything possible to resolve this part of the issue, we have warned the competent authorities when it comes to funding, when it comes to investment, but we as a commission are not in charge of management and management of this company. What's in our jurisdiction is done as much as we can. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10075	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 16th point of the agenda: 89 Ad. 16. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina in criminal proceedings, the foreign courts provided for by the Criminal Act of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court, in accordance with Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period from 14.9.2010 to 31.12.2011. On the basis of Article 48 (9) of the BiH Law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, detentions and other measures and Article 2(6) of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Independent Commission, the Independent Commission submitted a report on 12.4.2012. The Joint Commission for Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics delivered its opinion on 9.5.2012. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10077	Ma, I have one proposal, given that this report in itself, whether consciously or unconsciously, even though it is mentioned on page 7 and 19 that there is a separate opinion of the second deputy, Mr Predrag Crnogorac, and a member of Milana Škipina on the performance of a group of prisoners from the KP Institute of Foč, I think we should wait for their separate opinion and, together with that, consider the full report. I don't think it makes any sense that we're discussing the report now, and that next time we go back to a separate opinion. So I think it would be correct to put it to the vote, so at the next session, I have prepared a conclusion that within five days they deliver it and that at the next session we are discussing both.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10078	Is there anyone to comment on this motion to postpone the debate? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] If we discuss... then it's no matter how much further, then, we end the debate on the report. So we have a proposal to postpone the debate on the report, so if this is adopted then we'll definitely discuss the report when this is done; if it doesn't get adopted, we'll continue the report story. So please... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10083	Thank you, Chairman. Indeed, therefore, we received a large report, a little when the Ombudsman delivered a large report on 137 pages and 16 chapters, which would have been said, it should have been written, not only to do so. So I am really impressed that during 2011, this institution made almost 7,000 contacts with citizens, that it received 3,607 complaints and 1,683 were transferred from previous years, making up a total of 4,753 cases. So, really impressive. The report says that the largest increase in the case refers to the previous year in 2010 and is recorded in the Department of Elimination of all forms of discrimination, which seems to me to be around 40% and the Department for the Monitoring of Real Prisoners, or prisoners close to 20%. But let me focus on Chapter IX. Inmates' rights follow-up department. During 2011, the BiH Ombudsman institution received 121 complaints from persons deprived of liberty, of which more than half, means that about 60 complaints concern dissatisfaction with the conditions of accommodation, the treatment of convicted paintings, or some type of abuse or incorrect 91 behaviour of staff, and violence against other prisoners; 32 complaints referred to the issue of denying the use of out-of-conductive benefits and visits of family members and 20 complaints related to health care and hygiene conditions. At the 81st stop, the report says: 'It is not surprising that the most received complaints come from the KPZ Zenica, because there are 800 prisoners in it.' So I don't believe that the largest number comes because there are 800 prisoners but probably because the conditions are worse than in other penitentiary institutions. The Ombudsman received complaints from several convicts about the daily provocations of educators who are the main drivers of insult and demeaning, as well as asking for money from convicts. I would like to comment on this team before... that I am the applicant of an initiative, and it was planned to visit by the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics to make visits to Serb convicts who support the punishment of the KPZ Zenica, because there were also media tips, i.e. information that a group of Serb convicts are giving a dramatic appeal to protect, constant harassment and beating, but that some have been brutally beaten just because they belong to that national corps. So I've been trying to make it happen with the Joint Commission, and obviously there was no readiness from individual members of the Joint Commission for that sort of thing. Then I also received a response from the Federation's Justice Ministry saying that a review in KPZ Zenica was carried out to investigate cases of human rights violations and found that two Serbian Nationality convicts were physically attacked. And it is certain that a small number of Serb convicts suffer verbal insults motivated by the consequences of war events and related to national impatience. I then wonder why there was nothing done to change things here, because your report said that the Ombudsman examined the case of a group of Serb national convicts complaining of discrimination on a national basis, and of physical, verbal and other abuse, but that the recommendations he gave to the director of this office had been deafened. So, in the meantime, I still get permanent, permanent letters and convicts. So it's not a job that I'm supposed to be doing as an MP, it's supposed to be working on an ombudsmen, he needs to look into what's really going on at KPZ Zenica. And in that sense, I think we should do everything possible to get the director to follow those recommendations that the Ombudsman made. In this regard, you have left the deadline of 30 days, but you have not been informed of any measures to implement the recommendation, and I insist that you be informed, and in this sense I propose one conclusion which says: "The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires the Human Rights Institution to continue to insist on the recommendations issued to the Director of the KPZ Zenica, and that the results of meeting these recommendations inform the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH no later than 30.9.2012." So, please, in your next report, I don't expect you to say that you gave, I know your mechanisms aren't great, but to get an answer according to your recommendations and I expect you to endure. So I think, with this recommendation, that by the end of the ninth month, we really find out what's going on individually that might allow me to raise and vote for this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10084	Thank you. The following came to the debate by distinguished representative Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go. 92
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10085	Thank you, Chairman. I'll try to shorten what I meant to say. I have to start by saying that we can't vote for this report. In addition to what Mrs. Majkić was saying about the situation in prisons, it is enough to compare this report here that we received with reports, let's say, the public defender, I think that the Ombudsman is called in Croatia, and the public defender in Serbia, where each area gives a clear overview of the situation in society and the system's reaction to negative phenomena, recommendations are made, concrete amendments and additions to the law are proposed, we do not have it here. Let's also say in this chapter concerning the rights of prisoners, an independent body that has been spotted during a visit to Foča prison by a very good discrimination against prisoners on the grounds that some are discriminated against and away from the place of residence of their family, this is not what our Ombudsmans find in this. Also, under the laws on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and sublegal acts are in entities and at BiH level inconsistencies, and I must say that most often they are not respected. The law on the execution of criminal sanctions on BiH is not respected for the convicts of the BiH Court of Justice but is applied entityally to those who are more unfavourable for them. Furthermore, what is noticeable is that the number of complaints from citizens in the last year is about 200 lower, and here are the comparisons for the Ombudsman for the children of the Federation and the RS each year receive about 10,000 complaints together. I'm going to look back here at a chapter that's particularly interesting to me, and that's the chapter on children's rights. In Chapter X, this is the chapter, the Ombudsman states: 'With certainty, a permanent gap can be established between legislation and its application', which is true, and then they make a recommendation that deepens that gap. I wonder if we need normative acts that are inconclusive, which we cannot implement or should work to improve the conditions. Thus, the ombudsmen made a recommendation requiring the competent educational authorities of the RS to take action to comply with the Law on Pre-school Education and Education with the BiH Framework Law, especially in the section pre-school education for children a year before school is required. Similar recommendations were made for three cantons in the Federation. A Slovenian member of the EU does not have compulsory pre-school education, Croatia is now considering the issue, but their Ombudsman has made it clear: first we must do an analysis of whether we have personnel, financial, institutional capacity to do so. With us, something like this was passed through the Framework Law without any analysis, something that is inconclusive. So what do we do now? We come into a position, you have two children in a village that are impossible to organize or we have to lead teachers there, it is impossible to organise preschool education, and then a parent can finely sue the BiH state for not providing their child with compulsory preschool education. Furthermore, I can't believe that newspaper texts are full of violence against children, violence that even happens in homes, that it doesn't matter here. I also pomenuće that last time I criticised the Report of Discrimination that it did not refer to the project of two schools under one roof, which are also in the reports of the UN Committee and the Council of Europe, and I welcome the Court's decision in Mostar, which has ordered that two schools under one roof be shut down from the next school year. Furthermore, I must say, again in this section concerning children, it is said that on the basis of the 2010 Special Report, in 2011, it was recommended to the competent authorities in BiH regarding the establishment of daily and reception centres for children and youth found in begging. We don't know much about it anymore, we don't know, so we don't know what the problem is, but when you go to the Ombudsman's site then you see there, there's this special report that says the research was conducted in four BiH cities: Sarajevo, Mostar, Banja Luka and Brcko. 93 And then the Ombudsmans made a recommendation on the opening of five reception centres in RS – Banja Luka, Prijedor, Doboj, Gradiška and Bijeljina – and four in the Federation – Sarejevo, Mostar, Tuzla, Zenica, and one in Brcko, acknowledging that in these municipalities everyone in whom they ordered the opening of these reception centres did not carry out an analysis. However, one day in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a report was adopted unanimously by the Ombudsman for children of the RS who collected information on the begging of children from centres for social work in all municipalities of the RS and the RS MUP and was found to have registered around 130 children found in the RS. The Federation data, researching their ombudsmans for children, says that about 1,000 children have been registered. So one of the projects based on some of the flat-rates was imposed here. Furthermore, in the Commission's session, I said that the Ombudsman himself was inadmissible – I don't know if they fixed it in the meantime, because I didn't look at it – they violated children's rights. Namely, in one recommendation here, it means up to two days on their site, which referred to a divorce case, the full name and last name of a 2 - year - old child. And then the press, I saw it a year and a half ago, the journalists asked the Ombudsmans why they didn't put it away, they said we'd get rid of it. So they didn't remove it, so I thought maybe they didn't have personnel capacity, maybe they don't have anyone who knows how to handle the site, but then when you go to their site, you'll see that from 57 people who are employed, 32 are administrative workers. And the Ombudsman of Croatia has 34 employees. Of those 32 that are administrative workers you have the head of the Information Technology Department, you have a reference for information technologies, and then the Ombudsmans send us a memo to Parliament where they say they can't make a version in Serbian and Croatian because they don't have professionals because they don't have financial resources. I'm asking why these people are getting paid, what are they doing? And besides, we also have four references to receive mail and not to talk about what's not there, the head of the sector, four references to administrative and technical affairs, four references to reception and mailing, an expert associate for general affairs, and I'd be interested in how many drivers, secretaries and everything else. I mean, the ombudsmen justify that they've inherited it from the old ones, but they're the ones who pass the Labour Systemation Regulation, and I don't see that there was any reason not to streamline an employee administration. And I must say that what irritated me in this report, as someone who follows the daily press, is the Ombudsman's appeal to be left by assistants because they move to the jobs of district and cantonal courts who are much better paid. I ask why such high criteria were set, couldn't we set higher criteria? And recently, here's what I read from the media, one of the assistant ombudsmen was called a contest, so the man was only a little accepted temporarily until he was laid down, the condition was passed a judicial exam, while it wasn't, and again it was about someone's child, until he met the conditions that he could move to the county court. So the criteria need to be reduced and there won't be any problem with that. Furthermore, a large number, here in this report we see that the majority of citizens' complaints refer to the slowness of the courts, which is why, for example, those who have been injured by labour rights are left without effective protection. The fact is that this report indicates a violation of labour rights, but it is not clear why the Ombudsmans do not refer to the Agency for the Peaceful Resolution of Work Disputes established by the RS. Still... the report also mentions a very gross violation of pension and disability insurance rights and states that 189 complaints were received in 2011. I don't know what's going on here with rights, injured rights of 25,000 pensioners from the RS. I know that the situation here will not change in this institution, I know that there are certain political will behind the Ombudsman, but I think that the purpose of any institution here should not be that it exists for itself and for the employment of party personnel. I think that the Ombudsmans need to take the job of 94 more seriously for whom they receive salaries and see, if nothing, their colleagues from the region to the ombudsmans of Serbia and the ombudsman of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10086	Thank you. The next one for the debate is the esteemed representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10087	So unlike my colleague Pandurević, I will absolutely support this report and will not repeat myself in the discussion of what I was saying when we discussed discrimination at one of the previous sessions, i.e. human rights violations, etc. Unfortunately, then the proposals for conclusions that I have proposed of course did not receive support. I do not understand the Ombudsman institution as the only person responsible for the overall human rights situation in one country and also in BiH, but simply as one part, one segment of the entire system that, if synchronised and successfully functioning, can obtain results. So what Miss Pandurević was saying was that the only ones who did this were the ombudsmans, that they were legally authorized to do this, that the law was authorized to do that, that they were capacitated, etc., etc. Of course, I'm not an ombudsmen's lawyer, but I simply remind myself that they're part of a single system that we should have rounded up which, so to say, synchronised, here's what we do about these conditions in the institutions, we have prisons; we have formed an Independent Commission, we have a number of other committees that, say, deal with the same things. The question is how much we do it, and the competent ministries, to coordinate and in some ways give support and work to these institutions. Here, today at today's session, the Ombudsman Institution has been financially reduced in relation to some other institutions, etc. So it's a clear message of what we think. But here's the thing, I don't take the time to figure out that we should really try not to put all this important reports in one session together with the budget, with this, with that, and then we do it quickly. So, I support absolutely that report. Here, let's say, I support the opinion of the committee responsible, who with seven votes of 'yes' and with only one'maintained' supported this report and now I hear from the President of the Commission of Trees and Stones on this institution. And, so, the commission says seven "for," one "sustained," but come on. And I, for this debate, also reading this, this chapter on the conditions of accommodation, suggest the conclusion to support the efforts of the Ombudsman institution, because I have seen that they are making efforts to solve the problem of permanent accommodation, and to invite other levels of government to... engage in this problem, or help, as well as any donors, so that the Assembly, or the House of Representatives, is behind these efforts where people are self-initiatingly trying to find a way for their accommodation. Of course, I absolutely believe that the Ombudsman institution is also ready to discuss some regulations. I also talked about how effective all these recommendations, the force of these recommendations, what happens, how people do it, don't execute it, etc. But here, in any case, I conclude the debate with the re-support of the work of this institution that is very important to me for this country. And 95 I mean, I absolutely don't recognize there, unlike Mrs. Pandurević, people who are tied to some political parties.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10088	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović, a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10089	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss the report on the state of human rights in BiH submitted by the Ombudsman institution, I think we need first of all to know what is the position of the Ombudsman institution in the overall Bosnian Herzegovina society and on this basis to develop a discussion here. I get the feeling that sometimes things get messed up, and then from people who have a report on different levels, there are demands for the Ombudsman institution, orders from the Ombudsman Institution. Reports are not submitted that one who discusses the state of human rights report would issue orders to the Ombudsmans, but rather do his job to remove human rights violations that exist in BiH, any level of government that is, depending on jurisdiction, from level to level of government in BiH. If the Ombudsman institution submitted the report and pointed to human rights violations, it pointed to problems, it is its primary task. Then what we as a Parliament can do, therefore as a state parliament, is do that part of the work that is up to us in order to remove certain things that concern human rights violations. It should also be done by the entity level of government, cantonal level of government, municipally, so all possible institutions in BiH, not to question the Ombudsman and to issue orders, because it is contrary to the nature of the institution, the Ombudsman institution. The Ombudsmen is free in his work, he is required to fight uncompromisingly and to point to human rights violations and to point to institutions in which he acts on human rights violations. I understand this report first and foremost in this context and can only call on all BiH institutions as an agent to properly analyse this report, to get everyone to roll up their sleeves and try to do something or at least what is written in this report to bring human rights violations to BiH, at least to ease, if it is ideal for us to have a society that is without human rights violations completely. So in that context, I see the role of the Ombudsman and therefore I think that this report is well written, I support it, and I will, of course, support it, this report. I think that this team of ombudsmen, so we have three ombudsmen -- and we had a big debate here in Parliament a few years ago -- managed to put this institution in a position that the law predicted, and I want to encourage them and tell them to continue to work and position this institution. And if I wanted to ask, not a comment, but some suggestion that I would give to them here, I said it at the last session when we talked about this report about discrimination. I think even though the report says that you held press conferences, presented your reports, I think you should do it more often. I think the tools, you don't have mechanisms, you don't have sanctions in your hands, you're the ones who find, recommend and seek, and developed and democratically arranged societies react very quickly to injuries that have been sustained by the Ombudsman, with severe consequences for those who produce such injuries. With us, unfortunately, 96 is not the case yet. In a democratic society, this is a key mechanism, because it is unimaginable that the Ombudsman, for example, in Norway finds human rights violations in a particular institution, and that the head of that institution or whoever is responsible remains in that position, the whole society is shaking. We are not in that position here in BiH today. And the other tool that you have, so another possibility is that the BiH public understands what is going on in BiH, and that should be done from day to day. And I advise you to make your media appearances and presentations of your reports as often as possible, so that the public of BiH can get to know your reports in detail. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10090	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović, a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10091	Mr. Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, well, I would like to say, first of all, that I should like to express my respect for this report, which was delivered to Parliament's House of Representatives. I believe this is a very important report for respecting BiH's human rights, respecting the human rights of every BiH citizen, no matter where he is, and we legislators must be obliged to establish and, therefore, make a commitment to BiH authorities that they should respect the recommendations of the Ombudsman for human rights in BiH. So our findings that we are dissatisfied with the Ombudsman I can explain differently. In BiH, it is a catastrophic disrespect, not only a recommendation but also the views of competent institutions in any sense. I've been in different, even earlier, legislative institutions at a lower level, I'm telling the local one, when the Ombudsman recommends clearly, he finds that the law was broken, let's say, about local self-government or something and recommends that the local authorities do so, never did local government, including the local assembly. Is it the Ombudsman who told the truth or is it the local congregation? Is it the executive authority, is the institution of the education system, what the distinguished colleague Majkić was just saying, is it, say, this criminal-adjustment institute, a certain ministry and that? So the key question is are we ready to carry out these obligations? I, therefore, think that a mechanism should be created in this sense as possible to sanction these obligations, normally they cannot be sanctioned by a verbal stance on something, neither by the three human rights ombudsmans in BiH, nor by their offices, nor by institutions, but by the competent judicial institutions that must endure to this end. So I don't see any blame at all for any of the ombudsmen. Next, my opinion is that we should not be making verbal eccentrics that will attract public attention with frequent public appearances. I believe that they must have a high degree of dignity and professional work to deliver to the public, so in the light of their report and make it clear: we have given our report. I'm not sure that when we talk about how, first of all, the Ombudsman in BiH acts in accordance with the law, we advocate, I speak for the SNSD, so we have as much decentralised a role as possible in this regard, so from local communities, entities, cantons and the state of BiH. It is important that we have the Office of the Ombudsman for Children at the level of the RS entity, but we also care about the ombudsman of BiH, an extremely important institution. They work only in accordance with the law, and it would be a huge 97 mistake for them to break the law, for example, as ombudsmans of neighbouring countries. It's a completely different way to approach a problem compared to our concept in accordance with the law. And one more thing, I am convinced that the number of cases present in BiH, which are part of the recommendations of the Ombudsman, the BiH Ombudsman institution, are much greater than those of neighbouring countries, but you often know more about being a juggler than a pro. I'm against any Ombudsman being a politician, a juggler or a media star, just being a professional and doing his job. In this regard, I support this mode of action, while in charge of the competent institutions of government, or the institutions of the system of all levels in BiH, that they must respect the recommendations of such important institutions if we want to, in any sense, to be declared by some colleagues, to be a democratic society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10092	Thank you. The next is Commissioner Nermina Ćemalović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10093	Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, allow me to sign all of this Mr. Prodanović said and part of the discussion he took from me. Absolutely congratulations to the Ombudsman institution on such a detailed analysis, results. The number of complaints they have received is the state of our country, our society, the state of chaos and how human rights are violated. Let me just do some things to accentuate. In October 2008, BiH became the state signatories of the Operational Protocol for the Prevention of Tortrum. In accordance with this protocol, we have a duty, gentlemen, to develop a national preventive mechanism, perhaps that's what Mr. Lazar was saying in part. An Independent Commission was established in September 2010. Here's the part, that's where we skipped the point, but I'm absolutely going to get involved in the discussion, because on the Human Rights Commission, let's just kind of criticized the Independent Commission, while I gave all my thanks to the Ombudsman Institution just when it comes to prison accommodations, complaints that came from prisoners from criminal prisons. Because we see from the report that there were 121 complaints of prisoners, but just as many of these objects, i.e. the institution of the Ombudsman, or their representatives, have visited. And I see here that they were pleased with the reception of the directors of these institutions and there really is a lot of violations of human rights, but we'll talk about it when we get this information that Mrs. Majkić has, here she is, in fact, asking here for a conclusion to be delivered, according to recommendations, to the director of KPZ Zenica, to deliver data on human rights violations. But I think and I'm sure that there are the most human rights violations there, because we know that this unit has 800 detainees, 40 of whom are those convicted in the BiH Court of Justice, means the greatest crimes. Maybe the problem with all I'm saying is that we have more bodies dealing with the human rights situation in prisons. This includes the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Independent Commission, the Ombudsman institution itself, but I am absolutely going back to the data and the obligation that we should develop this national preventive mechanism. 98 Here's another thing I'm going to say about 110 complaints about endangering and violating the rights of the child, because we know that our child is what is our greatest wealth in our country and these violations refer to education, the right to health care, abandonment and neglect of the child, begging, etc. The institution has indicated here the conflict of interest of the centre for social work of both entities, and even the Ombudsman called on the Ministry of Civil Affairs to address the problem. So they work in that sense to keep making these recommendations, what Lazar says, now what their ability is and their strength of words it's actually here to us how much we're going to give them space and rights. I'm sure on the Human Rights Commission they pointed out the problems they have as an institution, which is space, finance, and then human rights are not strengthened, because we know that by abolishing institutions at entity level they've got employees, they really need a lot of professional staff, lawyers, etc. However, I hope we have a better time ahead. And here I am, gentlemen, congratulating here, and that is why I voted in favour of this report on the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10094	Thank you. Comrades and colleagues, considering the captain's and as many points as we still have until the end, please let us spend our time properly or I'll have to limit the discussion here at the other points. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10095	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, whatever report you receive, it is subject to criticism, there is little and praise, there is this one, but let's not be realistic, don't be disdainful, don't give Bog, the importance, the role and the work of the Ombudsman and the Report, but I always ask the question of what their mechanisms are like where they gave the recommendations and the one that isn't. So we have a hundred conclusions of this House of Parliament that are not respected and nothing to anyone. Well, I have a personal example. So, not me as an individual, but where I represented before the Constitutional Court in 2005; people, seven years passed, and the Constitutional Court made a decision in my favour, where I represented the case and for seven years was not respected by the Constitutional Court's decision and they accurately stated who should respect, in which way, which is a deadline and nothing. And now, for the entire state of human rights violations in this country, the Ombudsmans are guilty. Is he rich? If it were their fault, I'd join them and we'd settle it in 24 hours and respect all human rights. I respect the presentation of everyone, but when I hear the word of Norway, then I realize that we, not insulting any country, will immediately be told there, but here is a country that many do not know where it is,... nor the Ombudsman nor know what human rights are. Even such lands can compare with us, for so many human rights have been violated. Human rights Srbin tenant in Sarajevo? Well, guys, I get these complaints all the time, and here's no secret, no praise, after seven days I'm holding off phones. My wife can't even call me, so she thinks I've gone somewhere. This isn't a cartoon, people. This is the state of this country. There's no one who doesn't call and ask for help. The other thing, it won't, people, the ombudsman none of the media, it won't, he wants a statement from someone who's given a strong statement here tonight, who's going to wander, put the ground on their feet, make peace, but they're the most acceptable ones who hold tensions, so they say they can't function this one with this one, the one with the one, this one's against the one, the one, the one for anyone, in the end, no one, no one for nothing, no one for nothing. That's the kind of TV they want tonight, and the story of the Ombudsman: if we as a parliament had the money to rent 99 to host those three tonight, none of them would. Don't be mad, 'cause that's how it is. Because no one will listen to you first. First, he won't understand what you're going to talk about. And it's you who should be in my place or one of the politicians to say you're protecting these people's human rights. Well, then people don't know what they're going to do, because they can't see you, because these media won't, and then they're looking for me, and they're calling me to protect human rights, so my endangered rights against everyone. I'm sorry, my colleague Majkić won't be around, I didn't replicate today, but something goes into the stenogram, sometimes someone sees. Says my colleague, who I have great respect for, Parliamentarians drive cars 10 years old. Dear colleagues, that car is six days old or 16 years old, I don't drive and most of us here. It's got nothing to do with driving. I respect the Rules of Procedure, I respect the College, you should have good cars and drivers to worry about, respect the hierarchy, but people, my personal driver is Boško Tomić, my colleague, who took me in. And when it's not a session of Parliament, then I pay for the cab. So I don't care if the car's six days old or 16 years old. So, not to go like that, and that's human rights. Let's go back to the Ombudsman. Whatever you've written here, and I've been speaking to the Commission, I'm giving you support. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, normally, it doesn't fit anyone's discussion when I'm the last one, and now I'm gonna call first, so when you guys get in line, I'm gonna say three minutes, and, no, in four minutes and 12 seconds, I'm gonna interrupt the discussion. I know how to organize, I know what my capacities are, but half of them are for the ombudsmen, and whatever they write, no one will respect it at will. Here's an example of Zenica, they say we won't respect it, we just respect prisoners from the BiH Court, and these cantonal ones: you're not in charge, bye.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10097	Col. Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10098	Only a rich country can be a socially just state, gentlemen. And the best social policy is full-time employment policy. This is today what we say all the consequences, and we need to solve the causes of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10099	Thank you. Dear colleague Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, in the spirit of my sensitivity to the continued devastation of languages used in BiH, I suggest the suggestion of the Ombudsman institution that, in accordance with the good practices in 100 of some of the countries of the region, they make an effort and that in the wealth of language terminology that we use find a word that will determine your actions and, in this way, first make a step that is important to us who protect the language and the way we speak in this country, and secondly, to make it a little easier for all those who are in doubt when your name and the name of your institution is pronounced, and what you are actually doing, not knowing the origin and source where your institution's name came from. And the other thing, just, interestingly, is that we all point out in this way the importance of the Ombudsman institution, here I am using, hopefully for the last time with us this word and give them so much importance, and in today's budget proposal, is an item that reduces your budget by 10%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10101	There are no more applications for discussion. Moving to 18th point, Ad. 18. Information on the establishment of functions and structures of a decentralised management system (DIS) through the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) The Council of Ministers delivered the information in line with the conclusions adopted at the 8th session of the House of Representatives on the 2010 report on the work of the Council of Ministers. Who says the conclusions don't apply? The Joint Commission for European Integration has delivered its opinion 7.5. The Joint Commission proposes to adopt the following conclusions to the House: 1. Information on the establishment of functions and structures, showing present problems and delays in the process of setting up the DIS; 2. Continued delays and deadlines have prompted BiH from a leading position to come to the beginning of the countries of the region following progress in setting up the DIS; 3. All institutions involved in the process of setting up the DIS are required to continue to engage with the aim of establishing this system as quickly and efficiently as possible. I'm opening an information debate. Dear colleague Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10103	Thank you very much, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, regardless of what's late, which has been a lot of discussion on important topics, I think this is one of the most important topics, if not the most important topics we've set up, here, under point 18 and we've got the information and it's on the agenda, almost at the end of the session, if this is the end of 101 already, right? Therefore, we have been given the Commission for Euerobic Integration Information on the establishment of functions and structures of a decentralised management system through the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance. So I'm not going to mention programming and programming problems for pre-accession assistance... projects, but I'm just going to mention something very short and narrow, what's directly related to the Information. Namely, the information was sent to the parliamentary procedure on 14 December 2011. It was directed by the Council of Ministers in a previous meeting and this material has been wandering around for half a year. The question arises why he came in the first place after six months, whether he is current. We can see from the date that it is not current, but by what has not been done, that is, what is in the Information, we see that this is a very current problem and that it stands unresolved. In fact, the problem of establishing a decentralised management system with the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance or better said IPA Funds is something that is a commitment, which was verified by this Parliament in 2008, because BiH has concluded a framework agreement on co-operation rules for the implementation of IPA projects with the European Commission. Even in 2005, this system began to be built. I should like to note that all countries in the environment have actually implemented and established, those who have been on their way to European integration, established a decentralised system of management of IPA funds. Unfortunately, like everything else, we make a decision, but here we keep mentioning that we make decisions that we don't respect and then we still want to say that they don't exist and that they need to be changed and corrected, regardless of what has been done long ago. What's done doesn't work. Therefore, a state co-ordinator for IPU, i.e. DIPAK, accreditation officer, certification officer, Project Management, has been established, however, no mechanisms have been set up to do all this. Now, this particular DIS, I note that this is our obligation, our obligation from what is signed. We will all agree here that it is ours, and there is no one here who will say that BiH is not committed to European integration. However, the way they approach the fact that they have never really met those obligations that go towards what has been declared to be and done. Consequences? What are the consequences, and why is it important to mention this very late today, at the end of this session? It is important because failure to establish such a system actually costs BiH, the whole of BiH. If this system is not set up, it will be blocked, or no funds will be allocated to cca 200 million KM. Which is why we spent half the day talking about whether the state budget will increase slightly or not, and so lightly, because we are unable to do something administratively, we deny such funds that are actually grand funds and that serve to establish institutions that can lead BiH to Europe. Here, I urge, above all, the competent institutions in BiH to make sure that these mechanisms, what is written, which Parliament has adopted, are put into office. It would also be good for us to get this information infused very quickly, because I said I wouldn't talk about IPA funds, but programming and projects for IPA funds due to the lack of such a system are standing right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10104	Thank you. The next came a distinguished colleague, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 102
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10105	A few sentences just to say. I expected my colleague Nermin to say, as she began. It would be good if we didn't get this in front of us. So, I don't know if it's any more groundless what we got, because obviously someone got hold of some old material that says that Mr. Vrankić is still the finance minister, although I think it would be good if you asked him if it was still valid, because the material that was set before us to discuss it, it's said, it's obvious that the material that's been torn up from time to time. And what's even scarier, it doesn't answer a single question, it doesn't answer a single question, and it doesn't answer a single question at all what is the information about the establishment of functions and the structure of a decentralised management system (wow, it can't be said!). But what I'm saying is that the Joint Commission for European Integrations also went after bad material and made a bad report, so she tried to pull herself out, to conclude something, but she didn't have anything, so then except that information was received to know and this constant delay led to Bosnia coming from the top position to the start of the region in the progress of the establishment of the DIS. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, it is, but I think that's the conclusion for Parliament on a committee. And to engage all institutions in the process of establishment, the DIS requires further engagement with the goal of making this system as fast and efficient as possible. I'd make this conclusion if I didn't really know what it was about and what it was about. First, let me say about every... a few sentences. That this decentralised management system, I guess we need it to understand and learn, is a mechanism of co-ordination of all levels on the way to the EU. We can't ask anyone when we see how we're making a deal. There's no such thing as a coordination mechanism. The European Commission has pointed out on several occasions that in a complex constitutional structure, all BiH institutions have to deal with it in particular. And when we talk about our commitment to a European path, we talk only declaratively, and we do nothing to really be that way. I would remind you that here is the 2011 Progress Report in which the European Commission correctly cited it, and that is the very essence of all that we have talked about today: there is a common vision of political representatives on the general direction and future of the country and its institutional arrangement. There's no deal on anything. With no agreement, there are no institutional mechanisms to help BiH move faster. Since they are not there, the Council of Ministers obviously has nothing to write, and in accordance with this Directorate for Eurypical Integration, it is in a position to conclude something even though it is difficult and indeed in the circumstances of what they are. This is the point we should have talked about today. It's unfortunate that she came to the very end. And that represents approximately our relationship to the European pathway. When you ask any political party whether you are for the EU – I am. And that's how it all ends. Our way to it, what should we do, who should it be? All levels of government should be involved. For everyone to define deadlines and names who will finish that job. That's not what we're talking about. We don't have time for that, we don't have the patience. And we think of this as some flying material that needs to be passed. It would be good if someone, when they try a little more of the Council of Ministers, were to coordinate these mechanisms for coordinating all levels of government; the RS said if 70% of the European commitments are on me, I want to be involved, I want to know the exact coordination of how, 103 of what I am and what I am obliged to do, so the Federation doesn't mind, it is waiting for this job to end BiH, so we have one discrepancies and we're going to have real problems on the European path.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10107	Replica, dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10108	Just for a minute, Mr. Chairman. So, the aim of this document, and these discussions, and these conclusions, is to show that BiH has not established this function, this mechanism, and that the country that was once headed, given the countries of the region, has come to a start. This has its reasons and needs to be talked about in BiH – why BiH is now at the beginning of this matter, and not just this matter, it is. And that's why this conclusion was offered to this House here, because we're going to have to deal with these things. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10109	Let's move on. Replica, colleague Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10110	Thank you very much. Here, speaking of which, I didn't mean in these late hours, so look, at the Ministry of Finance when I was maybe a year ago it was posted, so when it came to the Council of Ministers, and the Council of Ministers wasn't put on the agenda, why not. During that period, I was a national coordinator for IPA, and we did make this mechanism complete within a short time, and we even got the commendation, I remember Mr. Mirel when he was there at that meeting, right, progress. And it took a few more decisions by the Council of Ministers to get this aggregate. The Ministry of Finance sector is running and running this DIS, a decentralised system, once it gets an aggregate from the European Commission, will literally move to an independent agency that will implement the funds in BiH, and now the European Commission is doing it in fact. When it comes to planning and selecting projects, this is now done by the Directorate for European Integration and together with a very high degree of decentralisation with users, entities, we are coming to the selection of projects. And we've quite mastered it. I don't think there's any more suspicion or misunderstandings standing around. Now we still have her in this system that we call DIS, so the decentralised management system, there are two remaining problems that have not been solved. And one is a revision that cannot be part of our current audit, but must be independent, independent, which will revise it, means one revision that is being established in this context. And there was the question of whether another state-level institution that would have to have all its elements of the budget user, because it is increasing the number of employees and, on the other hand, being asked to, when it comes to tender procedures, how it should be and whether it will be done in one place. We have the support of the European Commission that requires it to be in one place, that there will be least mistakes, that it will be easier to monitor and that there will be a system that will quickly be implemented. And I think that this recommendation to the Council of Ministers: let those decisions only that have been prepared now, changes to the names of people who have changed to be holders of individual functions and I think there will be huge progress with, I don't know, 10 minutes of work at the Council of Ministers. Thank you. 104
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10111	Thank you. Dear colleague Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10112	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, so here, I also have an obligation as a member of the Commission, the Vice-President of the Commission for European Integration, to say a few words. As for the information, first of all, this question, I don't think it should have been like this at the last points. I agree with my colleague Dušanka, this is a very important issue, the almost crucial issue of BiH's overall progress towards European integration. It's something we have to deal with in this country. On the other hand, I agree with my colleague Dušanka when she said the information was pale. The Commission reached one conclusion so relatively, so to speak. However, we all know that the Commission for European Integration has practically no, as I would say, commanding role, nor can it conclude in any other way, other than what it has concluded. The European Integration Commission is practically monitoring all these processes that are related to European integration and we can only suggest to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the Executive Authority for certain, as I say, actions. I am here to say that what Mr. Vrankić said, as far as the audit itself is concerned, the European Commission has made it clear that one new body will still have to be created... which will have to be independent for the revision of all these means of IPA components. On the other hand, I have to point out that it's really weird that, say, in all of BiH, nobody's worried that we're losing huge funds. First, we're losing the IPA component, so this IPA component II can also start to fail in advance, because there's just one lethargy in the country. No Niko alive is absolutely concerned that the money that comes from the European Commission that people warn us about, so they warn us there practically as a state and all the elements in the country -- people, come on, do what you do, what you stand for, you do nothing. I think we really have to all try to do this, because we have very tight deadlines. Here, I think it's until July 17th that we have to send them a report of what the European Commission has asked us to do. I would like to say, in this way, that the obligation of all of us, both political parties and MPs and all, here is the Commission for European Integration, that, as Mrs Dušanka said, in a way, we are much more responsible to make this work as soon as possible, because otherwise, we are losing living money. And it's really, I mean, inadmissible. It is unacceptable for me to tell you both because of the citizens of BiH, of course, and because of our European path. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10113	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 19th point of the agenda: 105 Ad. 19. Information regarding the approvals granted for the use of the name Bosnia and Herzegovina The Council of Ministers delivered the Information in 4.4, and in line with the conclusion adopted at the 7th session of the House on the debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Associations and Foundations of BiH. Who says the conclusions don't apply? The Constitutional Legal Commission has delivered Opinion 8.5. I'm opening an information debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10115	The word has the chairman of the House of Representatives, Mr. Milorad Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10116	I hope you will have the patience to listen to me for just one second, because if you open the Information you will find very interesting associations and foundations here where the Association for the Gynaecological Endoscopy of BiH says, so you will find the General Society for the Control of BiH, so you will find the Association of Continuers of the tradition of Christian chivalry, knights and templars of BiH, and most of all I am amazed by the Association for the Welding of BiH. This is one of the reasons why we asked for the Information to be seen who, as well as in which way, started from 2004 to 2008, when they stopped granting approvals to these names, abused, in my opinion, the name BiH, which was done by the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice. And that is why it is necessary to conclude that all these so far givings are being revised in the names of the various associations and this is how the jesting of the BiH name is being made. And I will propose that the conclusion be made to make a review and that the ministry of justice, or the Council of Ministers, be re-determined according to the requirements for the inclusion of BiH's name in its name. Thank you. .../Shortly interrupted recording... replica, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10117	So, just a brief correction to the incorrect assumption. It didn't happen in 2008, it hasn't stopped with the approval of the use of the name because we had it on the Constitutional Commission, and I think my colleague Džaferović asked the question, which is why no organisation received it after 2008. So it was not suspended but simply there were no demands, and the requirements that were coming did not meet certain technical conditions that are being set before the organisations that seek to have a name for BiH in their name. So it's possible today, with respect for a certain procedure, but from 2008 to today no one has asked.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10118	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 106
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10119	I try to speak as soon as possible, almost every item of the agenda. So this is like this and that's how it was. I wouldn't stand up to confirm it, Mr. Magazinović explained it, but, Mr. Chairman, let me just tell you. You will offer a conclusion that will suggest this, I only ask you to consider this, so it is a administrative procedure and everything that can happen with the approvals that have already been issued is subject to the procedures laid down in the Administrative Procedure Act. And I'm asking you to take care of it. No Parliament's conclusions in this direction have any meaning, so you have that in mind. I will not be able to support such a conclusion of yours, although I agree with you that there are some names and some names and something of course that should be compared, but here is the administrative procedure. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10120	Thank you. No more reports. Moving to the 20th point of the agenda: Ad. 20. Information on the work of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Prosecutor's Office for 2011 The prosecution provided information on 16.4. in accordance with Article 13. The BiH Prosecution Act. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 8.5.2012. I'm opening an information debate. There are no reports. I conclude, there are no registered, esteemed colleagues, Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10122	Mr. Chairman, I wonder if there's anyone in the D.A.'s office here?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10123	There is Mrs. Jadranka Lokvić Misirača, V.D. The chief prosecutor, and Mrs. Ozrenka Nešković, the prosecutor.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10124	Our views on the prosecution are well known, therefore, that there is no constitutional framework, that an unconstitutional institution is established. We've had some remarks, we should have discussed it here in this Parliamentary Assembly, and unfortunately here we have information that we're getting to know and we're not in a situation that doesn't commit anything to the prosecution. Two questions that I think would be 107 significant. One is: How does the BiH Prosecutor's College meet, how is it held, since there is no BiH chief prosecutor for a long time? Another question: In the media, which I think is causing damage to the BiH judiciary, all levels, and it concerns that there have been certain suspicions of measles in the prosecutor's e-mails, some of the actions that have been taken, some of the prosecutors involved in some of the affairs relating to debts to their colleagues, and I am talking about media performances, with the reserve in this regard, but I think it would be very important that this is answered in some way. If he can't tonight, since we were too late, as part of a parliamentary question or an answer. And secondly, it is interesting that certain information, including the videos – since this report contains therefore information relations with the media – are therefore present in the media in a very strange way. There is an objective suspicion that someone in the D.A. is providing media with such information, which creates and re-influences the credibility and importance of this institution, even if it is who it is. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10125	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10126	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, this is the Information on the work of the Prosecutor's Office and our role in the discussion of the Information is to be informed of what the Prosecutor's Office did last year and to take what we are obliged to do in order for this institution to function as successfully as possible. I invite you to look at the observed problems in the work and look at the prophecies in this report, if anything. There are several recommendations that have been redistributed times several recommendations. And I call on all BiH institutions to do their part of the job so that the BiH Prosecutor's Office works as successfully as possible. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10127	Thank you. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10128	Well, maybe if my colleagues hadn't checked in, I wouldn't have insisted either, but here's the chance. Maybe since we have some responsible D.A.'s office here, I'd like to trouble one thing. We also see in the Information the organisational structure of the Prosecutor's Office and it stems from the Law on the Prosecution, which was declared by the High Representative in its own time, and confirmed or adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, in part, and, in part, as I recall correctly, by the regulations, by the relevant regulations adopted on the proposal of the Prosecutor General. There are two special departments, one, another department, Special Crimes Department, and this other Special Department for Organized 108 Crimes, Corruption, etc. and within it, but not in the name, it's located inside it, and it's internally distributed business, and this sector, I may be wrong, to fight terrorism or terrorism. My little suggestion would be in the following: therefore, if this terrorism were painted and named, if at all possible, and in the name of that special department, then to enter the name or be given to him in some way the place he deserves. Because indeed, we have incredible cases that are completely disregarded by this kind of organised crime, which unfortunately has been present since the war. I will remind only that a few years after the war, there was an organized terrorist act and the murder of Croatian national police officers in central Bosnia. It was obviously a thought - out and organized action aimed at preventing return, intimidation and disabling return. And unfortunately, these acts of terrorism are not lit up to this day. Perhaps this kind of formal giving meaning to terrorism as a phenomenon would strengthen the fight against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10129	Thank you. No more reports. No one needs to answer. On the occasion of this agenda, I conclude the debate. We're going to the 21st point, Ad. 21. Information on the situation and problems in the functioning of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency, with proposals to improve the situation in this area On the occasion of the realization of MP Nermin Purić's initiative adopted at the 24th session of the House. The agency delivered the information on 19.4. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 8.5.2012. I'm opening an information debate. Dear colleague Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10131	Thank you, Your Honor. Here, after consulting with one of the colleagues who would like to participate more actively in the debate on this agenda point, I would suggest that we make it clear that the debate on this agenda item should be postponed for the next session of the House of Representatives, given that it is quite late, that we are tired etc. And it's a matter of theme, so we'd like it to be done in a good way. 109
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10132	Of course, your proposal will be put to the vote. And no one's answered again. Please prepare to vote. So we're voting on the proposal... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10134	No shared discussion microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10135	Please slowly. These agenda points will come at the same time as the next session. Because the next session will also be a budget, there will be other laws and we will discuss it at this time, because it is impossible to place it in the first three places because it is information, unless this House decides that we should hold special sessions in relation to MPs' initiatives to give them importance. So don't hope that and by delaying this debate we won't be in the same position next time we have a session. Therefore, a joint discussion please, so I'm asking this home, at the request of my esteemed colleague Nermin Purić – whether he accepts the delay of the debate on this agenda item under number 21. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 20, "against" 12, "abstained" wasn't there. An initiative has been adopted to consider this item of the agenda at the next session. We're moving to agenda 22. Ad. 22. Analysis of the implementation of the State Strategy for War Crimes
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10138	Thank you, Chairman. I also suggest, given that it is a point that many participants here will want to discuss, to postpone it for the next session.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10139	Thank you. I would like to put a vote on the proposal of an esteemed colleague to postpone the debate for the next session. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 18, "against" 14, "abstained" wasn't. We don't have enough entity support from the Federation.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10140	Second round now.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10141	What about Božo, we need Božo? We can't decide on the second round, we need a third member of the College so we can meet as a commission to decide. So I ask the service that, if it is possible, invite a colleague, Božo Ljubić, since he is here in the O.R., so that we can immediately make a statement about this and so that we can move on. If you agree that I begin the agenda until my colleague joins us, we temporarily leave this 22nd item on the sidelines. We're going to 23. Ad. 23. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives in the Joint Commission in order to achieve an identical text Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions The House of Representatives and the House of Peoples adopted the draft law on the financing of BiH institutions in different texts. It is necessary for the House to appoint three members to the Joint Commission. The proposal of the Kolegijum at home in the expanded composition is that they should be respected colleagues Dušanka Majkić, Dragan Vrankić and Amir Fazlić. Do you have any other suggestions? 111 If you don't have any other suggestions, we'll move on. Point 24. Ad. 24. Extending the mandate of the Research Commission to check the legality of the ammunition destruction process and mine-explosive means, weapons and military equipment
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10145	There is.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10146	Moving on means to vote in the second round on... 112
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10147	No shared discussion microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10148	Let's wait for them to come, shall we? So there won't be two-thirds of the Federation against, so we'll pass the proposal anyway. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We won't have a "yes." [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10151	You don't need a break.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-10-0.u10152	Don't you need a break? Okay. Please prepare for the vote. We vote in the second round. You can vote now! "For" 19, "against" 14, "restricted" one. There weren't two-thirds of the vote 'against' from any entity. So, we accepted a proposal from a distinguished colleague to leave the analysis of the implementation of the State Strategy for War Crimes cases to be considered at the next session. Is it enough at 1 9:45 to start voting? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? At 19.45, I think it's a perfectly decent time. Thank you. [[PAUZA]]
