ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1572	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, international institutions, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you. I agree to continue the work of the 18th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Since the 18th meeting of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was held on 22.06 after the completion of the debate on the 10th item of the adopted session agenda for justifiable reasons, it was suspended. We are now going to continue the session to discuss the remaining points of the agenda, i.e. from points 11 to 27 of the agenda. The 18th session is attended by 15 envoys. We move immediately to review item 11 of the agenda 18. Sit down, Ad. 11. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Material of the BiH Ministry of Justice You have received a report from the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The commission adopted the report and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The House of Representatives is on 29th. The session, held on 07.06 this year, was adopted by the Report on the application of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in BiH Institutions with the conclusions contained in it. I give my word to the chairman of the Constitutional Judicial Commission, Mr Simić, if there is any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1574	I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1575	Thank you very much. I give my word to a representative of the Justice Department's proposal if there is any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Two interested people I don't see. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate on this agenda point. We are voting on the adoption of the report with the conclusions contained in it. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. All green, thank you very much. Of the other 15, for 15, no one against, no one abstentioned. Federation of BiH 10 – all for, RS 5 – all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Regulations in BiH institutions with the conclusions contained in it has been adopted. We're moving to agenda 12, Ad. 12. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, BiH Personal Data Protection Agency material
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1578	There's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1579	Thank you. I give the word to the proposing representative, if necessary, the Agency. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. Since we don't have any reports, and I don't see any interest in the application, we're closing the debate on this agenda point. Please initiate voting procedures on the adoption of the report with the conclusions contained in it. At present 15 – for 15, Federation of BiH 10 – all for, RS 5 – all for. We have a general and entity majority. I agree with the report on the protection of personal data in BiH for the past year with the conclusions contained in it. 3 We move to the 13th point of the agenda, Ad. 13. Information on BiH's state of crime in 2011, BiH Council of Ministers' material
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1583	They've got two mistakes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1584	They've got two mistakes, haven't they?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1585	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1586	We're voting on the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1587	4 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1588	So, as far as the stenogram is concerned, we say, we vote on the Commission's conclusion. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Okay, sorry, let's move on. So, of the 15 present – for 14.1 abstention. Federation of BiH 9 for and 1 abstention, RS 5 – all for. The general majority exists, the entity majority exists. I conclude the Joint Defence and Security Committee's conclusion has been adopted. We're moving on to item 14 of the agenda, Ad. 14. Report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of the conditions of stay in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed in the criminal proceedings of the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the period 14/09/10 to 31/12/11.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1593	6 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1594	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We've got reports. Here you go, buddy Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1595	Good afternoon, everyone's esteemed colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. Obviously, so far with Parliament and the Council of Ministers, the agency has no luck and all that is happening is very slow. Most of the time limits set for monitoring, for the implementation of specific measures under the Anti-Corruption Strategy Action Plan, 9, 14, deadlines have long expired, even before the appointment of the Director and Deputy Director, and we have not provided the Agency with material and technical conditions, so even today they have no space. It seems to me even the budget isn't... The Council of Ministers never gave a positive opinion on the Internal Fire and Systematisation Regulation, but it seems to me that this was done these days, although the Commission's conclusion on the selection and monitoring of the Agency's work was to do so within 15 days, i.e. by the end of May and so on. Most of these specific measures, and after the appointment of the directors, will not be able to end, and the Agency is ignored by almost all levels of government, because they have never delivered, in fact, most of these institutions from all levels, have not submitted their plans to fight corruption which the Agency has writtenly requested, etc. Since it is really going hard and slow with the Agency I propose, I don't know if the Rules of Procedure allow me, if I can't do it at the beginning of the next session, I propose an initiative to make a decision on the establishment of a joint parliamentary anti-corruption committee. I repeat, it means establishing a joint parliamentary anti-corruption commission. The commission's tasks are classics, among other things, to monitor and analyse the work of state services, and then to consider the performances, which will certainly be in large numbers, and guide them to competent authorities. So here's my question, is this the correct way I'm putting up with the initiative, if not then I'll do it at the beginning of the next session within that first point.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1596	Thank you, fellow Bradarić. Do we have more debates? We don't. I don't see any interest in any more debates. Just one brief consent, to avoid any problems. Thank you very much. Thank you, fellow Bradarić. We're voting on the Commission's conclusions. Attending 15 - all for. Federation of BiH 10 for, RS 5 – all for. The general and entity majority exist. I find the conclusions of the Committee for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption have been adopted. 7 We move to the 16th point of the agenda, Ad. 16. Information on the pre-accession assistance instrument programming process (IPA) – Component I for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012 and 2013
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1599	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The latest information considered by the Commission for European Integration on the programming process of the IPA proposal – Component I of the sectoral and project advances was 08.03 this year. After that, we also had certain conclusions on the Commission, and the deadline for the submission of formulated proposals was somewhere in July, where we are now, I don't know if anything has changed in the meantime. In any case, I think that there is also a state IPA coordinator and representatives of the European Integration Directorate, that it would be very important and meaningful for them to meet the House of Peoples on the state of production and handing over projects, where we are, where the problems, which are project and sectoral proposals, which are not, and what are the chances of this job successfully ending and ensuring the use of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1600	Thank you, Genjac. Do we have any other suggestions? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Of course, of course. Okay, thank you. About, uh, here's a proposal from a fellow Genjac, is there a need for... Here you go. Director Savić. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1602	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honored delegates of the House of Nations, colleagues, media representatives. I thank you for this question, Mr Genjac, because indeed the Directorate for European Integration has on several occasions informed the Council of Ministers on the programming process for 2012 and '13. And on your agenda is one of the information, but really programming dynamics is such that what stands in the information is overcome. Here, I am pleased to inform the People's House that we are on Friday 13, which was the deadline to deliver the package for 2012, to the European Commission and to submit a list of our agreed proposals. If you just let me say briefly that this year's programming was a little bit specific compared to earlier years, that the European Commission's proposal was to program together in '12. and in '13, that the European Commission introduced specific rules, given the bad experience we had in programming '11, that from the very beginning working groups were formed from competent institutions in all projects, that it was required to reach consensus in each working group so that there was no problem in the implementation phase, which was the case with some previous years since 2007, '08. over here. So, let me say, a consensus has been reached, a list of proposals, on the list of our proposals there are 19 projects, and if there's so much time, I'd say what projects are about, and then what's left of them is inconsistencies. So, the sectoral project in the field of justice, then in the field of transport, in the area of law enforcement, money laundering, building capacity building, which is particularly important for you, strengthening public procurement systems, then statistics, innovation, establishing a system for state aid, then a project supporting the Directorate for indirect taxation, then a project in the field of education, strengthening social inclusion, implementation of the Action Plan for Roma, then implementation of Annex VII, promotion of safety and protection of health at work, support for demining, then improving animal health and food safety, further strengthening of the capacity of the Fito-Conventary Sector and the General Instrument for Support for European Integration, one of the components. What else is inconsistencies? Two complete project fichees remain unconformed. One relating to small and medium-sized enterprises and other energy. And individual components of the three projects – the first General Instrument for Support for European Integrations, then support in the area of law enforcement one component relating to forensics and improving animal health and food safety management is not in line with Component III. What's the next step? So we sent the package to the European Commission and now we expect their answer. When these indicative amounts are summed up, I have to say that all the amounts at this stage are still indicative, they are over 170 million marks. When more of this is added which is not in line, which we hope will agree in the next period, it will probably exceed the number of the two-year location. So we expect the European Commission's response where they will say exactly which projects will enter the '12s. And what's left for '13? And we're still working on harmonising these remaining projects so they can find themselves in a package for '13. So the amounts are indicative and we're waiting to decide what's going to be part of the package for '12, what's going to be for '13. It continues to work on uncoordinated projects. Here's how much I'd like for now, so if there's any questions I'll answer. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1603	Thank you very much. Here, I'm reopening the debate on this matter. Now it's clearly much clearer what it was. No discussion, no interest in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We vote first on the Information. This is a mistake with me, obviously I didn't push hard enough, but let's keep going, I don't see any problem with it, so we're giving support to the Information. For those present 15 — for 14, abstained 1 by mistake. Federation of BiH 9 for, 1 abstention, RS 5 – all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I establish the Information on the programming process of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) – Component I for BiH for 2012 and 2013 has been adopted into knowledge. And now we will vote on the conclusion of the Joint Commission. Attending 15 – all for. Federation 10 – all for, RS 5 – all for. We have a general and entity majority. I find the conclusion of the Joint Committee on European Integration has been adopted. We're going to the 17th agenda, Ad. 17. Report on the work of the Office for the Review of Appeals in 2011 You have received a report from the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. The commission adopted the following conclusions, and proposed their adoption to the House. We have three conclusions. 1. The People's House postpones its statement on the Office's work on complaints for 2011 and requests from the Office for the Review of Appeals to supplement its report on the work for the past year with a detailed analysis of the structure of the cases that the Office solved in that year; 2. The People's House is in charge of the Council of Ministers to initiate the selection procedure of members of the BiH Office for the Review of Appeals, which expired its mandate, as well as the appointment of the Office's chairman in accordance with the applicable regulations; and 3. The President of the Board of Appeal shall be required to submit the Annual Work Report to the Parliamentary Assembly pursuant to Article 8(2) of Article 33. Regulation concerning the internal establishment of the Office for the Review of Appeals. I'm opening a debate. Is there? Here you go, buddy Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1605	I promise I won't talk anymore. The Public Procurement Agency, that is, the Board of Appeals, sees from these materials, that the government is a general mess and a general mess. They're guilty, they're all guilty. The relationship between the Agency’s staff and the Office is such that they produce permanent adverse consequences and 10 are not jointly considered proposals to help better function public procurement, and we know that in public procurement we have the most corruption that we all talk about. In December 2010, members of the Office had expired their mandate, some had to retire by law, and this is the fault of the Council of Ministers because it never did, and the request came from the Office to give authentic interpretation or some kind of act were, in connection with this, rather contradictory. There is an undiscipline in the Office for the Review of Appeals for which a good part of the work has not been done or has not been done in time, i.e. it has been done in late deadlines, which has been relatively negatively reflected. In the office even fighting, this isn't what she said, it says there, I think half of the report describes how they got into a fight, which is, which is a mess. The office pays $150,000 for rent, which is because they are both in the centre and in the middle of Sarajevo, meaning in an elite, mondenic work. The question is, is it really a need and a td? The European Commission is sharply criticising the work of this Office and it is not fair here in this Information when it is said that the European Commission has found that some progress has not been made in the work. And here is what the European Commission, which should not be ignored, says that the Agency and the Office are not productive enough to disseminate information on the public procurement system and provide practical assistance to public contracting authorities and businesses. Cooperation between the Agency and the Office, this must be done, it is not effective, the Office does not fully apply the Rules of Procedure which led to a longstanding conflict within the Office. Professional skills, which is the most devastating, procurement officers in terms of adequate implementation of public procurement procedures are not at a satisfactory level, and says there – there is an awful bad mechanism of coordination and co-operation between relevant institutions and offices, within and within the Office. Therefore, this report is not good, I will not support it, it did not even have detailed analysis of the structure of the case and at the request of the Commission for budget and finance and it was delivered, even though no information was updated there either. You don't know the date of reception, you don't know the date of resolution under the Administrative Procedure Act, it's 15 days, but it doesn't say whether it's within that time limit. And it is also surprising that the director who also informed the European Commission from his point of view about the events within the Office and so on. In this regard, I propose a conclusion that the House of Peoples asks the Council of Ministers of BiH to immediately, and no later than 15 days, form a working group that will analyse the situation in these two institutions and propose solutions to overcome problems in their work. The task force, this is not booked, would count 8 members, three House of Representatives, three House of Peoples and one representative of the Ministry of Finance and Justice. If anyone's going to be from the office, here it is, so I'm saying it's not this proposal set up. I remind you that one conclusion has been made before, but it hasn't been done, so here I am considering this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1606	Okay. Thank you, colleague Bradarić. If there's only one comment, let's not make a mistake. We're on our Committee, we just presented it, we adopted the conclusions, I read them. One of these conclusions, just the second conclusion, is that we're giving the Council of Ministers the task of determining how we just read it. The People's House is in charge of the Council of Ministers, which is the conclusion of number two, to initiate a procedure for selecting members of the Office for the Review of Appeals to which the term of office has expired, as well as the appointment of the President of the Office in accordance with the applicable rules. 11 And that is what we have done in the commission. Today, we are voting exclusively on the Commission's conclusions. But here, more like a note for the other debates to come. I'm a colleague of Simić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1607	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and colleagues. Given the conclusions that have been proposed I will not deal with the content of the report itself. However, this report raises a question that was very current on the recently held, I think overlaps, one expert consultation where certain agencies were present, and there we heard that in RAC we haven't chosen leadership for almost four years, that we have one blockade, that we have an illegal and illegal system. People there themselves admit they're working with a limited power system, and the pay stays the same. The same problem arises here, and I would therefore ask that it be borne in mind that, in future, it must not be allowed for persons who have expired their term of office to perform those functions and duties as if nothing had happened. It really seems a bit morbid to have at your expert consultation the report of this particular Commission, the RAC, which says – we have leadership for which we do not know what it is, or who it is, whether it has a mandate or not. Unfortunately, it also appears here in a very sensitive area which may be the most subject of public interest through public procurement. In this direction I support this conclusion, I just wanted to point out that it is not just a phenomenon in this Commission, that it is a phenomenon in many other segments, which is extremely unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1608	Thank you, colleague Simić. Do we have any more reports to discuss? As far as I can tell, it's gone. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And, colleague Pilav, would you like to what, comment on something or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1610	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1611	So, I'm going to ask you something, of course, without wanting to deny you the right to say anything. We have suggested conclusions to this House in a way that we have said that the House of Nations is delaying the statement of the Report, which was the first conclusion. So the second conclusion was that the House of People owed the Council of Ministers to determine what I had read. And the third is that you, as chairman of the Board of Appeals, submit the report to the Parliamentary Assembly and so on. I will ask you if you have anything short, but let us not discuss the report itself, for we are not discussing it as such today. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1612	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear delegates of the House of Nations. As far as the first point of conclusion is concerned, I would like to say that the Board of Appeals has provided this requested, additional information in 19.06. and that they have not been considered at the Commission for Finance and the budget of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly so far. So, so these additional data requested have already been delivered. As for points two, I'd like to pray that you have the following in mind here. As for the alleged end of the term of office of the Board of Appeals, the Law on Public Procurement of BiH, which is currently in force, does not foresee any restriction on the duration of the term of office of members of the Board of Appeals. That's one. Two, in the decisions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the appointment of all six current members of the Board of Appeals, there is no restriction on the duration of the term of office members to discuss complaints. There is indeed one decision by the Council of Ministers in 2005 which is applied in the procedure of appointing the current members of the Office for the Review of Appeals and which says the term of office takes 5 years. In view of the provision that it does not comply with the Law on Public Procurement and with the decisions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the appointment of all six current members of the Board of Appeals, the Board of Appeals informed the Council of Ministers in June 2010 and asked for appropriate measures to be taken to avoid the issue. We even then suggested what should be done in a specific case. However, the Council of Ministers has not discussed this information so far, and we now have the situation that in 04/07, the Council of Ministers held a meeting, and on the proposal, on the basis of the Justice Ministry's information, it was found that most of the members of the Office's mandate was expired. The information does not state which members of the Board of Appeal have expired. Therefore, as this was done on the basis of previous information from the administration inspector of the Justice Ministry, I remind you that it was not, the procedure was not implemented, which is that the decision to determine which members of the Office's mandate expired, as in that case those who are not satisfied with such a solution would have the right to appeal to the minister of justice, and after the decision of the justice minister by appeal, there is the possibility of starting a administrative dispute before the BiH Court of Justice. Therefore, the procedure has been completely bypassed, and the consequence of the adoption of this information to the Council of Ministers, i.e. the consequence of the adoption of such a formulation at point two of the conclusions proposed by the Commission for Finance and the Budget of the House of Nations, is that we are in a position to challenge the legality of all decisions taken by the Board of Appeal from December 2010 to today. I remind you, it is several thousand decisions with inconceivable consequences for the Budget of BiH. What I am proposing, and what we have long proposed, even in this Information 2010 to avoid getting into such a dangerous situation is to go to changes to the Public Procurement Act where this situation would be predicted and where we would remove all possible negative consequences. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1613	Here, we heard a brief comment outside the Board of Appeal. Now, we have a situation, so we have a proposal ahead of us to conclude the Committee on Finance and Budget, and on the other hand, we have this conclusion proposed by a colleague Bradarić, who is still empowering about what we discussed on our Committee. If there are no more reports for the hearing, and I can see that there is no, nor is there any interest in the debate, I am the one who concludes the debate. 13 And first I suggest we vote on the conclusions of the Committee, so these are the three conclusions that I just read. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 15 - for 13, is this a mistake? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Never mind, we can move on. Suleiman, we can move on. Is this a voter mistake or what?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1615	No, I'm in a dilemma about this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1616	You're in a good dilemma, okay. 15 - 13 for, 2 abstentions. Federation of BiH 9 for, 1 abstention, RS 4 for, 1 with mistake refrained. Anyway, we have a general and entity majority. I find that the conclusions of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly have been adopted. And now I suggest we vote on the conclusion of fellow Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1617	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1618	Here you go, colleague Bradarić, you'll have to sign up and let's get in the process. Now go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1619	It says within the time limit, that a working group is formed to analyse the situation in these two institutions, means at the Public Procurement Agency and at the Board of Appeals. There.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1620	Okay. Thank you very much for your clarification. Is there any need to read this conclusion again for other colleagues? You all got it?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1621	So this is how I ask the Council of Ministers to immediately, and no later than 15 days, form a task force that will analyse the situation in these two, says here in these two.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1622	I'm opening a further discussion on this conclusion. My colleague Ivanic answered first. Here's a colleague of Ivanic's. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1623	Ma, first of all, the conclusion is a little contradictory, we ask of, Mr. Bradarić asks the Council of Ministers to form, and then gives him a composition, where, the Council of Ministers should form of three representatives of us, it doesn't seem to me to be working with each other. On the other hand, I don't think we need to get involved in this kind of activity of the Council of Ministers, and that's the conclusion where they're asked for the most direct maximum that we can do. We have a committee to monitor, conditionally put, work and she's in charge, and I don't see such an honest need for this all. That the situation is there, I fully agree with my colleague Bradarić, obviously disastrously, that there is no one talking to anyone, that they think they have been chosen for centuries, that they are longer than the Constitutional Court of BiH, that they have been strengthened by what has been their mandate, and then we must not resolve them because they will drop the decisions they have made. Well, I don't think there's a position like that anywhere in the world, which is where I agree with you. But I don't think it's us who need to do it, but that the Council of Ministers who have an obligation to do it in their own way. And that's why I think that conclusion that the Commission made is perfectly fine and I would never go further than that. Without, so I completely agree with intensity and desire, but I think that conclusion is enough from us. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1624	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1625	This was all already in the procedure, I've practically prescribed it, I'm not the one in the task force and nothing's been done. That job was left unfinished, unfinished, not even started. So here's the way we're looking for a repeat of this procedure, so, it was already once, the request went to the Council of Ministers and they didn't finish the job. That's why I reached that conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1626	All right, thank you, colleague Bradarić. Let's move on. A fellow Košarac player.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1627	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to say hello. I think Mr. Bradarić has a good intention and that it is very important to stress that the problem in Bosnia and Herzegovina is exactly the Law on Public Procurement. And that is the problem of this country. The very implementation of the Law on Public Procurement, the deadlines, of course, the abuse of the Public Procurement Act is something that slows this country's development. That's clear. Obviously, there is a problem between the Public Procurement Agency and the Office of Appeals, and obviously there are dissonant tones. And it is obvious that Parliament must declare this and Parliament must give the task of resolving this issue. I have only a dilemma here regarding this conclusion and the formulation of the conclusion, because I have information, I would like to be corrected or confirmed, and that is that the Council of Ministers 15 has made a decision on the establishment of a task force in which colleagues from the House of Representatives participate, and the question is what would be achieved by formulating such a conclusion, precisely with the aim of solving the problem between the Public Procurement Agency and the Office of Appeals. So here may be someone who has more information, but it would be good if we had that information here so that we could make a statement about these conclusions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1628	Thank you, colleague Košarac. A fellow Genjac. [[Common discussion]] He was a fellow Genjac. Did you give up?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1630	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1631	Excuse me. My kolegica Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1632	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, deputies, fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, guests, I welcome you all. Well, also, on my part, I wouldn't be going into the discussion about the report on the work of the Office of Review, since we've adopted conclusions that really sort of solve these dilemmas, so at least they're in the middle of it. And also realizing in fact the intention and goal of the esteemed colleague Bradarić, especially given what counterpart Staša Košarac said, I am afraid that in this way we will not come up with a solution to this problem, especially because at this point we have no information about what the House of Representatives did, whether a commission was formed. We as the House of Peoples can form, and we have this right by the Rules of Procedure, a certain investigative commission, but it can only be the commission of the House of Peoples. Let's see, since there is, here and there can be support in such a way that we go just means with proposals from the investigative committee in this situation, to see what the Council of Ministers did, which was done by the House of Representatives. After that brief, let me say the brief information from our investigative committee, we can draw adequate conclusions, whether it will be a commission which, together with the Council of Ministers and the House of Representatives, will set up a working group like this. Well, I suggest that my colleague Bradarić step down in terms of it in some way, and that we just go to the formation of some commission so that at the next session we can adequately, let me say, declare his initiative or the proposal for a conclusion. Thank you. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1633	Thank you, colleague Krišto. Well, I think the atmosphere was created so that we'd get into a bit of a voting problem... of this conclusion and I think it's wise,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1634	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1635	I think it is wise to withdraw this conclusion and at this point, given that the House of Representatives has again taken this report off the agenda, given that the Ministry of Justice has been tasked with carrying out the tender procedure for all those members who have expired the term of office, who have obtained a condition for retirement, these are all the facts that have already been done. And I think at this point this conclusion that we just adopted as Dom, with three points that defined the Commission, is sufficiently substantial that we can work on it further. Do you all agree with that? Thank you very much. I'm closing this agenda. We're moving on to point 18, Ad. 18. Discuss the extension of the mandate to BHRT Management Board members The Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Liaison of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly held on 21 April this year discussed the letter from the Management Board of the RTVBiH, dated 23.05., which requested the extension of the term of office of members of the Management Board to which the term of office had expired. The commission has adopted its conclusions, and is proposing to the House their adoption. We have two conclusions: 1. The members of the Supervisory Board of RTVBiH which have expired shall be extended for a period of 90 days starting from 01.06 this year; 2. The House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the Council of Ministers to, within 90 days, implement the conclusion adopted at the 8th session of the House of People, held on 21.12.2011, which reads – the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the Council of Ministers to prepare and to submit to the parliamentary procedure amendments and additions to the Law on Communications and the Law on Public TV Service of BiH, which will allow the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's parliamentary assembly on the re-implementing process of the appointment of BHRT Board members from the Croatian and Serbian people. I give my word to my colleague Bećirović, the chairman of the Committee, if there is any need.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1637	17 [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1638	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? I don't see any reports. I don't see the interest in the application. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal of these two conclusions on behalf of the Committee. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 15 — For 15. Federation of BiH 10 – all for, RS 5 – all for. There's a general and entity majority. I conclude the conclusions of the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Connections of the People's House of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH have been adopted. We're going to the 19th agenda, Ad. 19. Selection of four members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the House of Representatives at the 16th session, held on 22.12.2011 and at the 8th session of the House of People, held on 21.12.2011, appointed members of the Interim Joint Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly to conduct the selection procedure of four members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. At the 5th session, held on 07.05 this year, the Interim Joint Commission of both homes identified and submitted a proposal for a single list of four candidates for the appointment of members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency. In line with the proposal from the Interim Joint Committee of both homes today, we need to declare the appointment of four members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. The House of Representatives appointed Amaro Miraščija from the Bosniak people, Ivo Rozić from the Croatian people, Milenko Stanić from the Serbian people and Lamija Tanović from the ranks of others, members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency. I give my word to my colleague, Krišto, if there's any need in front of the Joint Committee.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1640	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1641	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We don't have any reports. I don't see any interest in the application. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal for a single list of four candidates for the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency, which consists of Amar Miraščija, Ivo Rozić, Milenko Stanić and Lamija Tanović. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. 18 At present 15 – for 14 and 1 abstention. Federation of BiH 10 – all for, RS 4 for and 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that Amar Miraščija, Ivo Rozić, Milenko Stanić and Lamija Tanović were appointed members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. We're moving to agenda 20, Ad. 20. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both Bosnia and Herzegovina Parliamentary Assembly homes for the implementation of the appointment procedure of directors and deputy directors of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina At the 13th session, held on 2106 this year, the Joint College of the Both Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly discussed a letter from the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH requesting the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to open a public tender and conduct the selection procedure for the director and deputy director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH. In this connection, the Joint College of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly established a proposal for conclusions on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the implementation of procedures for the appointment of directors and deputy directors of the Personal Data Protection Agency, and referred it to the homes for consideration and adoption. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports, there's no interest in the application. We're closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal for a conclusion. From the present 14 — for 14. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 5 – all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we adopted the Conclusion on the establishment of the Interim Joint Commission of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's homes for the implementation of the procedure for the appointment of directors and deputy director of the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in BiH, and we appointed Borjana Krišto, Dragutin Rodić and counterpart Halid Genjac as members of the Committee of the People's House. We're moving on to the 21st agenda today, Ad. 21. Proposal for a conclusion on the extension of the amendment phase for the Customs Tariff Law
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1645	I don't.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-0.u1646	Thank you very much, colleague Bećirović. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I don't see any interest in the application. We're closing the debate. We are voting in favour of the ratification of the agreement and of the conventions referred to in points 22 to 27, including point 27. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 14 — for 14. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 5 – all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that we agreed to ratify the agreement and the conventions referred to in points 22 to 27, including point 27. 20 With this we exhausted the agenda of the 18th session. I propose to the distinguished colleagues a 15-minute break, so we proceed with the 19th session. Session completed at 11:20 p.m.
