ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1756	Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers of BiH, international representatives, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 20th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The session is attended by 15 envoys, meaning 5 from the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian nations. For the 20th session, I propose the next amended Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 18th and 19th meetings of the House of Peoples; 2. Answers to envoys' questions and new envoys' questions; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the People's House, Law No 01,02-02-1-31/12 of 13.07.2012; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading), Proposers: Representatives Borjana Krišto and Dragutin Rodić, Law No: 02-02-1-19/12 since 16.05.2012; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01.02-02-1-26/12 of 26.06.2012; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of the Administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-30/12 of 11.07.2012; 7. Information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office; 8. A report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for the period from 01.01.2011 to 31.12.2011, the BiH Ombudsman's material No: 01.02-10-742/12 since 21.06.2012. As you can see from that proposed written agenda, we downloaded item 5 as we received a request to withdraw from the procedure Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, which they provided to us, in front of the Commission, colleague Borjana Krišto, colleague Halid Genjac and colleague Dragutin Rodić. It's more like information about the agenda. So this is the harmonized agenda of the House of People's Colleges. 2 Is anyone answering for a word? Do we have any proposals for changes and additions to the agenda? As far as I can tell, no one's registered, nor has any interest in the application. Since there are no amendments and amendments to the agenda, the agenda has been adopted and is not voted in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Moving to the point of today's agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 18th and 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. I don't see any interest in the application, and there's no application. That concludes the debate. We're voting on the 18th session of this House. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 15 — For 15. Federation of BiH 10 – all for, RS 10 – all for. The general and entity majority exist. I agree that the 18th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. Now, please initiate voting procedure for the 19th session. Attending 15 – all for. Federation of BiH 10 – all for, RS 5 – all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree that the 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Answers to Envoys' Questions and Envoys' Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1759	Dear Mr. Chairman, co-chaired, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Council of Ministers, media representatives. On my delegation issue, asked at the 15th session of this House, which reads – when the Council of Ministers of BiH will submit a report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the realization of the conclusions of the 62nd session of the BiH Parliamentary House on the implementation of measures and activities for the 3rd resolution of the problems of BiH citizens who were employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia and in the period of '91. '95. The years have been fired from work, which will include activities taken by the BiH Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees, I have received a response that I am not satisfied with. I think at the very least that this serious issue and this serious problem are a scandalous response from these three ministries and representatives of the Council of Ministers. It is scandalous that the foreign ministry considers enough to have given only 100,000 marks to address the problem of this very, very damaged population of BiH citizens. I note those who sent me information that I did not ask them for an analysis of international legal sources that oblige BiH and the Republic of Croatia, I did not ask them about the Agreement on Stakeholder Affairs, and I specifically did not ask them about the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, because as a graduate in postgraduate, savremen diplomacy at the Faculty of Political Sciences in Sarajevo, I know very well. I did not ask them about the plan of measures to be taken to address the problems of BiH citizens who were employed in the Republic of Croatia in the period '91. By '95, I asked them what they did under that plan? In their response, they gave me no indication of a single word, except for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' scandalous response that they gave only 100,000 marks for this very damaged population. Therefore, I would like to request a detailed report on the results of all the activities that these three ministries, i.e. the Council of Ministers, have done, so to the population of citizens who were employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia and in the period of '91. '95. fired from work. And I want to know what activities have been done by the foreign ministry, the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1760	Of course, we're going to record this and rediscover it as a question. We didn't have any other objections. That concludes the debate in this section. Do we have any new envoy questions? Here you go. He's a colleague of Ivanic's.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1761	Ten months have passed since the adoption of the House's conclusion that an analysis on the work of foreign prosecutors and judges will be sought. And it was all supposed to be done within a month. We don't have an analysis until today. We received two answers, one from the BiH Prosecutor's Office in which it provided at least some information and the BiH Court who made it very clear – ask OHR about foreign judges. From the prosecutor's answer to our conclusion, we didn't evaluate or any of us had courage, I mean no courage but had no room to assess foreign judges and prosecutors. I really think it's a very negative and bad relationship to this House. We're not talking about any particular case, so let's influence the Court and the D.A.'s office. We are talking about an analysis of the results of the work of foreign prosecutors and judges in BiH. 4 I ask the College a question – Does the College intend to ask the OHR for this analysis, since the most direct Court of BiH referred to the OHR? So the President of the Court said ask the OHR. In his answer, it's very clear. So my question now is the question of the College – Will you ask OHR to analyse the work of foreign prosecutors and judges to finally realize our conclusion from September last year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1762	Thank you, colleague Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1763	I got it in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1764	Of course. My kolegica Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1765	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, deputies, fellow Members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests and respected media, I welcome you all. I have two envoys' questions. And my first question is addressed to the BiH Directorate for European Integration, which is explained. The pre-accession assistance instrument programming process, Component I for BiH for 2012 and 2013 is in the final phase. The deadline for the development and delivery of the formulated proposal to the European Commission is 01 June 2012 and the deadline for the submission of final project proposals is 13 July 2012. As delays in the submission of project proposals can cause very harmful consequences for BiH to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, it adopted a conclusion at its session – all institutions involved in the IPA programming process, Component I for 2012 and 2013 are committed to making further efforts to bring the remaining project proposals into line and to make the projects formulated up to a certain deadline. My question regarding this is – What has been done according to this conclusion of the House of Peoples? And I demand that I be provided with full information on the actions and activities of the competent institutions so far taken on this matter. My second question is addressed to the BiH Ministry of Transport and Communications and the Directorate for indirect taxation. Following Croatia's entry into the EU next year, exports of animal goods will be possible only over two Bijac and Gradiška border crossings. It is evident that BiH, in a delay in introducing the necessary standardisation for EU goods intended for the market, and failure to meet and technical preconditions, in terms of proper preparation of these border crossings, would completely impair exports to the EU, and would have a negative impact on the overall economic movements of BiH. In this regard, my representative question is – at what stage are the preparations related to the construction and training of these two Bijač and Gradiška border crossings, which will ensure the export of animal goods to the EU, including road infrastructure towards the same? Thank you very much. 5
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1766	Thank you, colleague Krišto. kolegica Kapetanović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1767	Thank you, Chairman. My first question is to ask the BiH Institutions Audit Office – What is the national structure of all the employees of the BiH Institutions Audit Office? Is it true that four audit teams are down to three teams? I'd like the names of the head of the audit teams, the name of the head of the financial audit department and the head of the department for international relations. Is the Revision Act respected, which says that the staff structure of the Audit Office should reflect the national structure of the BiH population? My second question to the Council of Ministers is – When will the BiH Council of Ministers refer to the parliamentary procedure of the Proposed Law on Victims of Tortress and Civil Victims of the War of BiH? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1768	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. More reports, as far as I can tell, are gone. There's no interest in reporting. That concludes this agenda point. We're moving on to the point of today's three agenda, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of BiH institutions by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples You have received a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of BiH institutions by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. The House of Representatives is at 32. The session, held on 19 July of this year, rejected the request to consider the draft law by a hasty procedure and accepted that the proposal for a law be considered by a shortened procedure. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Comrade Genjac, here you go, fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1770	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So now we're considering procedurally whether we're because the law goes according to emergency procedure. And of course for that commitment, for me at least, it would take a few key answers to get. Therefore, it is said that the reason for the proposal of this Council of Ministers law stems from the need for detailed regulation of the provisions relating to the repayment of external debt in general, especially for the period of 6 years of temporary financing. These are the reasons for the bill and also the reasons for its urgency. However, when the content of the law itself is taken, I hope that there is someone here who will be able to give us answers, when the content of the law itself is taken, so Article 1 states that Article 11 paragraph 2 is changing and it is said – mainly that temporary funding will be made in proportion to the three-month average for the previous fiscal year. It's changed. It was before, therefore, that it would be at the level of 1/4 in the adopted budget for the previous fiscal year. Now, instead of a quarter of the adopted budget, it changes and says it will be spent in the three months for the previous fiscal year. So, I don't see that any special, I don't actually see anything to do with the service of external debt. I see only the danger that if the budget is not adopted and the temporary financing of the BiH institution is further brought into a very invisible position. Therefore, it is further said in that same Article 11 that attitude 5 is changing and it is said – during the duration of the provisional financing of the Council of Ministers, a special decision on expenditures not foreseen by the budget for the previous year can be made. I don't see what this has to do with the service of external debt. Therefore, the Council of Ministers, in situations where no budget has been adopted, can make decisions to create new spending parties and so on. Of course, it is later being built that it is in harmony with what has been collected. So, as much as the Council of Ministers can suggest, it spends. And finally, the provision in which it was spoken, in Article 11 of the 6th position, which said that the budget should be adopted by 31 March of each year, is now deleted, no longer obliged to adopt the budget by 31 March. And instead of this attitude, which was so, the attitude which spoke about the obligation to adopt the budget within a certain period, it is said – during the duration of the temporary financing and service of the external debt is done in accordance with Article 14 paragraph 8 and so on. So, with a note and an explanation that this is done for the service of external debt, we have one bill that says, on the occasion of the following -- the budget does not have to be adopted within the time limit, unless the budget is adopted on the basis of the funds spent from the same quarter of the previous fiscal year. The Council of Ministers can spend as much as it can by its decision and additional costs. And given the fact that this abolishing the budget deadline, I'm really asking what the intentions of this law are, so? This turns out to be a chance that if we don't adopt the budget, it wouldn't be good for us to adopt the budget, you know. We won't have these problems over the budget talks, the Council of Ministers will be given the authority to decide how much money will be spent, what is expensive will be spent, etc. Therefore, it would be necessary for these questions to be answered, and in any case I'm against, I'm very opposed to an emergency procedure for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1771	Thank you, Genjac. We don't have any more debates on the subject of urgency or... we don't have this proposal. I'm in the middle of a debate on this. I ask you to initiate the voting procedure on the procedure, therefore, whether or not we are going to consider the bill by a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. 7 Please initiate voting procedure. Of the 14 colleagues present there were four against ten. Federation of BiH 1 for, 8 against, RS 3 for, 2 against. The general majority doesn't exist. I find a request to consider the amendment and supplementation of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions by a hasty procedure has not been adopted. Since the request for an examination of the Amendment Law and the additions to the Law on the financing of BiH institutions under the hasty procedure has not been adopted, we now need first to make known about the request for a review of the Law under the reduced procedure, means in accordance with Article 121. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. So please initiate procedure, if we're going to, then, but since the time is up, I'm asking you to vote on the short procedure. From 14 to 10 present is for, against 2, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 6 for and 1 abstention, 2 against, RS 4 for and 1 against, or 1 abstention, pardon. There's a general majority, there's an entity majority. I find a request to consider the amendment law and amendments to the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, following a shortened procedure, was adopted. That's how we exhausted this agenda point. We're moving on to item four of today's agenda, Ad. 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) The promoters are colleagues Krišto and colleagues Rodić. This is a second reading. The second reading will hold a debate on repairs and vote on the bill's prerogative. You have received the Report, i.e. I still do not think we have received the Report of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. The commission is, I will ask my colleague Simić to report to us on behalf of the Committee on his position. Here's my colleague Simić. Just register, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1773	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I apologize for the technical difficulties in the secretariat that you have not received a written report yet, but in this direction I can inform you that we have held a session of the Constitutional Commission today. There were five members present. Mr Sulejman Tihić was rightly absent. We have considered the proposal for a law on conflict of interest in the BiH authorities and after discussing this issue,... it has only stood up... the public, we have concluded that there is a constitutional basis, when it comes to this matter. There was a difference when it came to conflicting with principles. Mr. Genjac was against, the other four members of the Constitutional Commission felt that there was no contradiction with the principles that exist in BiH and we concluded that this law is being considered by the House, and that the House will vote and decide this is a matter of the House. Thank you. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1774	Thank you, colleague Simić. Is there a need for you to take your word on behalf of the Proposer of the Law? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. A colleague, Bećirović, applied for the word. Here's a colleague of Bećirović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1776	Thank you. Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues. In my first reading discussion on this bill, I asked the Proposer to make amends right. Unfortunately, they didn't do it. And I also want to underline this time that, in my deep conviction, the proposal for this law is in direct contrast to the laws on companies and the Law on public enterprises of both entities, that the law completely misapplicated the term of management and that it implies very big problems in the implementation of this Law, and that is what I was talking about when we discussed the Law in the first reading. Because if it was done the way it was regulated in the entity's legal system, this law would look a little different. I want to repeat once again that in this Act, public enterprises and companies absolutely do not differ, that real confusion is termologically related to it, although they are, although they are fundamentally different in these terms. That the management term as a process was used at the place where the organs were spoken. And if we were to literally interpret that provision, it could be quite clear that the solution is, for example, the head of the department, because it is also the manager of management or the head of the service of some as elected official in the conflict of interest. So, again, I underline that this law, in my opinion, is in conflict, contrary to the laws of entities that regulate companies and public enterprises, and that the term of management in the Law is completely wrongly used. And for that reason, I think it would be best for this kind of solution, I'm not, of course, talking about other provisions, this kind of solution that implies a very confusing application of these provisions not to adopt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1777	Thank you, colleague Bećirović. A fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1778	I thank the chairman. The history of this Law is very interesting in Bosnian Herzegovina and I would say specifically because of the state of society, the layering of government, the distribution of jurisdiction, the multiple levels of government, the higher level of schedule of jurisdiction and so on. and so on. Since the Law has been passed, there have been objections and justified and unwarranted. Justified regrets that it is a very rigid law in some solutions, such as 9 is the solution to ban running, i.e. abolishing passive voting law, which is in a rather discriminatory manner with certain conventions, and we are warned of this. There were some other irregularities in the Law and technical and essential nature that should certainly have been improved. There have also been unwarranted objections in terms of the scope of this Act and so on, but in any case, when we talk about these solutions, we cannot talk about this Law without having to bear in mind that it is a law that aims to prevent corruption, that it is a law that is in a country where corruption is quite present, that we are not talking about percentages, degrees, etc. And if the simple state of society couldn't be ignored when laws like this were passed in terms of, you know, in some country, it's like that, and with us, it wouldn't be like that. Of course, it could be with us so that everything is as it is in that country with which we compare. Some of the improvements in this Act that have been made are the obligation to register property records and to unify the procedure for both appointed and elected officials. There are further improvements to the precision of some of the scenarios, so I would say there goes, in this direction and this member on sanctions that says there is no longer a ban on running, but there is the possibility of a shift, both the elected, and the executive, and the appointed official, i.e. bringing into an equal position and elected and appointed, i.e. in the jargon and the MPs and ministers, because so far only MPs have lost their mandate in the event of conflict of interest, the ministers had no one, there was no legal mechanism to sanction them with a shift. And it was one of the requirements to bring it in... and I think this law tends to do it. So, there have been good efforts and good solutions have been made, and with this comment on the name, concepts, compliance with the relevant entity laws... the solutions are completely justified, although all these concepts have been in the basic law since 2002 and these interventions have not been changed at all. So, in the basic law, they need all of these, all of these definitions, and all of this, this harmony with the relevant laws on companies to be put in order. What is a key problem, however, to ignore the fact that in the House of Representatives there is a law with the same content, but second name, there was a law here that proposed the Law on Amendments and Supplements, the content of the same, there that law was brought down, so it failed. And although it's not exactly business in essence we have a situation that in such cases, if, if it were the same law, the law would end here too. However, since the name of the law is different, let's leave these controversy aside, but what is essential about this Law with these solutions, as they are proposed, is a question of a very discriminatory area of elimination of advisers and close relatives. Councilors who are multiplying geometric progress due to higher levels of government in BiH are completely eliminated from the law and are not worth conflict of interest to them, and we know that they are not even defined by the Law on Civil Servants. Therefore, they remain completely free and untouchable as far as this Law is concerned, which is absolutely unacceptable. And the other thing, in our circumstances and our circumstances, when we have a government on every canton, and that's how it's getting more progressive and we know all these relationships and opportunities and our specificities and our inventions, the elimination of close relatives, I think it's, that it's very harmful. Or with this, with these two interventions regarding advisors and close relatives of the anti-corruption law, this law has become a law that will help corruption. So we can agree, not agree in some perspective we'll probably face the consequences and talk about them, my opinion is really that. Therefore, of course, we are not for no reason warned by the European delegation on this issue, it is not without reason and the great problem was also on the Interresor Group, and I want this opportunity to state, since we have worked long enough on this law, I know about the consequences of such solutions, 10 this Law could become, in place of anti-corruption law, a law that lightly, lightly facilitates corruption procedures. With all this in mind and these termological problems and these solutions, which have been observed, I think it would be best to approach the new Law of Conflict of Interest and of course to seek solutions appropriate to the state of the Bosnian Herzegovina society, the requirements of certain conventions which we both have and the recommendation of the Venice Commission on everything we have committed and, therefore, bearing in mind this job that has been done, but bearing in mind these delicate procedures to make a new bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1779	Thank you, fellow Genjac. I'm a colleague of Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1780	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I spoke earlier as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, and now I would like to say a few sentences about this Law. First of all, I must point out that this Law, which appeared in procedures, is the result of almost one-year work of the Interresor Group in which they were sitting, as our distinguished colleagues from this House, and unfortunately the House of Representatives and this Law, since I have information about how many opposite positions there were, has shown how much bh society was divided, even on some issues on which there should be no division, and these are issues of resolving certain members that would prevent corruption in society on the one hand, on the other hand, by the flow of companies, businesses and so on. I would therefore like to thank here, however, the members of the Interresor Group for their efforts and work and to try to adopt a legal text that would improve this. Perhaps the public doesn't know that these proposals that have emerged represent a minimum of what most have agreed on in the Interresor Group. So these are not proposals, this law is not a proposal, nor is Mrs Krišto, nor is Mr Rodić, but rather an Interresor Group proposal. I also share the opinion of those who today have said that this Law has a shortage, and in this technical sense, which Mr Bećirović spoke of. But these suggestions are not technical, they are essentially such as to block the Law, its application, make it very, very complicated and to understand and open space for various interpretations. I also believe that some of the solutions are not good quality and that these solutions do not create what was the objective of this Law, of establishing a system of prevention of so-called. the crime of a white collar where certain officials from their positions can make conveniences to traffic participants, where things can happen, big things, and we are aware that in the space of the former Yugoslavia after its collapse this very spectre of politics and certain businessmen or so on. A businessman created relationships that brought this society and society into the environment, often led to ruin. With that, I will not support this Law, and I believe that this matter deserves a very serious approach and that it is necessary to pass a new law that, as Mr Genjac said, would be appropriate... in BiH, but at the same time to the standards of Europe that we seek and that this law should be much more specific and clear. Of course, matter is serious, matter is sensitive, and it often penetrates even in an area that is of particular importance to privacy. I got some kind of CEC form that I'm gonna fill out, where I'm asked to deliver my sister's birth number. Do I have the right to deliver my sister's birth number? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And my sister's kids? So here, too, it needs to be a little bit more pragmatic and to create certain conditions to solve this in a more pragmatic way, especially when it comes to so-called. connected faces. I need to deliver the data of my wife's brothers living in Macedonia there. Maybe they have a company that can be connected... But on that, I also think that this is a very serious legal project that we should start dealing with as soon as possible and do it better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1782	Thank you, colleague Simić. He's a colleague of Ivanic's.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1783	Well, I appreciate the effort of the task force, too, and I think they were run by good intentions, but I don't think there was a good law at the end. It yields objectively and makes it easier, or less likely, conflict of interest, to give more space than the previous law. Among other things, and for this reason I cannot support this Law, I with the previous law, although I have been in BiH institutions for ten years now, had no problem. There was no conflict of interest anywhere, and absolutely from that point of view I do, and I think we should stay pretty tight on this, because I don't think corruption will solve this law, corruption will solve the general image and the general approach of all the institutions of this society. It's enough when you're in conflict of interest to be well-condemned by the media, in a normal country it should mean resigning if you're in conflict of interest. If in any way you used the body in which you represent the people for the purpose of accomplishing benefits your company or someone else. In developed countries, people resign when they make a small one, something that has not even been committed, is neither close, but is not acceptable from the public's point of view, they must withdraw. We're giving in even more here. You know here you can get a situation to set up a counselor who can arrange with his brother a nice job, have inside information from the institution itself, and everything's fine. You can have a business partner or in some way be associated with a man over, sit two members of the presidency of a party, one minister, another company owner and as you are not in conflict of interest if you give him a job. I think so. And generally, I think the law's intensity is too much of a discount. I have to say, I'm really not against it at all that a man can't, he has to resign and he can't be chosen if he was in conflict of interest once. What, what's the problem? His will and desire was to be in conflict of interest. I only think a man should be given a period when you warn him, so give him a period eventually to give it up, but if he stays, he consciously wants to be in conflict of interest, so what would be chosen again, I don't see any problem in it. I can do that when it's ignorance that you're in conflict of interest. Let's say I think that this attitude that speaks about who's a member of a company's assembly is maybe a little too tough with 1%, maybe a little bit, and in the current one I know, that part would have caved in from the current law and brought to 12 some reasonable measure, at least 5.6%, because all citizens are through at least internal stocks and via voucher co-owners somewhere. How do you know how much your participation in a company is if you're not too active in, so that part of the office, that part could be a little bit, and he's staying here, if I understand the position of this law where 1% of who has it is in conflict of interest, if, and considered a member of the assembly, is that right. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, no, so I see it is, but I think it's a little too sharp before, too, that only part I think is too sharp. There's a bit of a discount left for me, and that's why I'm not generally in favor of the law and I'm not voting for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1785	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. A fellow Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1786	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, everyone. Well, the essence of these laws, therefore, of the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, which, here today is taken off the agenda, is that it is God's, that you have proposed that this Law be removed from the agenda, too, is that political parties should be given as little money as possible and that as many relatives of public officials, so also elected officials and appointed advisers, etc. include in the conflict of interest. According to the views and assessments of these international relevant institutions, including the Venice Commission, which is very much mentioned, whose opinion we must respect, this law belongs to the group of the most rigorous, rigid laws precisely because it enters into the domain of human rights, i.e. the basic human right to choose and be chosen and maybe that's enough reason to vote for this law, because if something like this remains in the existing law, then there is the possibility that we have a mini Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci. So, the Finc case in this area again. The existing law is problematic because it has a radical position indeed in which elected officials, if they are found to be in conflict of interest, cannot run, or their mandate is deleted and cannot and become unsuitable for running for the next four years. And if he did it knowingly, and I'd gladly forbid it, so let it go against human rights, another thing if it wasn't directed, but I'm not sure that people who deal with politics, if they don't know who knows, etc., is in conflict of interest and so on. The Law on conflict of interest is extremely important for strengthening the responsibilities of all elected officials and appointed officials, advisers, but it does not mean anything by itself if there are no regulations, if there are no regulations, and then if you make a regulation, what your colleague Mladen was saying, if you make regulations, then it is not important whether someone is a counselor, whether they are first or 33 generations there and through the Tasbin or I don't know, levirate means husbands, wives and so on. if those regulations don't exist. And the rules should regulate the full political independence of a conflict-of-interest body, I am not sure that any body in BiH has full political independence and then automatically excludes this possibility. Also, regulations should either bring or instruct us to bring an ethical code of conduct to all elected officials, appointed 13 officials, advisers, people working in institutions, it is very important to bring in parallel with this an ethical commission that will monitor all these developments in these bodies. It is very important to ensure the mechanisms for reporting the elements of corruption. We do not have such mechanisms and it is very important to protect those people who point to such irregularities, here we see how much we are fighting the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption, I have even proposed last time in Parliament an initiative to form an anti-corruption commission, a parliamentary commission that will sort of oversee it and so on. It is very important that regulations prevent the migration of public officials from the public sector to the private sector, that people do, that people do, it is very important to prevent the migration of money from, from their own expense to the aunt, I don't know or who, so you know or even people change their names and last names of their closest relatives, so that's what they do. So it doesn't matter if someone is first or 35 knees, no matter if they're a counselor, a elected official, if you don't have those regulations. Unfortunately, this law does not have these regulations and therefore should have one reserve according to the proposed law, but we should also ask ourselves, what happens if this provision threatens the basic human right to choose and be chosen, what happens to this Law whether it will strike us again from the Council of Europe and so on. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1787	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. My kolegica Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1788	Thank you very much. Here, I have also reported through the debate on the discussion of this Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Conflict of Interest, which in any case was agreed by the Interresor Working Group, of course with the fact, which we have brought before this House, when the Law was discussed in the first reading, that Mr Genjac as a member of the Interresor Working Group and as chairman has been fenced by, in some way, from the signing of this Law and release into the procedure for not consulting, means that the advisers have been deleted. Most of the time, I want to say that the Interresor Working Group has managed certain principles, and I really agree with certain views that are in any case in the direction of preventing, to say, conflict of interest, so I would say both corruption and crime are not only real but also potential conflicts of interest. As for the bearer, or advisers, they are deleted from this Law because they are neither the holders of executive functions nor actually elected officials. I would just say that the Interressor Working Group eventually decided in which procedure the law would be put into the parliamentary procedure, then, by handling the principles that it had agreed to a good degree, it wanted to pass the law by an urgent, or by an urgent procedure. And that would mean gentlemen if there were no amendments. But since we had a situation that everyone disagreed, that they had some different attitudes about these laws, I remind you today, all of you who have debated here, that everyone has had the opportunity of a business opportunity to install amendments and to fix this law. So I will really point out once again that certain discussions do not stand, even I seem to be listening carefully, to certain colleagues as if they have not read the amendment and the addition of the Law. I also agree that someone may not be politically in favour of the law, I can also say that I am not absolutely concerned about the fate of this law as a member of the Interresor Working Group. I'm going to contribute in some other way or another way, but I thought these proposed changes were good enough and that we could support them, and that in parliamentary 14 procedures, here's another reading, with certain repairs you've been making today, maybe this would be somewhere for the first reading. But today we should have had concrete amendments to this bill so that we can fix this law in that sense. And I also don't want to discuss this anymore, I want to thank the task force, and I, as a member, actually an authorised member in front of a working group together with my colleague Rodić, had no right to either withdraw or simply question all the efforts put forward by the Interresor Working Group, which is composed of one and the other home, by the Council of Ministers and by a number of other professional associates and advisers in the institutions, here in BiH services. I thank them on this occasion, and I am truly sorry that this kind of effort and effort comes before the House, so let me say it goes to waste. I mean, I think we could have made a contribution to this law so it could just come to life, and this kind of debate is how I see today what his destiny is, and of course this law and all of this is being decided by all of us together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1789	Thank you, colleague Krišto. A colleague of Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1790	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues. Here, let me stop where she ended up for now, Mrs. Krišto. It's not possible, you've made a great effort, but the law that was before you is not possible to fix, because he lives on a hypocritical attitude towards honesty, lives on a particocratic relationship with public functions and this Law, which is the worst, lives on the feeling that this is not in 2012 but that it is '62. We want to accept it or we don't want to accept it, people we live in capitalism. Capitalism has its own legality, capitalism is a pyramidal order in which those who have a good base of family or others come to the top. Where you'll find a high-quality politician if you don't have a father, a mother, a girlfriend, a mother-in-law, or a brother, or a sister, or children, I don't know who's all covered, or have anything, or run anywhere. How are you gonna find a man, I mean what is that? I'm cruelly realistic in politics because I see us sleeping. We are unable to adapt social relations to what citizens expect of us. Who's expecting us, who's asking us to hire? Well, citizens. ministrica Holi resigned in Croatia for this reason. Which one of you didn't get the call and didn't intervene for someone? I don't want to talk in other places. So, come on, people, we want to face the system where we live, the social order, or we're going to have some kind of hypocritical, false social justice to build a personal position that's not responsible for the state of society. The relationship is both anti-capitalistic and anti-socialistic and has only one name: the corruption base. We are asked, what Mr Simić is talking about, according to the current Act, not according to the amendments but under the current Law, and in us it is much more important than this private relation party kinship, who is to whom anything in the party, whether it supports it, whether they have common interests and so on. Of course, this law has no solution to these questions, I don't know any MPs or politicians who did business with their aunt, aunt or cousin. And I know with the godmothers a lot of jobs, there's no godmothers in this law. Let's not talk about other things. Are we building a society and what kind of society are we building? You know what my personal happiness is, personally, is that my parents got me later at 43 and my mom is 82 now, thank Bog I took a knock on a tree, otherwise if it wasn't 15, I'd be in a six-time conflict of interest since, I don't know, my uncles, uncles and so on. were directors of respected companies, politicians and so on. in that system. ... imagine now you have to resign because, I don't know, your uncle was this man who led the construction of the Krško nuclear power plant, he was the director of the hydroelectric power plant there, some part that deals with it. And now in this society, society has to identify whether I'm going to be a politician or he's going to be an engineer. It's pointless, it's clouding reality and throwing dust into people's eyes. For what? I really don't know why, because this law hasn't solved a single problem. What we need in both the RS and the Federation of BiH is the Law on the Origin of Assets, to determine who is how and what is acquired. That according to these laws, whoever has no proof of the origin of the property would return that property to be intoxicated, first of all by the politicians to move on. And if my aunt, my aunt, has some kind of action somewhere that she got in some kind of initialization of a voucher guy or a certificate, so as she thinks now, what I'm about to say to her – don't have any action, what. It's pointless. If you're into harsh reality, if you're up for something to change in this society on the corruption plan, then don't make up this law, even with 50% more provisions than he has, than let us change people. Let's say what is a fundamental conflict of interest. And the solution to these problems is in the Law on Public Procurement and its changes, transparency of public procurement, shortening procedures, preventing commissions from abuse of this and that no one is responsible, but precisely determining the responsibility of the director of the agency, the ministry is responsible for public procurement. So you can see how corruption will be reduced. And you don't form a commission and nothing to anyone. We're where we're supposed to go, or not us, but here's part of the same political process, and we're where we're supposed to make the laws so they're dysfunctional, and where we're playing something out in front of the public, we're going from there to some aunt and aunt having a problem with her actions she's got, let's say I don't know, in some company, in some entity, brother, sister, less important, kids, parents, past work. I think the solution to this is that everything that you've talked about lies in that, one of the next points of the agenda, that's the work of the prosecution, that lies in the amendments to the Public Procurement Act and that it lies in a political responsibility in which everyone is obliged to announce who is with and in what kind of kinship, and whether it affects his performance or does not affect, it should have nothing to do with it, because I assure you that when the godmother is not in the Law of conflict of interest, everyone else is surplus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1791	On behalf of the best man, thank you, colleague Tadić. I'm a colleague of Rodić. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, my colleague Bećirović, the correction of the wrong quote. My colleague Bećirović, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1792	I thank the Honorable Chairman. It could not even be called the correction of the wrong quote or, but I wanted to say something encouraged by my colleague Krišto and counterpart Tadić, you are the management of my colleague Kristo's amendment should have been done, but we agreed to do so by the promoters. That's why I'm changing to this, to this law I didn't invest. I expected that the debate in the first reading would be translated into the amendments to the proposings, given the procedure we had at the House of Representatives, we thought we'd get to the law faster, but obviously we won't get to it now, given the fact that what was in the House of Representatives was. 16 Dear counterpart Tadić, this is not about socialism and capitalism, because you must make sure that capitalism also has different kinds of liberals, to what they call it today in theory, what we have in the eastern countries of socialist, robbery or so on. casino capitalism. In an unregulated country, an unregulated country, anything is possible, in a chaotic state. So we need legal, you're a lawyer and you know it well, that we need a legal system in general and laws that will be applied and implemented in all areas. That's what I was going to say, because definitely not, the theorists didn't call our capitalism a casino or a robbery capitalism.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1793	Thank you, fellow Bećirović. Correction of the wrong quote, fellow Simić. Here's my colleague Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1794	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The exposure of Mr Tadić is now difficult to come to under blame either this one or that one. I agree with Mr Bećirović that the essence of every state, every society is the rule of law and legal certainty. And the fundamental principle of every society is to try as hard as possible, as honestly as possible, as clearly as possible, to regulate certain relationships. One of the relationships is this, this question, and will we be able to regulate it by law and make it comprehensive, to capture all those pores that have opened on the road to corruption. I agree with you that this is necessary and that this circle that is being treated in the law at this point is least painful. It's the most painful relationship in society. And I fully support you, that the key problem of this society is political parties. As long as there is no democracy in the political parties, as long as there are no political parties to what you were talking about, there will be no society. Whether we can regulate it by law, I think we can try, that it's very difficult and complex, but I fully support you, as long as we don't have democratic parties, as long as we don't have parties that are alone within their own institutions, within their political philosophy, provide what you're talking about, the advance will be very difficult, but it must be tried, and even by passing laws that will narrow the space of what you're talking about. I'm glad you opened this question, because it's been with me for a very, very long time. The problem lies in parties that keep running to face democratisation, which keep running to face criminalisation and that do not keep realizing that many have entered these parties, just to achieve what we want to prevent by passing such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1795	Thank you, fellow Simić. I'm a colleague of Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1796	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I want to say a few words, trying not to repeat everything my colleagues have said, but at the same time as one of the promoters with Mrs. Krišto, to remind this House of certain facts and what we've been doing here until today. 17 At the 5th session of the House of Peoples, we have proposed delegates from this body to the Interresor working group, with a certain mandate and with a certain duration. Following the completion of the Interresor Working Group, what was possible was agreed upon and signed by those who could and who agreed with part of the proposed amendments to the Law, of course Mr Genjac, who was also in the Interresor Working Group in charge of the conduct of this process, when it came to the Law of Conflict of Interest, was not a signator, one of the signatories of this proposal. However, many issues have been raised here today, and I wish the Law on conflict of interest in BiH was BiH's biggest problem. Then I think a lot of things could work out a lot easier and faster. It is one of the problems, but we have many bigger ones. Of course, questions and policies and morals and real and normative are opening up, but what I want to say is that I am as a member of the Interressor Working Group, and I mean all my colleagues who worked with me, had the best intentions, that today in this normative environment that we have in BiH, where we have and where we comparatively compared everything that happens in the Law of Conflict of Interest in BiH institutions, we have the Law of Conflict of Interest in the Federation, the Law of Conflict of Interest in the Brcko District, the Law of Conflict of Interest in the RS. And I'm not going to talk about it, there are a lot of solutions that are very conservative, which, after all, if we went into the assessment of constitutionality and legality, would come up with amazing data. But what I look at, and when I see what was the fate of this Law, and I think that from the very beginning of how we entered this story, there was no political consensus and the interest to come to certain laws and to certain qualities, and I think that everything that came after the beginning of the procedure and the regular, basic legislative procedure, everything that could be read, everything that could be heard, was really very difficult to endure, first of all when a man knows that it absolutely doesn't belong to a particular mile, and we started from the fact that there was a legal anarchy, that everything that was created as a word and as a term, and if in one society there was always a responsible person, then we need to imagine ourselves all together. However, I think personally, that the issue of corruption is a much broader issue than the question of the Law of Conflict of Interest and here are colleagues who have spoken, many should be opened, many other issues, many other laws and open-minded talk about them, and perhaps this law on conflict of interest is the tip of the iceberg which may need to solve all this. I'd like to say, on a karate trip, that simply by looking at all this that's been happening around this law, the procedure that was in the House of Representatives, I think that today, if we persisted on this, if this law were to end in the House of Peoples, he would have the same fate again, because as his colleagues said, it would be very difficult to fix it. That is why I think that we have drawn from all this, I hope a lesson, to approach the adoption of a new law that will respect and what we have heard today, to respect and what we have heard from the representatives of the international community, but at the end of my presentation, I would like to remind you of the report that we have received from the Directorate for the Eurypical Integration, which says, in the process of verifying the source of EU law, it is found that the matter that is being regulated by the above-mentioned Bill, amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the insemination of the BiH authorities, is not legally binding acts of the EU, and, in particular, it is not possible to give an assessment of compliance. I will say that I will always stand here for all those laws that are in a certain way anti-corruption, and that are fighting for the introduction of order and rule of law in BiH, and for this reason I will contribute, although it may not be common, that the legislator may be against his law, but this is the Interreos working group law, I hope that next time we will have more luck. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1797	Sure, thank you, fellow Rodić. A kolegica of the Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1798	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, therefore, as a delegate in the House of Peoples, who is famous for esteeming the efforts of my colleagues who have already invested a very long period of time in the making of this Law, want to show thanks to the members of the Working Group for trying to create the text of a law that would indeed be democratic, which would as much as possible cast out the words and the parity with the term legal anarchy. And so, I appreciate your efforts, everything you've done. I appreciate the fact that you've made some positive moves in terms of unifying property records for elected officials and appointed officials, which is not the case so far. I think it's a good move and it's time to say it's for colleagues who worked in the group. The fact that a restraining order has been lifted as a sanction, I personally have my own position on it, and I don't quite agree with that. I may be too strict, but we know about the warnings that came from international officials and from all the countries in Europe where such a ban exists very little. Introducing the possibility of a shift of officials that I personally doubt. I doubt that's gonna happen someday. I'd very much like things like that to happen with us for those who are wrong, who are in conflict with the law, but I don't think that's going to happen with us. The very fact that in the House of Representatives this Law is spinning and moving and living, therefore its parliamentary life in another text, is not encouraging for me, and I would like to, therefore, both in the House of Representatives and in the House of Peoples to work with laws that are equally called. The exact same terminology, same name, and it would be normal to talk about the same laws at the same time. I think why, for me, the proposed text of the law is controversial. So I say again with all due respect for the effort you've made. What I am particularly sensitive to is the issue of a highly discriminatory area of elimination of advisors and close relatives. The fact that they are not subject to conflict, that they are in some way excluded from the possibility of sanctioning, and therefore in their position they are not, therefore, advisers or civil servants, not acceptable to me. I, too, am known as a person who has been rebelling against the privileged position of advisers within BiH institutions for years. And I am very sorry that this proposed text, despite the warnings of the delegates from last session and our inadmissible fact that the advisors are excluded, I am very sorry that you left them, in the second reading, the function of the counselors, that you did not listen to the intensities that came from this House. I think it's very harmful to eliminate close relatives. And therefore, I dare say that this law is not an anti-corruption law, and its intention was to be such that it became a clean, corrupt law, which in the already corrupt country of BiH, which is on a scale of corrupt countries today or yesterday in 81th place, that I heard that report, which is a very high place, on a scale of 180 countries observed as in the trial group, I think we did make one law that is pure corruption law. On your point that we should have fixed it in amendment, I agree with the distinguished colleagues, it was very difficult to fix such a bad text in the amendment form, because with most of the proposed things we disagree. What it represents, therefore, is the biggest problem for me is the fact that the amendments to the law are mainly aimed at providing additional benefits to public officials and I dare say, legalising conflicts of interest in terms of easing sanctions for 19 public officials. By doing so, the Law completely loses its meaning. The question then arises, what is really a conflict of interest, as my distinguished counterpart Tadić said. This solution therefore seeks to ensure, instead of introducing the principles of responsibility, elected and appointed officials, that the future, on no basis, they are not responsible for the offences committed, especially when it comes to their close relatives, and we are familiar with examples of practices, when examples are proven, that is, abuses of position and when a number of officials are sanctioned because of the fact that they used their close relatives, including friends, for illegal wealth. What particularly bothers me is the intention that has been going on lately in BiH, by various pro-legals and members of different political parties, which is the fact that individual and party interests are put ahead of the BiH state's interest, all with the aim of providing additional material benefits to officials. And, I dare say, an almost complete amnesty is being introduced for conflict of interest. And that's what creates legal uncertainty within the Bosnian-Herzegovina civil society. What concerns me is my discreet suspicions and the question of whether there is, in some discreet way, an almost inconspicuous, disenfranchisement of the Central Election Commission? I'd like someone to answer that. And I agree with my colleague that this will all result, a text like this that will result in the award of political elites and I think it is. That's what worries me very much. Already overpaid officials will be rewarded. I dare say from this place and not a populist story, all elected officials in BiH and elected, have been appointed, very much overpaid for their work, and in this way with the proposed text, we allow them to create both additional earnings and additional benefits. I want to say, therefore, from this place, that I think it would be much better if an agreement had been reached at the level of political parties, that such a bad law would be withdrawn from the procedure and that it would be allowed to approach the new law. It's better not to have any law than to have a bad law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1799	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. We've exhausted the debate on this agenda point. I don't see any interest in applications. I'm closing the debate. We're voting on the bill. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attendance 15 - for no one, 9 versus, 6 abstentions. Federation of BiH 4 against, 6 abstentions, RS 5 against. We don't have the general majority. I find the Law amending and supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions has not been adopted. Thank you. We're moving to the point of five today's agenda, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners and asylum (first reading) This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. At the 32nd session held on 19 July this year, the House of Representatives adopted 20 Proposals for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum in the first reading. You have received the opinion of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and the ethics of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. The commission has accepted the principles of the bill. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if there is any need? _________(?) [[(no microphone(s) turned on/]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1802	Thank you. I have a need very briefly, given that we are talking about the principles of the law, really to thank the legislators of the law, for the quality of the law, the reasoned and the effort made to bring all our regulations in this area in line with certain EU directives and the conventions that bind us. So, a huge effort has been made. I mean, and the law is extremely high-quality and ultimately achieves that key goal, that all those obligations we've made to a large extent by this law, and the proposal of this law, we meet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1803	Thank you, Genjac. We don't have any more charges to argue with. If we have any interest, we have time. A colleague of Tadić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1804	So I'm doing this without consulting the club and I'm sure they won't be surprised. I'd like to read your opinion from the RS regarding this law. Not to bother you, but to tell you that RS is always well-intentioned and positively accepts everything that is in the interest of both entities and all three peoples. And here's what would be best if every law that comes through here had an opinion. This is what the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia sent. After considering the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Movement and residence of residents and asylum, we believe that it does not affect the jurisdiction of the RS and that it is not contrary to the positive regulations. We believe that the proposed amendments and additions to that law are relevant because they improve existing legal solutions. We do not have any further proposals and remarks that would make the bill better for the interest of the RS. Signed by Minister Stanislav Čađo. 21 Behold, if every solution that comes before us can provide this kind of support, I think it will be the right way for BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1805	Thank you very much, fellow Tadić. We no longer have any discussion or interest in the debate. There could be a lot of replicas and other reflections now, but I can see we won't. Thank you very much. We're concluding the debate that there are no more reports. We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please initiate voting procedure. Attending 14 — for 14. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 5 – all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I agree with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Movement and residence of foreigners and asylum was adopted in the first reading. Thank you very much. We're going to the six-day agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Ministrys and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH As this is the first reading of the bill, as referred to in Article 100. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the draft law is based. At the 32nd session, held on 19 July, the House of Representatives adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH administration in the first reading. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Committee of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. The commission has accepted the principle of the bill. I give my word to the legislators of the law if there is any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1809	I apologize for being a little boring with this subject, and obviously I am boring, but you have to understand me why I can't give up on this subject for a thousand and one reason. I have to say that the D.A., unlike the Court, has written something. At least he wrote how many cases the foreign prosecutors got and received and at least here we know some framework of what they were doing. But their answer shows that everyone is afraid to say anything about strangers. You can see that, and everyone's running away from it like a devil from a cross. People, this is a Parliament where we need to discuss the effects of a major move by foreign prosecutors, one, in my opinion, a major move that had a positive aim of bringing in experts, serious people from the judiciary and from international institutions to help a country that came out of the war to impose order and law on its territory, and it turned into hiring half-mad people from OHR, completely incompetent, who never dealt with the prosecution and the court, and from one good idea all of this turned into taking care of international officials. And now no one can say anything about it. And I'd say for them, the mass of our serious judges and prosecutors didn't even get the consent to do that job, whoever had some minority attitudes were driving people off that kind of activity, and they were untouchable. And no one can say anything. I really think, so that you don't get bored again, I suggest that the conclusion be that we withdraw our conclusion on the information on the work of foreign prosecutors and judges with an explanation that we are 23 unable to obtain that information. So, not about some case, not about some particular situation, but about something that would be completely natural for this Parliament to get - Information on the work of foreign prosecutors and judges, who have spent a lot of years here, tasked the mass of objects here, to see what effect it is, we can't get that. We can't. And I don't think we'll ever win. It's the only possible attempt by the OHR to come out and say something on the subject as someone who can talk about it, and we can't all talk about it. And in the past, the foreigners were very much talking about us, and giving reviews of both us and the MPs and replacing and setting up, solving, and we are now the one elemental thing called Information on the work of foreign prosecutors and judges can't get like, let's Parliament the highest institution of BiH for a year now. And I doubt we'll ever have it. And so I really ask that, here's to think, but this proposal concludes that we are withdrawing our conclusion that we are looking for information with only one vote, I will vote for it with one explanation, that we are unable to get it, because no one in this House respects it, and in principle it can go any way you want. I purposely said this because the conclusion was made last time on the BiH Prosecutor's Office's work talks. My position was then – until I get it, I will not support the reports until I get that kind of analysis. Let's at least make it some kind of protest of me as an MP that one elemental thing, which in every other country would be completely normal, we can't get these. Why? Because of the fear of strangers. Because of the fear that one of them, if I say something wrong, that I'm being relieved, solved, accused, courted, I don't know what I don't know. I guess we as delegates need to have and stand behind something that is completely, completely, completely normal. But I ask that my conclusion with this argument be put to the end of the vote. To put out our conclusions because we are unable to provide information.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1810	Thank you, colleague Ivanić, but we are already having a debate. I'm a colleague of Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1811	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unlike Mr Ivanić, I believe that this answer contains everything that needs to be contained in it, which is a message that we are so far away from the independent judiciary for miles, miles and thousands of miles, because that is precisely what it shows that we do not have an independent judiciary, that we cannot even get the data that are banal from the point of view that it is about past time. This report also speaks of us because a debate has recently been held here whether or not we need foreign judges and prosecutors. I remember that maltene was a state issue, a question of assault on BiH's legal system. Those who supported it defended BiH, and they did not understand or have no insight or courage, as there is no Tužilašto today, to see the role of foreign prosecutors and judges in the bh system. As Mr Ivanić said - half-written, people who did not pass the street where the court was, were prosecutors who were untouchable. The chief prosecutor complained to me that he must not speak publicly in court, that he is afraid to be listened to. Are we building a system in BiH in which the chief prosecutor, the formal first man of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, is afraid of half-written foreigners left behind by Petrič and who were involved there. Then we should have recognized that situation and said thank you. 24 We had a good idea, as Mr. Ivanić said, you may have had, but on the way to the realization of this idea you did disastrous things. And today we have foreign prosecutors in the War Crimes Department. After this I ask the question to you and to myself. Do we need them, do we need them? If we succeed in this question to get an answer, perhaps we will give the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the entity's prosecutor's office that they get the strength, to get support that they can be independent, that we may also seek some principled views. And we were just asking these people to do their job. It's terrible to read this letter from which you can see no one should have looked at them, no one should have asked them, he shouldn't have estimated how they did it. And recently we've had a harder time, so this is an attack on BiH, which we're removing from the legal system, the justice system of such a person who realized that this is, I don't know what, that they came here from some planet that they can teach us lessons, that they can even fail us today. There were funny, tragic scenes by these prosecutors. We were saying that these prosecutors were the instrument of a process in which many acquittals fell. I happened in the D.A.'s office the day he was arrested, when I must mention him, Mirko Šarović. The chief prosecutor was shocked because he didn't know about the arrest of a member of the presidency. For God's sake, do you know what it is? The D.A. doesn't know what's going on in his prosecution, and we have gods that we built ourselves, we support. And after all, when the situation calms down in Bosnia, when it becomes, let me say, an organized state will see the consequences that remain behind Pedi Eždaun. Huge consequences. There is no need or fear of data being delivered, those we discussed before, and in the BiH Prosecutor's Office, they can easily have them. It is only to provide information about the charges they dropped, so to speak, the foreign prosecutors accused so many people, and the charges were dropped. After that, we paid so much of the cost of the procedure. Well, after that, we paid so much damage. So you're going to... the picture that we may have been able to equip two courts, three courts, four or more courts with electronic equipment, computers, for as much as we've paid for their mistakes. Those in BiH have not taken oaths in the system. Imagine you insult a country, enter its justice system, and you won't take an oath. And even such nonsense was to stop a man's brain. They were not prosecutors, they were international prosecutors, and when you read the reports when they are represented they say -- the international prosecutor and that one. Please find the BiH legal system to write an international prosecutor. Well, that doesn't say it in the tribunal either, that's the International Criminal Court's prosecutor. So, but that with... international they were looking for an alibi that they could conduct procedures in which, I don't know, 14 defendants -- 13 were released, 1 was convicted. And being convicted is a shame. Look, I'm not saying, even in this room, there are people who have been victims of the establishment of the rule of law and an independent judicial system in BiH. They were similar at the High Court and Prosecutorial Council, and then they went to court. I think the case has been tried by a man who was a coroner in London. We checked his CV. The coroner, you know, is the lawyer who issued that certificate that someone died. They have done great damage to BiH. And it would be good to get that information here, to hear them, to tell them, not because we can make it right, we can't, it should be a satisfaction to people who have been victims of such proceedings, on the one hand, and to learn a lesson that in the future, we're smart enough if we organize ourselves and if we want to, to be top judges, top prosecutors, top lawyers, top-notch delegates. We just need to want and believe that we can do it much better than many of those who have been taking huge numbers of money here by selling us fog. Thank you. 25
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1812	Thank you, fellow Simić. A fellow Košarac player.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1813	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, guests, I would like to welcome you. What is worrying is that the current information on the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office has never given us a clear message from the domestic capacities employed by the prosecution and the BiH Court of Justice about the problems they face. We can only justify this if we say that there is obviously one large dose of fears of different character precisely from those who elect prosecutors and judges at BiH level, or in general in BiH. I would correct Mr., in part Mr. Ivanić who said he had, that there are fears of strangers. First of all, there are fears of OHR. ... apparently dominant in the process of electing prosecutors and judges in BiH. That's a fact. It is devastating for this country today that it has no quality information from the country's institution. It is the defeat of all of us, the defeat of this system here, that we repeatedly ask for someone to provide us with information about what the role is and what the results of the work of foreign prosecutors in the BiH Prosecutor's Office are. I think this is the second or third time we've talked about it that we have nothing but statistical indicators. I think this is another one, I would say, a failure by OHR and the international community to build on this concept relations in BiH such as the failure of those who found partners in foreign prosecutors in BiH. That's a much bigger problem. I do not believe that anywhere in the world there is such an impact on the international factor of foreign prosecutors and judges as it is in BiH. Does this country have a chance to stand up? If this is the case with the D.A.'s office, then it's disturbing. Apparently, many institutions are hostages to the role of high representative, OHR and some others. Of course, not all foreigners are malicious and there are good intentions among them, and that should be emphasized here... I'll just say... war crimes. I have here a review of the role of foreign prosecutors as of 18.07.2012. It is symptomatic that in a particular geographical area, where Article 171 is concerned. The BiH Penal Code, on the prosecutor's team, is 1:1 and in the Judicial Council 3:2. So, of the three judges, two are foreigners and prosecutors are 1:1 ratio. Even in some case when he's a member of 172. The criminal law has a situation, I'll give you one example, it's an X-RZ-06/200 case where two prosecutors are foreigners, there's not one domestic, and a long-term prison sentence has been imposed. And of course in the council of judges is the relationship of two strangers and one domestic judge. That's enough talking about that there's some kind of selective need and selective justice here. I wouldn't want to present a certain other kind of data to avoid causing a reaction. I don't want to get into the essence of all these cases, but I'm saying that's the problem of this country. In the end, I would disagree with Mr Ivanić if we could make one conclusion that we were not capable. I think we need a broader discussion on this issue. BiH citizens pay for the work of the BiH Prosecutor's Office and not all citizens are satisfied. We also see it through the adoption of this information. We pay for such selective justice, we pay for this kind of relationship, which is obviously not good. I believe this country must find a solution. Therefore, I am not inclined to conclude that we are not capable, but to say that there are clearly certain reports that first of all present to OHR and to some other foreigners in this country, not domestic capacities, domestic resources, and definitely this endangers our relationship and our stability within BiH itself. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1814	Thank you, fellow Košarac player. I'm a colleague of the Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1815	Honorable delegates, ladies and gentlemen. I would agree with those who say that this is a good idea to bring into the court and the prosecution of foreign prosecutors and judges, especially when it comes to war crimes, so here if you want organized crime, that this is one, given our opportunities when we made such a decision and everything, that it was a good idea that normally, as well as other good ideas often in realisation, is not achieved what was wanted by that idea. We can hardly conclude here now, or any view of whether these prosecutors are good or bad. On the basis of some concrete examples, we can conclude one or the other. I think we should ask here in the front row for the report to be completed with all those elements containing the home prosecutors' reports. First of all, the passing of public prosecutorial decisions. I remember when I was a prosecutor, we analyzed passing every three months. Someone can't be a prosecutor if at the end of the year there's a large number of negative public prosecutorial decisions. And that's very important, and when we finally assess the work of this D.A., or foreign prosecutors. These certain now findings in the sense that our prosecutors were afraid to walk in the halls, talk in the offices, so they shouldn't be prosecutors if they're so scary. But this is certain, it confirms one other positive thing that we did have independent judges who had the strength, the courage to stand up against such prosecutorial decisions that didn't have enough evidence to find guilty, or condemnation. Yet here the judges have shown one independence, they have shown in the extreme case, what you're saying, that they're not afraid because they've been indicted by a foreign prosecutor. And that's good, that's good at all of this when we observe the joint work of the Court and the D.A., that the judges have shown one their independence and one their independence. We know that there have been a lot of these cases from members of the Bureau who have been accused to, I don't know, ministers and so on, who ended up with negative outcomes, or liberating, negative outcomes in terms of prosecution decisions and acquittal judgments. For such large cases, there is certainly no excuse and this is negative in relation to the final assessment of the work of the prosecution, especially since often these indictments have treated people in very high positions, and this has had a negative impact on the work of these institutions and the entire public. But I'm not in favour of us here right now, here's something special, or we're criticizing, nor normally to praise the work of the D.A., I'm here to draw one conclusion that we're going to ask for a supplement of the report with all those elements that we need to have. ... an idea, and I say especially when it comes to war crimes, it was a time when ours, so to speak, entity, cantonal and I don't know these prosecutors and courts didn't have enough courage and strength, I don't know, was such a political situation, to make decisions and judge. However, we see lately that, no matter what court it is, whether it was tried in Banja Luka, Sarajevo, I don't know, Mostar, and no matter which judge judges, so here in Belgrade and so on, that yet our courts are increasingly trained to make such judgments, or before that, public prosecutorial decisions. 27 But behold, it is my suggestion that this debate may be interrupted in some way, that we give the final statement only after this report has been completed with all the information that has been delivered to the local prosecutors. I'm primarily referring to the passing of public prosecutorial decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1816	Thank you, colleague Tihić. He's a colleague of Ivanic's.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1817	Well, I agree with that part of Mr. Tihić's debate where he said he had, it's true, there are judges who ended it all right in the end. And you know what goes through that? It goes through all sorts of things, goes through situations where in the first round you have to be key, at least one of the key people in the Serb people's order is tried by a council of two Bošnjak and one foreigner, and sued by a foreigner. You know, a smart man would never do that. But I don't want to go into that detail. I'm not even gonna say that all the foreign prosecutors were bad. On the contrary, I think it was very good. But someone needs to tell us what the effects of the work are, that we're not talking by heart or by you. And I still don't understand this House why it's not, that it's not able to get information about what the effects of a key political decision we've made are. I was about for strangers to come as key men. I did, and I always thought we would, but to get the right people. And the moment it turned into the employment of OHR officials, when the OHR started talking about cases, and there was talk. I was told by a high representative that the cases in OHR were discussed. Well, sometimes people have to say that somewhere because of one general experience. And it can't be a blow against the international community, not against the wishes, but rather against, here if I can use one word, the Stalinist cases that were formed. For if we close our eyes on it, as messengers and delegates, then what are we? And that's the essence of one abuse, political abuse, not everything, but especially in strangers it was. There are even deprived responsibilities, these people. But there were politically defined goals that were once and at some point needed to be done. Well, it's not normal for ESFOR to film people in this country. That ESFOR, not domestic institutions, is filming people by order of a foreign prosecutor, following them, listening. Well, people, we want it, if we're really gonna accept it that way and let it be for us. I passed one of those tests. But I'm telling you honestly it's not good for the system, it's not good for our people who were trying there, and there were mass, to introduce a little order. So let's be realistic. The way they chose is that these people simply had to, they were forced to uncomment only them with their head a little bit, the bandheads had the courage to say that to strangers, most of them went along a line of less resistance, shut up, let go. It's that it's all stupid, but shut up, let it pass, let it bring its own time. I don't agree with my colleague, Tihić, that I don't need to talk about it, if I understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1818	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1819	Well, then I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1820	I said we should talk, we just have to have arguments. 28
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1821	Well, we're looking for a year of documents, so I'm looking for them. I'm not going to say it's all negative there, either, but someone needs to write down what's right, what's wrong, and what's the lesson in that. Someone finally has to. Well, I guess one day someone will be able to provide it for a future experience. Because if it's okay, I'll be back for the foreign prosecutors to come, if it's okay. But my opinion is that it was a major political abuse, perhaps the greatest political abuse and perhaps the greatest blow to the independence of the prosecution and the Court of Justice from the shit of some parts of the international institutions that used it for political accounts.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1822	Mr Dragan Čović, chairman of the House of Peoples, answered the words. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1823	Thank you very much. Well, here's a nice greeting to all our colleagues, our guests. I think it is a great benefit, although we wait a year for a particular report, but we are still talking about the prosecution now, and the foreigners in the prosecution, and the judiciary at all in the court and so on, and we are even getting into the details of certain cases during this time, but I personally think that this proposal, which Mr Tihić made, went in favour of today not taking a break to define the conclusions but to buy a little time in peace so that we can define the conclusions, in that sense I realized, in that sense, that we do not conclude today's debate, nothing more than to tell ourselves today that we are not able, as the largest legislative body in this country, the Upper House of this Parliament, to make communication with someone responsible for the rule of law or should be a pillar of BiH rule with all of law. And on the other hand, I see again the enormous benefit of the fact that we've been discussing this for a year, even the way we discussed it. Because imagine if someone dared come out of a pay phone five years ago and talk about a stranger in the D.A. in a way, here's how we talk today. And these are the realities of BiH. I did not answer for a word for practical reasons and possible objectivity or subjectivity in this whole story in order to touch any concrete examples, but I also think it is very important from this speaker to send a very clear message to protect all those honest, correct, innocent, who are also the other pillar of the BiH judiciary... and not to overshadow their work by the minority or I do not know how many most of them who have acted and worked and processed and managed politically and entertained the BiH public, and not only the BiH public for the last, I don't know, but maybe 10 years. And I think it's also worth saying when we talk about these people. Bog forbid we don't have strangers anymore. I hope Mr. Ivanić didn't mean it when he was talking about calling some strangers back. Because if we are not able to organise the system of this state, including this segment of the judiciary government, then we are opening many other issues about BiH as a regulated state. I am in favour of setting very clear standards and frameworks in which all of us should behave, and we have just seen how we discussed the Law on Conflict of Interest and how far we have a stretching approach to what we should also find some offence or crime tomorrow and what someone should discuss whether it is in the spirit of the legislative framework that we have in BiH today. 29 In other words, I will be very free in one assessment, which I do not want to hurt anyone, but it would be about this from my personal attitude and involvement in this political arrangement and monitoring this in the last 12-13 years, that what we had at that time was a disaster for BiH and for a legal picture of BiH. Here, we have a minister of justice here, which is also because several times something has commented on the call for a hearing as a minister of justice to say what he meant by it, but not to talk about these hidden or hidden microphones, or I don't know who's already setting them up, orders etc. It's all a picture that should allow our prosecutors and a more correct way to work, as well as a space to work. Well, even the fact that we don't have a chief prosecutor, here's the last two top prosecutors leaving their post the way they leave, and we could talk about hundreds of other cases right now. I personally believe that we have an opportunity through our work, here in this House, to improve the work and judicial institutions of BiH and prevent any form of abuse, whether it binds with the OHR according to our judiciary, the prosecution, the judges, and so on. Look, we still have today, not the foreigners just stayed in this segment of war crimes, we have in the BiH Constitutional Court foreigners. And we have repeatedly commented that their key decision is either a key voice when decisions are made that share us with regard to some thinking, which we still have in BiH, and we will still have. But what I find inadmissible is that we are in the future making the conclusions that I have in my head today, that the BiH judiciary is not independent, or is always dependent on someone. And I would like to really end both our prosecutors and our judges at every level of organisation, which needs to be reorganised, put in the context of BiH's needs, to the end independent of every politician, but also from anyone else in BiH. To be professionals who will have adequate compensation for what they are doing and have adequate status in a society no one will invoke, but who will also need no one outside these parliamentary procedures to submit... legislative regulations to submit reports on certain cases, i.e. that some cases are being considered in any cabinets and institutions far from BiH's judicial institutions, take a stand and then initiate procedures. Then we certainly won't have a chance, what counterpart Tihić says, as an experienced prosecutor, a pre-war prosecutor, that someone who has 1, 2, 5, or I don't know how many percentages, of the cases he has processed and that lasted a year, especially when it comes to capitalists, because we've been called in the past ten years. And imagine what kind of entertainment we've had through the media, we can do peltons, and for some items you can bury this hall here, you don't believe it, but it's really like that, media reports and everything that was done there. But if we've come to the conclusion that it's past time and that we can turn to something new today, then we've done it again. And that is why I say once again I am not to conclude that, that is to say, for the excessively quick conclusion that I am here to degrade what we have tried to do, and we, like this House in the last two years, have been looking for a debate like this, but here I will also ask later through the debate if there is no more debate, and today we do not formally conclude them, because we can do it in a business way, not to seek a break so that we do something improvising here, because there is one conclusion we have Mr. Ivanić, the other was Mr. Tihić, but to make a concept in peace through the College, our joint work, our conclusions, so that at the next session of Dom, we can then discuss this conclusion and make it clear about him. I say once again, first of all, to ensure that in BiH the judiciary is fully independent of anyone and that we finally start to build a legal state of BiH. Thank you very much. My kolegica Krišto. Here you go. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1824	Thank you very much. Here, today on the agenda we have information on the work of the prosecution, of course with the intensity and according to the conclusion, as we have heard, on the work or effects of domestic and foreign prosecutors. Of course, from this report that we have received, i.e. information, according to the realisation, it means that this conclusion could simply ask us all here what we are discussing today when, and what is mentioned here, we all know that the Prosecutor's Office is functioning by the basis of the Law on High, or established by the Law on High, Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, meaning it is appointed, it corresponds to it, and operates by the basis of the Law on Prosecution imposed by the High Representative, and of course it has passed the parliamentary procedure. When it comes to foreign prosecutors, it would not be repeated with colleagues, I would add only one thing, that what we have today means the basis of these laws is, in my opinion, the biggest failure of the international community, and it concerns both the organisation and the responsibility, i.e. the establishment of an independent and impartial judiciary in general in BiH, especially when we have in mind that such laws have been established at lower levels when it comes to justice, i.e. the courts of organisational and prosecution. So I rightly wonder how fellow prosecutors feel at lower levels, whether there is trust in them and whether there are those who act on behalf of BiH in relation to that, here are foreign prosecutors introduced into the BiH system as someone with greater trust, as someone who should establish independence, etc., to protect BiH. I personally think that we need to take responsibility, and in a system like this and the organisation of justice, we can't do that. I also support what President Čović has now said, it might not be good to conclude the debate, but I was simply thinking, before this session itself on this point, and also here while the debate was being held, on a certain matter, and I think that if we want to do something, I think we should go with a proposal for conclusions on amendments and addition of the Law on High Court and Prosecutorial Council in a way that separates the courts from, meaning judges from prosecutors, because prosecutors are one party in the process and until so long as one institution is none of us, to say, can fully believe that there is something called an independent judiciary. In this respect, it should also go with the amendments to the Law on Courts and Amendments to the Law on Prosecutors which would also make a different reorganisation, i.e. the judiciary and the prosecution. Here, on the trail, how now and the talks in the structural dialogue are going, meaning respecting BiH's current jurisdiction, and also in order for more high-quality courts and prosecutors to be filled in by the human race, and all, I say, with one purpose, and that is, as already mentioned here many times, and that is the establishment of an independent and impartial judiciary and the construction of BiH as a rule of law so that, once again, I think that if we want to take responsibility, and that is necessary because here we see that the chief prosecutor does not assess foreign prosecutors, and that the assessment of domestic prosecutors is submitted to the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, which, when we consider, you know and ourselves, we receive and do not receive knowledge, has no effects. So, once again I withdraw, we should go with a proposal for a conclusion in terms of amending the Law on High Court and Prosecutor's Council, amending the Law on Courts and the Law on Prosecution. Thank you very much. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1825	Thank you, colleague Krišto. There's no more discussion, or application, and I don't see any interest in reporting, so that's how today's part of the debate, here's what we're going to say, so in that direction and in conclusion, at least my conclusion, we're going to conclude. Since we had a concrete, written proposal from counterpart Ivanić about putting aside the conclusion that we had previously made, since we had one approach that counterpart Tihić said here, and I was also already from the pay phone, in the spirit of what you were talking about here, and I will ask you just to listen carefully, to see if it is possible to incoply this into a common position today. So since we have the content and scope of the document that we have received from the Prosecutor's Office that we have twice asked for on behalf of this body and taking care of all the discussions that we have had several times in this honorable House here, I suggest that by the next session of the House, we do not seek any time to agree on the conclusions now so that the College can draw conclusions based on all these discussions and the documents delivered and that we discuss this conclusion at the next session and then adopt it or not adopt it as such. Do you agree with this approach? _________(?) /no microphone involved/ Thank you very much. Then we don't even have to make a statement about this, it's enough to keep it this way. We move to the final point of today's agenda, Ad. 8. BiH Attorney General's Office's report for the period 01.01.2011 to 31.12.2011, BiH Ombudsman's material
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1828	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. During the debate on the Ombudsman's Report for the period 01.01.2011 until 31.12.2011 we had one information that this report was not covered by the Council of Ministers. In view of the nature of the defence work, given the nature of relations with the ministry, we felt that the Council of Ministers was an excellent address to deal with this report, and only after this report was dealt with by the Constitutional Commission, or the House of Peoples. Therefore, we have proposed this conclusion, given that the report contains a number of shortcomings, 32 given that the report raises a number of questions, both as regards normative arrangements, as regards... protection of state property, the issue of payment, claims arising from criminal convictions, and therefore it has come to this conclusion that today is not discussed, and that this report is forwarded to the Council of Ministers that they give their views in the sense of this conclusion and that we are only then discussing this Report.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-25-0.u1829	Thank you, fellow Simić. I still have to inform you that the House of Representatives at the 32nd session, held on 19th of this year, did not adopt this report. Now about the opinion, or conclusion that we have now heard from fellow Simić, I will read it once more because we will declare it as such. The conclusion is - The Constitutional Commission proposes that the House of Peoples ask the Council of Ministers of BiH to, in accordance with Article 18. The Law on BiH's Defence, the report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman, and draws conclusions with special reference to measures to protect state property and other issues in the Report. That is the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I don't see any interest in the application. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we vote, meaning the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission that we just heard here in full form here. Please initiate voting procedure related to this conclusion. Thank you very much. Attending 13 - all for. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 4 – all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find the conclusion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been adopted. Dear colleagues, we conclude the work of the 20th session, but today we also have a Joint Session which is at 4:45 p.m., where we will have the address of UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in the White Hall, so I'll see you there at 4:45 p.m. Thank you very much. Session completed at 13:40 p.m.
