ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1364	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of Ministers, deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 16th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 14 envoys present, 5 of them from the Bosniak people, 4 from the Croatian people, 5 from the Serb people. Mr. Martin Raguž is for justifiable reasons challenged from today's session. For the 16th session, I propose the next Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 15th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 2. Answers to envoys' questions and new envoys' questions; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the BiH institutions following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 01,02-02-1-22/12 of 24.05.2012; 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of Bosnia and Herzegovina following an urgent procedure, also in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 01,02-02-1-23/12 of 24.05.2012; 5. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2012 (first reading), delivered by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions (first reading), a proposal: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1 17/12, since 08.05.2012. This is a harmonised agenda of the House of Peoples College, but allow me another supplemental information along this agenda. I would like to inform you that at the 17th session of the House of Nations held on 29th, the College of the Peoples decided to assign the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH to submit a report on the amendment I to the Constitution of BiH, which was adopted in its first reading at the 47th session of the House of People, held on 05.10.2005. The College of the People's House also decided that the 2th Amendment I proposal at the BiH Constitution is being discussed at the 18th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Do we have any comments on the agenda, anyone answering for a word? Thank you very much. If not, since there is no vote on the agenda, in accordance with Article 60, we believe that the agenda has been adopted. Moving to the point of one agenda, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 15th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word on the record? Not reported, no interest. We're closing the debate. I suggest we vote on the record, please initiate the voting procedure. Thank you. Attending 14, all in favor. Federation of BiH 9, all for. RS 5, all in favor. There's a general and entity majority. I am establishing the minutes of the 15th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH was adopted. We move on to the two agendas of today's session, Ad. 2. Answers to Envoys' Questions and Envoys' Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1367	...representatives of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the media, ladies and gentlemen. I have two delegate issues addressed to the BiH Council of Ministers. First – What measures are the BiH Council of Ministers taking in order to bring the number of border crossings for the transport of goods of plant and animal origin in line with the real needs of BiH? My second question – At what stage is the Action Plan for overcoming the implications of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to BiH? I'd like a written answer. Thank you. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1368	Thank you to my colleague, Kapetanović. The next one was answered by counterpart Krešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1369	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Croatia's entry into the EU on 01.07.2013 could be catastrophic for BiH, a story of border crossings - beeps, so-called beeps, meaning border crossings where animal and plant goods will be exported, must be a story of technical problems that BiH must meet to make these border crossings functional. In no case are these political problems, especially the problems that Croatia and the EU would make for us. So in 2013 in the seventh month over these border crossings, those two border crossings are probably not going to have anything to export if this remains the condition, we can export some fish and some fresh skin. In order for this not to happen, BiH institutions responsible for doing their job should do it, to meet all assumptions, that products that go through these border crossings must meet EU standards, standards prescribed by the EU, in order to meet these products and can be exported to the EU market. When you look at a total of about 50 million euros in such goods, it is not a small amount, given that in these amounts there are milk producers, that there are small milk producers, that there are over 20 thousand. And not to mention how much longer, which means that the food products are produced and exported to the EU, which would mean for the citizens of BiH. This introduction I had to say that indeed every session must be used to make BiH institutions serious and that everyone is doing their job, and here I particularly appeal to the Council of Ministers to encourage all those who are obliged to carry out their duties, to carry out their obligations in order to do so on 01 July 2013. BiH has welcomed the EU's border at its border as soon as possible. The European Commission has also set out the conditions and standards under which food products can enter the EU market by Regulation 178/2002. We have well-founded bodies that will carry out accreditation, but those bodies, the Institute of Accreditation and the Institute, the Institute does not have the appropriate international verification. In 2010, an activity was launched to obtain an appropriate international certificate from European accreditation, yet not the Institute, has not received such verification, and that means additional costs for all food products producers wishing to export to the EU market or to third countries via the EU. I would like to say that the Council of Ministers and the relevant institutions encourage and see what the problem is, why no agreement with the European accreditation is signed, that the relevant bodies, the relevant institutes and in BiH are certified to be able to verify domestic laboratories so that they can monitor these producers. And that means that food producers have to submit so-called food products. ISO standards to monitor the production process from beginning to consumption. This practice is now not in BiH and we are obliged to comply with EU standards. My envoy's question is – at what stage is the Multilateral Agreement prepared between the Institute for Accreditation of BiH and European Accreditation? Thank you very much. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1370	Next question, colleague Ivanic. Here's your colleague Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1371	Thank you very much. Here we are going to have a debate today on the Budget, and it was all kind of a quick and horucous system, so my question goes – Are some civil society institutions asking whether a framework budget is being prepared and whether the Council of Ministers will complete its commitment by June as provided for in the acts? That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1372	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. We don't have any more questions, thank you very much. That concludes point 2. We're moving on to the third day of today's agenda, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the BiH institution following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 01,02-02-1-22/12 of 24.05.2012 You have received a request from the Council of Ministers to consider the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in the BiH institutions following a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. At the 28th session of this year, the House of Representatives adopted the Law on Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions following a hasty procedure. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? kolegica Kapetanović, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1374	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since the Council of Ministers proposes to consider the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the BiH institutions by emergency procedure, I, as a delegate from the Party of Democratic Action at the Bush People's Club, must explain why I am against an emergency procedure. The basic reason is the reason for the law. The legislator of the Law in the light of the law among the reasons for the adoption of the Law states that the reason for the adoption of the Law is the conclusion of Parliament which obliges the Council of Ministers to prepare the draft law covering both MPs and delegates in the Parliamentary Assembly. This is cited as a reason, instead of logical to really explain or to go to a reduction in wages with some quantification of effects, financial or possibly a total range of different categories covered by the Payments Act. There's no such reason in this explanation. 5 It is also said in the explanation of the proposed solutions in Article 1 – that they are specified coefficients. It's not very common that there's no point in writing, when you say it. that a member who reads so and so is changed, and instead in the future text it will read so and so. It would be good if the motionary would explain to us what is ultimately obtained by such a solution. Since reductions are expected around 4.5% are very symbolic changes. From this comes the question – What is the result of such solutions, is it not and why it could not have been more detailed in the quantification or redistribution of all these groups covered by the Law on Salaries? I would like to remind you that this issue dates back to 2008 when the Pay Law was passed. Four years later, almost the same way as previously foreseen with practically the same 8.7 coefficients for the chairman, 8.5 for the president of the commission, 8.40 for MPs and delegates in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I also want to say that what is being treated by Article 39a. It's actually a cobweb. It's left to the Administrative Commission to regulate it, and it already has a decision on the pausal. It was certainly necessary in the parliamentary debate to review the coefficients, as we in the U.S.A. consider them to be very high, particularly important to review the issue of parliamentary pauses. We believe that MPs who are professionally engaged and have a salary should not have a flat. This should all have been carefully provided for in the Law, and therefore this item of the agenda should be considered by regular rather than by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1375	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. There are no more reported, thank you very much. We're closing the debate. We vote on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions under the hasty procedure in accordance with Article 122. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 14, for 10, v. 3, abstention 1. From the Federation of BiH for 6, against 3. From RS 4 for and 1 abstention. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I am finding a request from the BiH Council of Ministers to discuss the draft law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions following a hasty procedure. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports, I don't see any interest in the application. We're closing the debate. 6 We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on Salary and Compensation in the Institutions of BiH after a hasty procedure. Please initiate procedure, thank you. Attending 14, for 10, v. 3, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH by 6.3 against. RS 4 for, 1 abstention. There is a general, there is an entity majority and we find the Law on Supplements to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions was adopted by a hasty procedure. Thank you very much. We're moving on to item four of today's agenda, Ad. 4. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Service of the Armed Forces of BiH under a hasty procedure, in accordance with Article 122. Rules of Procedure of the House of People, Law No 01,02-02-1-23/12 of 24.05.2012 You have received a request from the Council of Ministers to discuss the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH, following a hasty procedure. The House of Representatives adopted the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law of Service in the Armed Forces of BiH at its 28th session on 14th, following a hasty procedure. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Thank you. Sorry, there's a gentleman, a fellow Genjac. Here you go, fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1377	I thank the chairman. I'm going to give a very brief explanation why I don't think this law should be considered by emergency procedure. In the light of the Law, there are many acceptable arguments why it is necessary to see what is happening to this Law and how it continues and how it is done. The public is aware that there have been a lot of talks and a lot of problems and that it has gone from an opportunity for those persons to remain in a particular category of rights, that the fulfillment of these rights is taken over by entities in accordance with, of course, the opportunities that are in BiH in general, especially economic opportunities and, of course, that those rights that remain, entities solve as much as possible and bring it into line with their legal system and their laws. The solutions reached by this Law are at least ambiguous. So that is, that there is ambiguity, there is also a reaction of certain entity institutions, which says that either they will not be able or are not in a position to fulfil those rights. On the other hand, the ambiguity is that despite the willingness and the intensity to ensure that these persons are kept in rights, we have been given a solution that can be interpreted that every kind of right for those persons has ceased and that they are now left to the mercy and mercy of the entities, starting from the beginning. 7 For these reasons, therefore, because of the ambiguity that are undoubtedly present in the decisions of the Law, our view is that the Law should be considered in regular procedure and to remove these shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1378	Thank you, fellow Genjac. She's a kolegica of Kpetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1379	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to answer why not to discuss this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH, according to a hot procedure, but in a regular procedure. I don't think the law is good because it creates legal uncertainty and an unequal legal position, by transferring members of the Armed Forces and their obligations to entities, even if the word is what the fellow said, mercy or unmercifulness of the entity. Such a legally discriminatory legal framework, which allows entity parliaments to frame or create the current or similar categories of rights, does not say that the status of the population is guaranteed, not in any place. That is legally stated, a reference norm that creates a legal framework for entity parliaments to pass a legal act that would regulate the status and rights of these categories. From this reference provision for entity parliaments, it does not give rise to an imperative provision which would oblige them to lay down entity regulations for regulating or maintaining existing levels of law in the manner regulated by state law. The analogy with the related laws of entities and related categories in Articles 2 and 3 of the 48s is a reason why more is to be against this Act. The position of these categories could be drastically changed in accordance with existing rights, as it points to a compliance clause with the regulations governing the rights of related categories in entities. In particular, I find the reason for the Law which says that the need to adopt such a law is, and that it is based on the need to preserve fiscal sustainability. The logical question is whether if we adopt this law in BiH, we will indeed ensure BiH's fiscal sustainability. The explanation also states that given that the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy is suffering the consequences of the economic crisis, and that the wave of crisis that has hit Europe is threatening it, BiH authorities must therefore push for decisive steps towards reforms in order to preserve the domestic economy. It is a illogical argument if we recall certain statements by high officials, that the Council of Ministers has no room or jurisdiction to deal seriously with the economy. If so, it is very unusual for fiscal sustainability to be mentioned in the explanation and to be reminded of the responsible attitude of the authorities to the crisis that threatens the domestic economy. We will certainly see after adoption if this happens, whether there will be a stabilisation of the economic situation in BiH, an incentive for economic activity. I believe that the proposals of this kind, with such absurd arguments as in this Law and covering the economic arguments of the Council of Ministers, which, at the same time, declares that there is no jurisdiction to deal with the economy, should be the subject of consideration as part of the consideration of 8 of the overall economic problems. I recall the conclusion of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives in November of last year, when the House of Representatives concluded that it must therefore be held, a debate on the overall state and problem of the BiH economy. I am considering the provisions of Article 14(2). The law on the financing of BiH institutions, which prescribe that budget users are not allowed to create commitments, i.e. burden budget positions, if the funds for these expenditures or the burden on budgetary positions are not approved within the amount located for the budgetary institution. I wonder if they'll be subjective, e.g. The Federal Institute for PIO MIO has a legal basis for payments, will it do so contrary to the provisions of the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions, the Law on the Budget of the Institutions of BiH, the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the BiH Institution and the Law on Pension Disability Insurance? I'm thinking of Article 117(3). The pension disability insurance law, which is imperatively prescribed – that funds must be provided in the Budget of the Federation of BiH and BiH to cover pensions made subject to more favourable conditions than the conditions laid down in the Law. I ask the Council of Ministers, have they secured funds in entities for that? Is the Federation agreeable to the security of the funds? How's he gonna do that? Are you aware that this goes to the burden of contributions, say in the Federation of BiH, in which the item is financed differently, which can cause pension cuts for 350,000 pensioners who are financed exclusively from contributions? And do you know that reducing pensions for 350,000 pensioners in the Federation of BiH will have a significant impact on the overall political stability in BiH? What's the essence of the law? Should the state get rid of and rid of these populations or find and find a true solution for them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1380	Thank you to my colleague, Kapetanović. I'm a colleague of the Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1381	Dear delegates, envoys, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all and in a certain way here I feel obliged to participate in this debate because I am one of the six leaders who signed the Agreement concerning the amendments to this Law. In the first place, I would like to say that we are going from the fact that this law was adopted in the previous assembly of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Was it wise, was it good, on top of all that is real, it is now certainly for different grades and, in any case, it doesn't matter now. We in the U.S. are committed to respecting the laws that were passed, no matter what they thought about them then or later. However, in the realisation of the Law, certain problems related to the provision of state-level funds have emerged and this was the reason for the political leaders to talk and to reach an agreement that was on the occasion that the rights of these soldiers remain, but that the commitments from the state move on to entities. We are to say, part of the Federation's political leaders and at a meeting before the six leaders' meeting, agreed with the Federation's prime minister and some ministers who agreed to it, the truth reluctantly because they know what it means and what it is to the Federation. And when we spoke at the 9th meeting of six leaders, we agreed with proposals that meant that the rights of these soldiers remain, but that the obligations for the reconciliation of those rights were to move on to entities. And I signed it among other things, paralyzing that one text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Armed Forces. There was something I don't know you, a few members, something's been erased, something's been added, etc. After that, when a comparison was made with changes and additions to the original text, I was informed that these amendments and additions were, at least, ambiguous or before the rights of these soldiers were lost, which was not an intensity and was not the aim of these agreements. That is why we wanted this Law to enter into a regular debate and to present what was truly agreed and to remove these ambiguities. Because you see, we now have statements from the Federation saying that, parts of the Federation Leader and the Federation ministers who say that this obligation, that this obligation, under this Law, will be transferred to the Fedeacija entity. And we have statements from RS politicians, who say RS has no obligation whatsoever, that these people will receive pensions as follows under the current RS laws. And that was why we wanted it to go into regular procedure and to remove that ambiguity, or to comply with the political agreement. I want to say that as far as the SDA is concerned and as far as I'm concerned, we respect all those agreements we signed. Everything I've signed since the April Package, the Prudish Process, I don't know, military state property, and I'm staying with it now. Let's see if there's one of the leaders who's willing to say he agrees to all the solutions he's signed in his, here's how Mr. Čović says that, therefore, there's no intention of playing what's signed, but just a desire to explain it in the law, as we agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1382	Thank you, colleague Tihić. He's a colleague of Ivanic's.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1383	So all that's happened with this Law and these people is an example of universal insecureness, from the very beginning to the day. I will talk about people who were from the RS and were fighters of the RS Army who participated in the war and who concluded their contract not with the Armed Forces of BiH, but with the RS Army. And then by joining them, they took over into the Armed Forces. And these 300 people didn't agree, they didn't get a job, they weren't told you'd be working until you were 35, you'd be working unlimitedly. And they were fighters, on the front line. And when they left, when they were told -- now you can't, from the entity institutions where it was always the right address, there was nothing. And that would be the only group of people to leave the RS Army and get nothing, no severance. And then in such conditions, what was it supposed to be? Let it go just like that or treat people who, from their point of view, worked as hard as they could for the RS and later joined together in the Armed Forces of BiH. And there was total neglect. If 10,000 marks had been said more forward, there would have been no problem. Just like there's been inconclusiveness here in these institutions. The Council of Ministers said we do not accept it, and the political parties behind the Council of Ministers were racing to vote on it. And then all of a sudden, everyone was worried. And then all of a sudden, you start worrying and in the end, what happens now? Nothing. Now it's just that the law is abolished and the problem goes back to the entity level with who knows what the outcome is, what's going to happen there. And I'm going to talk about only one side again, it's the RS soldiers who were on the battlefield and who, if nothing else, deserve at least the severance and that, because when they started working relationship, they weren't told you have a limited period of time to do it, but it was practically said you'd be there until retirement. That's why I generally think this whole thing is one big farce around this situation. I'll be kept on it. Let the authorities do whatever they want and decide what they want. What is the ultimate consequence, is that the problem is no longer in BiH's institutions, but goes down to the entity level. We'll see how they treat these people, and these people actually have to fight for their rights from the beginning. They're lucky, I'm not sure they'll win.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1384	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. Let me just mention one more time, we're having a debate about whether or not we're going to discuss this in a hurry. A fellow Košarac player.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1385	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable Chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the public media. First of all, I think this is a serious situation where, from the point of view of the arguments that are in front of all of us, we should stop with, I would say, trendy political behaviour, rather than try to find ways to make both the budgetary framework and the budget institution of BiH simply sustainable and, of course, I would say, an important suggestion of some social and social solidarity with most BiH citizens find the best possible solutions. I am convinced that the Council of Ministers is looking for the best possible solutions that are obviously not at the best satisfactory level for all of us involved in BiH's political life. But it should be kept in mind exactly what it said in the light of the amendments and the addition of this Law, where I should say, boldly open the possibility of fiscal sustainability, I would say, the BiH institution and its functioning. To single out 270 million for one population, not the entire population of that character, is I think too brave in BiH, and I think that in that context, there would be a situation where soldiers who were members of the Armed Forces of BiH, or soldiers who had different rights in BiH during the wartime acts. And I don't think that from that point of view we should be able to and should affirm inequality, that is, non-universality in BiH on that basis. And I think that this is the only real possible way, is that this law, or these provisions, is being amended and complemented to, of course, try to correct the mistakes of some who have passed such laws, that is, supported by such a law and had a light in the public of BiH. And today, it is not correct to talk about it, the entity's efforts to regulate this area and how it is governed by this entity area, that is, as it relates to members of the RS Army or some of the other armies in BiH. The best in entities is known what the relationship between entity authorities towards the population is, and I can say from the RS, that a responsible policy is being conducted in this context in the RS and today it is not good from the BiH Parliament to send messages that an entity called RS is not doing this job in the best possible way, 11 justifying itself in the process of adopting certain laws that they have given, I would say, inadequacies, today's need for controversy and talks in the BiH institution. Therefore, here is a matter of political will and political stance on this matter, I think this process and, of course, the Council of Ministers' efforts should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1386	Thanks, Košarac. kolega. Ivanić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1387	First of all, I don't justify myself, I'll vote for it, and I'll vote again. And you voted, SNSD MPs voted for this Law in the House of Representatives, otherwise it wouldn't have passed. Therefore, it is absolutely not a matter of justice, but it is a matter of criticism that the problem was not solved in time in entity institutions, where they belonged. And that's my criticism and nothing else. And if it were done in time and it hadn't been ignored, none of this would have happened. That's why I, therefore, absolutely don't justify myself, nor do I think of it, would vote again for these people.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1388	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. We're still in discussion about the urgency of the procedure. Comrade Tadić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1389	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues. So, I'm going to talk about the urgency of this procedure, this law. It is urgent to pass this law because it is related to an agreement in the BiH Budget. And if we adopt him today in a hot process, we can end today's first part of the Budget story and that's the basic reason for urgency, to be practical, so it's not about any effort to open up any political story besides anyone, but it's about that kind of urgency. Secondly, it is urgent that we understand by passing this law urgently, that laws should no longer be passed in pre-election time, for pre-election reasons, such as this one, so those who voted anywhere and ever, brought these people to this building and provided them with half board for the past few months, fighting for their rights. It is also urgent to stop listening to the report from the BiH Supreme Council, especially different and to return it to the institutions, to end partyocracy. By passing the bottom of this law by emergency procedure, the BiH Supreme Council is likely to have room to say large political matters have been completed, let the parties to the institutions elected, deal with it as their mandate. It is also an urgent solution for these people, as soon as we adopt this Act, Mr Ivanic, rather the RS and the Federation will be obliged to resolve this issue. And the position of the SDS from the beginning you know, after all, he was 12 in that Law and before, so all the soldiers who had stopped military service, for whatever reason, have the right to severance. We believe that now the same approach should be made in the RS and these people are compensated in a certain way. It's true that when they became professionals in the RS Army, they didn't know they'd be out of that job, but we didn't know at the time that we were going to run out of army, most of them at least. What we have today is a new situation for which new solutions should be sought, without harm to any individual. And that's where I agree. And if it were political consistency, I wouldn't provoke anyone here, you know our attitude from the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1390	Thank you, colleague Tadić. Is there a need for a debate? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1391	I appreciate that Mr Ivanić has a richer experience parliamentaryly, but I would like to say that the laws in BiH are passed by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples. And that what was adopted in the House of Representatives doesn't necessarily mean that the law came into force until it passes the procedure in the House of Peoples. To be completely open and to be clear. If you wish to be consistent, vote against amendments and additions to the Law, and you will best maintain your authentic opinion of this Law. I wouldn't want to argue with you, first of all, I wouldn't be here, I don't think you have the capacity, the truth is for the will, the small institutions of the RS, to look for certain solutions, but I think that, when it comes to former members of the RS Army, their solutions and their status issue should be resolved primarily in Banja Luka, in the institutions of RS, and not in one way, I would say, under the supposed, subtle way, here in Sarajevo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1392	Thanks, Košarac. Correction of the wrong allegation, colleague Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1393	Well, I'm glad my colleagues actually quote what I'm saying. From the beginning, I said it was supposed to be done in RS. The RS ignored it and thanks to the majority in which SNSD was dominant and did not do the job. And then to keep those people safe, we did it here. I'm proud of it, too. I will repeat again, I will quote you – there is no law without the House of Representatives. Therefore, the House of Representatives also adopted the House of Peoples and is not a problem at all. And as I vote, that's my problem, you won't be suggesting to me how I vote. I have my own attitude as I think I should. I'll be held back, because I don't think it's guaranteed these people that they'll get anything again. And that's why I think one big battle will follow them again. From what has been said so far, they should be waiting until 65. As far as I'm concerned, they'll have every right. And in principle, I didn't even point anything at you, I spoke more to the authorities, I don't know why you went so far towards me then, but there you go. And me, we're thinking the same thing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1394	You understand each other well, obviously. Thank you, colleague Ivanic.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1395	We understand each other very well, I agree.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1396	Comrade Bradarić, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1397	Gentlemen chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers, dear guests, I warmly welcome you. And, I have, I'm actually in a little bit of an advantage here, because, quite often, I attend sessions and the House of Representatives, so I hear a lot and I can somehow create myself a more real picture. And I heard the data at the last session of the House of Representatives, that at the 27th session earlier, the conclusion was adopted that this law was being discussed, that the bill was being discussed according to the emergency procedure and that it should perhaps remain consistent and that all 41 MPs, as far as it was present at that session, voted for such a thing and it is certain that one such vote result and arrangements in the Joint College, etc. And it's very important that we adopt this law by emergency procedure, I was just about to say what my colleague Tadić said, because we can't discuss and discuss Budget today without considering this law. It is, this Law is the result of the agreement of six leaders, and I heard it, but I heard that that day was also voted by members of the Council of Ministers and the SDA, so it can't be said that, however, they have to from the professional side, it can't be said that they or anyone else are uninformed. If they're uninformed, then that's it, so I'm talking about consistency. It's very important that we adopt this law, and here in this article, given Mr. Chairman that no one has listened to you, and everyone has talked about the bill, and I will do two sentences and finish it, I think in Article 48a. Paragraph 1 states that as earlier it was "can achieve this right", but now it simply categorically states "that it has a right". And that's what the entities will do. If they don't solve it, it's their shame and shame, and certainly the entities do, because that's where retirement solutions are given, it doesn't give it to the state, etc. So it's just a request for one consistency.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1398	Thank you, fellow Bradarić. It's the first time I've ever done anything wrong. I'm a colleague of Rodić. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1399	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the delegates, distinguished members of the Council of the Minsitarians, honored guests. I just want to say a few words before correcting the wrong allegation, which is that when we deal with such large reform issues, and when we think about whether at this point we should choose between whether to be a responsible politician or to be a popular politician – I am ready always to be responsible, especially on such laws. What I'm trying to say is that it's clear to all of us that it's necessary to pass this law here, is that one package that we're still doing is conditioned by this kind of solution. Thirdly, what I want to say, and perhaps not at this point, is that through this topic there is much to talk about, and this is exactly the state of pension disability insurance and everything that is going on in BiH and in entities and in what state the population and the working-active population are in at this time. And just from all this, talking about special rights that we don't have a financial foundation for is very dangerous, because I think this House of People's synergy is ready to deal with a lot of problems and I think they're on the right track to solve it. And third of all, I'm sorry that we opened up here in the House of Peoples today a story about who the position is, who the opposition is in the entity, but I think it's a good idea to imagine who is at a certain point and led the Resor of the Ministry of Labour and Combat Disabilities Protection, when many major steps in the entity have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1400	Thank you, fellow Rodić. We don't have any more debates. We don't have any interest in that. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. And I propose that we vote on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH under the haste procedure in accordance with Article 122 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples. Please vote. Thank you. Present 14, for 9, versus 3, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 6 in, 3 against. RS 3 for, 2 abstentions. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Please. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1402	They're asking us to repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1403	Shall we do it again, colleague Rodić?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1404	Well, we have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1405	Excuse me. I'm asking you to repeat the vote. A little concentration, green and red, mix constantly. Thank you. kolegica Kapetanović, will we be able to pass this way, not to repeat.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1406	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1407	So can we keep this up?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1408	You got it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1409	Thank you. At present 14, for 10, v. 2, abstention 2. The Federation of BiH 6 for, 2 against and 1 abstention. With this comment, Comrade Kapetanović. RS 4 for and 1 abstention. We have the entity majority, we have the general majority. I agree, the request of the BiH Council of Ministers for reviewing the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH was adopted following a hasty procedure. Now we're opening a debate that we've already, I hope, spent. But here's one more time we'll open it, if there's anything left to add. Thank you very much. No charges, no intention of signing up. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. And now we are launching a voting procedure on the Amendment Law proposal and additions to the Service Act in the Armed Forces of BiH, following a hasty procedure. Please start, thank you. Attending 14, for 10, v. 3, abstention 1. The Federation of BiH 6 in, 3 against. RS 4 for, 1 abstention. We have a general, we have an entity majority. I agree, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Service in the Armed Forces of BiH was adopted by a hasty procedure. Thank you very much. 16 We move to the fifth item of the Ad agenda. 5. Proposal for a Law on the Budget of Bosnia and Herzegovina Institutions and International Obligations of Bosnia and Herzegovina for the current year, first reading, delivered by the Parliamentary House of BiH This is the first reading of the bill, Article 100. Rules of Procedure. First, we will have a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the bill rests. The House of Representatives adopted the Law on the Budget of BiH and BiH's international commitments for 2012 with 14 amendments at its 28th session this year. You have received a draft bill on the Budget with integrated amendments submitted by the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. You've also received the opinion of the Committee for Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples. The Commission accepted the principles of the draft Budget Law. The commission also adopted the next conclusion, whose adoption is proposed to this House. The Committee on Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples proposes to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that the amendment phase lasts 24 hours from the day of adoption of the Bill on the Budget of BiH Institutions and International Obligations for 2012 in the first reading. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if there's any need. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1412	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, I will not speak more specifically about the Budget, although the debate on principles would have the opportunity to speak very much about this Budget at this stage, but given again the circumstances under which we came to this Budget, I will give up on this. I have only one general note to say, regardless of the circumstances and times it has caused, I would say, a little more nervous work on making Budgets, I suggest also the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, that a little more of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions still adhere to budget planning. So, when it comes to budget planning, I won't talk about it in more detail, but it's obvious that this Budget has neither met the minimum criteria in that regard. 17 In fact, I would like to take this opportunity to propose to the House a conclusion which I would pray, if possible, that the Council of Ministers prepares an analysis, not an information, but an analysis of the criteria for the allocation of funds from the Joint Account in the next 5 years, to analyse the legality and legal economic and other expertise in registering VAT from the point of view of its character, I will explain it a little later. This analysis should also include the degree of collection of indirect taxes and the reasons for potentially not charged indirect taxes, i.e. the measures taken by the Council of Ministers and the other competent authorities at their collection and analysis of legislation that would prevent the evasion and evaluation of indirect taxes. Whether there is a need to amend the legislative framework to prevent these occurrences. Because I am quite convinced that many of the problems that have followed the adoption of this Law have arisen from these facts, especially these two forwards. Because there's an indication that the entities and the Brcko District are incorrectly recording the VAT, and that's why they're getting certain, I'd say, undeserved positions in the division from the single account. I would pray, but now the Council of Ministers, not the Fiscal Council, but the Council of Ministers, to take this matter seriously and, as soon as possible, in exactly the way I propose and to have this analysis at the House by the end of the second quarter. Thank you very much, so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1413	Thank you, colleague Bećirović. I'm a colleague of the Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1414	Ladies and gentlemen, I know this discussion of mine won't have much to do with making the final decision, both today and Thursday's session, but here's what I need to do again. First of all, I want to answer one quite logical question – How is it possible that the ruling party that forms part of the parliamentary majority vote against the Budget? That is, I have to admit unusually in parliamentary democracies and we have never been to any level like this before. First of all, I would like to say that we are against the view that this budget cannot meet the need for the normal work of BiH institutions and that this will make BiH's path to EU and NATO membership more difficult. The next question that is being asked again – why did you not influence the fact that we have a budget that will meet the needs of BiH institutions? I also want to say for the sake of the public and everything, firstly that the SDA, or any of its representatives, did not participate in the creation of the Fiscal Framework. The fiscal framework was adopted without our representatives and was never adopted by the Federation of BiH government, which was certainly a commitment. We know that, besides the budget, that is, in addition to the amendment to the Constitution, the next significant decision is the fiscal framework, or after which the budget itself is being implemented. Therefore, our ministers did not participate in the Federation government either. In the Council of Ministers, we tried through the debate, through amendments to amend the Budget, that here are the arguments and reasons for certain items, especially defences, security issues, 18 rule of law and so on. to respect the amendments, however, in the Council of Ministers we are also overvoted. The chairman of the BiH presidency, Mr Izetbegović, also made some modest, so to speak, amendments to the 47m circus did not want to go into any megalomanic changes. However, he is too loud there, and our MPs have been voted in the House of Representatives, and today we will be revoted here. Therefore, that is why here is the SDA departing from the general principle that, if it is part of the parliamentary majority to vote for Budget. And now, specifically, when it comes to Budget. The problem, i.e. the basic cause of this budget, is, to put it this narrow fiscal framework that has put BiH institutions in a more unfavourable position than entities and other institutions. The first was the budget of BiH, which was 1,028.000,000 lower in 2010, by 78,000,000, reduced to 950,000 and frozen for the next 3 years. And in these two years, so from 2010 to 2012, apart from inflation, we had the formation of new state institutions, in this year we have additional costs of elections, local elections, soldiers' pensions, we have costs relating to the preparation of the census, then these border crossings related to this fine protection and so on. Therefore, instead of increasing that amount of 1,028.000,000, it has fallen and we still have additional obligations. Therefore, there should be no special financial expert to see that there is one illogicality and that it goes directly to the harm of the work of functioning BiH institutions. A team before the Fiscal Framework Decision says it is a projection of revenue and says – by 2012 income will increase 4.3%. Income for 2013 is 5.3%, for 2014 6.1%. And only the Budget of BiH is frozen, which accounts for 7% of the total budgets. Save yourself, what is said, on peppers and not on meat. Because 93% of all sorts of reasons, either they won't or can't get into that item, because it's a very demanding job for sure. We therefore believe that this budget is jeopardising the work of BiH institutions and its path to the EU and NATO. We all know that the main source of budget income is indirect taxes. And now let's go back and look at the budget analysis of the government and the entity budgets, see what's being financed from these revenues, and what can't be financed. For example. We take state-level services of 47,000,000 or work on commissions that work within a working time of 3,000,000, you know, and we don't know, I don't know, 5,200,000 how much it takes, to put it that way, to close a hole when it comes to the reduction of salaries of 10,000 unbalanced persons. So, just 5,200,000. And over here we're throwing, I don't know, for working on some commissions or for other purposes. Or, from that budget, certain entity needs are financed. You know, if we cut the state budget, then we gave more to the entities. Well, among other things, for the purchase of planes, for the opening of representations in the world. Then, we even have the financing of some NGOs lobbying for the denial of genocide in Srebrenica, I don't know, the financing of the American lobbyist house 5.6 million and so on, and here we don't have the money to finance, or to cut salaries to civil servants, I don't know you, employees, etc. At the same time in this budget, we have entered an item of 7.2 million in income from the sale of Kasarna "Maršal Tito", although it is clear when the decision was made, that it is canton income and that it will be used for campus, University Campus in Sarajevo. And anyway, here's what the budget is about, we haven't adopted it right now, and we're talking about the rebalancing of this Budget, because it's obvious that with these funds as planned, we can't meet those basic needs. 19 These were of opportunity, this is why we believe that, and for which we have strayed from this basic principle which is common and for which we vote, we will vote here today and 31 against this Budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1415	Thank you, colleague Tihić. A kolegica of the Kapetanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1416	Mr. Chairman. First of all, let me say that, aware of the fact that, in addition to the Constitution, it is the most important document of a state, it is a budget that needs to be sublinated by all the policies of that state. He rests on a global fiscal framework to bring to BiH's Fiscal Council. I think the Fiscal Council is not fulfilling its role as it should be. It should bring all fiscal policies, consider at least three years in advance which direction the BiH state should go, what priorities and objectives are. Unfortunately, it seems to me that this time the Fiscal Council was most concerned with the Global Framework in terms of the distribution of income from the Single Account, or what goes to the Budget State. I'll do it again, so three major problems that are disturbing us from the U.S.A. The first is the problem, therefore, of limiting the budget of the state to 950,000 marks and returning to the level of 2008 when the institutions did not have 15 agencies, as is the case now, when in 2012, institutions must provide 30,000,000 for the implementation of the Law on Armed Forces Supplements, provide funds for elections, lists and necessary capital investments that are conditional on foreign donor and credit agreements and NATO and the EU commitments. The limitation of this state budget to a amount of 950,000 marks, which represents a fact that only the basis for payment of salaries and partly directing is, I am sure, a clear intention of weakening state institutions and finally reducing and receiving in BiH institutions. These receipts are otherwise already partly lower compared to entities, especially in relation to the Federation of BiH, with the goal of further weakening the staff of state institutions and proving possible incompetence and absurdity of the existence of state-level institutions. At the same time, the budget of the RS is higher by 325,000 than in 2008, while the Federation's 2012 budget is higher than in 2008, even though entities do not have the establishment of new institutions that are related to the EU and NATO road. Therefore, taking into account the fact that the Fiscal Council was primarily engaged in the state, if entities, and that they had taken care of both entities and introduced discipline, if, if entities had also returned their budgets to the level of 2008 as the Fiscal Council had decided to do the state, we would have saved more than 500,000 and a new debt to the IMF at all. 20 I note that the Fiscal Council is responsible and responsible for the adoption of the draft document of the Global Framework and the fiscal balance and policies in the BIH, both at the state level and in the Federation, the RS and Brcko District. The second problem is the fact that the Fiscal Council in BiH has made a decision to freeze the state budget and separate the Single Account of the Directorate of indirect taxation to three years. Article 6 The BiH Fiscal Council Law does not allow this, but defines that the Global Framework for fiscal balance and policy in BiH is being adopted and revised for each year. Now, as we can see, that's not the case. The third problem is the document's format The global framework for fiscal balance and policies in BiH, which is absolutely ambiguous, in the sense that a document called the Global Framework for fiscal balance and policy in BiH is based solely on the discussion of the Fiscal Council and the decision on how much state budget will be and how much revenue the state will receive. The document should be comprehensive, which is on the trail of our objections with the IMF, which is one of the conditions for EU macro-financial assistance and would be logical to include a targeted fiscal position for BiH and explicitly for each level of government, to include all categories of income and expenditure and funding at levels and a total of policies on which each of the categories of expenditure and revenue is based, to define concrete sources of funding for deficits and a concrete borrowing strategy, in this Budget proposal, this is not done. I note that BiH spends 13.5 billion KM on all levels of government, including cantons, municipalities and funds. The state participates with 950,000, which is only 7% of the total. And all the savings and stories of the fiscal council have come down to the reduction of the state budget. In the analysis of this Budget, it cannot be noticed that the inclusion of the 2011 budget column and the comparison with the Budget Proposal for this year, and the conclusions are appropriate, welding. The 2011 budget reflects the temporary financing that lasted throughout 2011 and is absolutely not a good basis for any comparisons with this year. Furthermore, given the drastic budget cuts in relation to the needs and requirements of the users, it is very inappropriate for the budget to continue to show that our priorities for building state functions are related to meeting the conditions for the European Partnership and adapting the programmes and activities of the Ministry of Defence and other resolution ministries involved in implementing BiH's Partnership for Peace. I note on the Communication from the Peace Implementation Council's Management Board that the 2012 State Budget should ensure the full functioning of institutions at the state level and that BiH's international obligations are met, this budget cannot do so. I again say that the planned employment of about 300 new employees is not the criteria for employment being elaborated and fully clear. It is mentioned that the Council of Ministers has made a decision to pay a reduction of 4.5% of employees who have received more than 500 marks, which is practically flossule, since there is virtually no large number of employees under 500 marks, and it is inappropriate to cut salaries to managers by the same percentage as salaries to civil servants with significantly lower incomes. It would be more logical to take more than those who have higher incomes without touching these categories with much smaller incomes. So the institutions' income, and that's very important to say, in BiH institutions were reduced by 10% in 2009, and now they total up by almost another 10% in terms of wages, hot 21 meals and regression. I note that, at the same time, the Federation of BiH first increased its receipts in 2009 and then symbolically reduced them by 4%. The receivings in the Federation were even higher before this re-reduction of state incomes, significantly higher than in state institutions, and even for middle professional staff, which is absurd. So let's say, it's absurd that the adoption of a police officer in the Federation of BiH is 50% higher than the state police officers in the border police and the SIPA, who are guarding this country. A reduction in mobile phone costs and a reduction in the costs of the team, etc., is mentioned, but is not clear as to what costs of mobile phones, representations and fuels are reduced. What bothers me very much is the fact that liquid grenades have reduced the grant to return refugees. In addition, there have been significant reductions in other grants that have been regularly set aside in previous years, so, let's say, an important grant has been abolished in terms of providing funds for the Fund for support to foreign investors, as well as a grant for programmes for project preparation and potential candidates for EU funds. I note again, on the communiqué of the Peace Implementation Council Governance Board, which says and calls on the BiH authorities to implement sustainable solutions programmes and prevent the cancellation of the progress made on the return of refugees and displaced persons to their pre-war homes, as guaranteed by aneks vi of the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH. So, taking into account the fact that in 2012, the BiH institutions had to provide funds to implement the Law on Armed Forces Supplements, additional funds for elections, funds for a census that would cost about 30,000,000, and the budget is frozen for the next three years, so we don't know where those 30,000,000 will be found. The necessary capital and material investment required by foreign donors' credit agreements and NATO and the EU's commitments must be taken into account. And yet I mention that entity budgets are bigger, especially the budget of RS entity 325,000. If God had been lucky so that the fiscal council's decision was valid for both entities and that they, therefore, returned their budgets to the level of 2008 and reduced their public spending, then the unfortunate agreement with the IMF would not have been necessary at all. I therefore find the budget in this proposed form unacceptable for the adoption of MPs from the U.S. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1417	Thank you very much. Mr. Ognjen Tadić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1418	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. Given that this is a discussion of the principle, I will do so and act on this occasion. So, with all the remarks we've heard here, in fact, and what the public is saying, firstly, it can ask the question whether this is a regular budget, can it even be classified in some 22 categories of regularity, so that a certain kind of acquired, used, or established standards can be applied to it accordingly? My personal opinion and the opinion of the SDS is that this is not a regular budget, that this is one measure of recovery of the situation in BiH and in the public sphere after an economic crisis for which we are not responsible, but also more than a year and a somewhat long political crisis for which we are responsible, following which the earlier Council of Ministers convened for a year without budget, improvised the way in which the joint bodies of BiH and other bodies are financed, and in particular the external debt, and now we are where we are. No Niko here has the right objectively to, after all this has happened, and having the role of all political parties in past processes, say it is not part of the responsibility for this kind of public funding. The fact that we do not have this right is best confirmed by the fact that together we have accepted that these six political parties try to fix this situation. Now, and there's someone less responsible, but I'm not going to speak for any party right now, especially it wouldn't be polite to speak for my party's sake, to challenge these discussions. So this is a recovery measure. Only after this in the next phases, and given that a good part of you deals with the economy and you know what international obligations are in progress this year, the current and next year, and also the ones behind, we have only the opportunity to show the ability of this Council of Ministers to respond to the demands of the Parliamentary Assembly and the public, so to speak and employees, when it comes to public funding. Whether they're able to do it or not, that's what we'll see. There are people who can do that. We won't compare them to anyone, anything, in the environment, or here, what we saw earlier, but there are people who can do it if they want and if they have political support. As far as the SDS is concerned, they have it. That this resolution measure is best said about the way this Budget was brought to this House of Nations, from the way it was written, harmonised, established, etc., etc. And now Mr. Bevanda and if he would, I don't know what he could answer when he got the frame, when he got the parameters, when he got his homework. Because I'm saying, these are completely extraordinary opportunities. On these extraordinary occasions, I'm surprised there's been an increase, which is an increase of 45,000. I don't know who's a little in this country 45,000 grand for anything. And this budget was increased compared to what we spent last year, and there were no cuts in wages and all obligations met, 45,000 thousand more marks. International obligations have also been increased by around 100m and some million, which means that somewhere around 150m has been increased compared to last year. Now on one side we say the crisis is, we say it's not real, we say where to find this money, and then at the same time we ask for the budget to be even bigger. There's some kind of political contradiction that I don't think has anything to do with this debate. And I'm saying this just because tomorrow our voters and our people in the RS are going to ask us something about this decision in light of the criticism we've heard here, which is essentially not about the RS or the work of the common organs as a whole. Since this is a principle debate, I can afford to give myself a next grade. This situation in BiH's public finances has been the result of an erroneous policy over the past 16 years. Not by any party individually, but by all together. This country was not run by people who were elected, but managed by foreigners who produced institutions, reforms and what wonders, temporarily funded them and now gave them to us to suffer, and neither to benefit us nor to pay them. Is there a political force in this country to open the issue? And this question isn't cheap. I've calculated, if we didn't have what we got for OHR and others, this budget would be 23 enough at this point in time by all of these standards, at most 250,000 marks. The difference between 250,000 and 950,000 is 700,000 marks. Imagine that this country does not have a senseless institution of some, and that there are 700,000 marks available that can be sent to the public sector, to fund education, to address pension reform, to address real judicial reform, or to a hundred other places where it is more necessary, but to keep the guards at the borders that no one threatens, for example. If you're willing to enter that question on behalf of the SDS, I'm opening the door for you at any time at any time at any place, we'll be conversing on this kind of topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1419	Thank you, colleague Tadić. A fellow Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1420	Of course none of us are satisfied with the amount of Budget, believe me, I wish it were 2 billion, not 950 million, so that the salaries of the employees are double the amount, to compensate, a warm meal and so on. They're twice as big, so these state institutions paying rent to solve their own, to take care of them this year, they have their own space and so on. But reality is completely different. The perception of our public, we listen to it in recent days, in recent months, is that everyone on the Budget of the State has, to live well, to have good wages. But it's really not like that, right down to the level, when we look at these laws that we've just discussed, right down to the level of the heads of the sector, the department, the assistant ministers, the directors, ministers, so here we are delegates of the MPs, and at the end of the presidency, everyone has, all of them up to that level, they have miserable salaries. People like that who have little and when you take some, you take too much. But the question of pay should be resolved in a way that people really don't complain about little but complain, and generally complain about injustice. This issue should begin to be resolved from the state until the level of municipalities, so that in some institutions state-owned enterprises, public institutions, the Central Bank and so on, porters may have an honorable interest, but they have 2,000 marks, so much more than a professional advisor here in the commission or an expert associate. And when you know that, you always wonder what the alternative is? Is it an alternative to lose a little bit? If we don't adopt the Budget today and the birds know it more on the branch, we're entering one area of anarchy, we're entering an area of chaos where we're all losing motives together, and where there's nothing more we can do together and we don't want to work in such conditions at the end. There's no municipal election, and they're very important. Here I am, on the other hand, looking at it, because you have a lot of commissioners and a lot of community council members who are completely amortized, nothing people do, and even if there were two or three mandates and so on. And basic policy, development policy, economic policy is at the level of municipalities. There's no population list. And here we who are in the Commission for European Integration know that every questionnaire, and there are thousands, is based on an individual, and you will not be able to meet any questionnaire when you are negotiating with the EU on BiH's accession and of course we will stay away. There are no incentive funds, here's what I'm trying to say, here's what's not being talked about these days, there's no incentive funds from the EU, and then there's a lot of people saying, so let's not be occupied anyway, and so on. Who matters to me, who matters to me, and half of Europe won't locate us anywhere in Europe and so on. 24 There is no saying the IMF's funds, so let's not, they also say, at least we won't be in debt and we won't be affected by that Greek syndrome. America is one of the strongest states in the world that owes $15,000 billion. Japan owes 200 billion, the world's strongest state produces as much as Germany and France and Britain together and still owes it. Italy owes 2,000 billion euros. Greece did not measure, only the poor state is in Greece, and whoever goes to Greece and passes will see that the individual is not poor. Therefore, Greece and BiH cannot be compared in any way. So there are hundreds of reasons why we should adopt this budget today, and I don't know if I know a single half reason why I shouldn't do it. And today we have a reason to choose one evil, which is that we vote for Budget and here we agree to this reduction that is offered or to choose two evils, which is that we do not vote Budget and enter into one area of anarchy that will multiply a million problems from which it is really hard to get out. With that in mind, I will strongly support this Budget.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1421	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. He's a colleague of Ivanic's.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1422	Well, I think this Budget is what was realistically possible at this point and there's no big space to make taller. I don't think this is the fact Mr. Tihić spoke of, that entity budgets are in some super good shape. Both entity budgets are in deficit, both entity budgets do not have the money to cover their expenditures and must be in debt. And the only one that is due to the situation in balance is the Budget of the BiH institutions, which is why I don't think that's a very strong argument, because you will see that most of the essential problems will be at entity level and that many of the entities will not be able to carry out all the obligations and with such great budgets. But there are concept approaches here, too, and I'm going to say one example, here's the Agency for the Promotion of Foreign Investments, which when it came to being a story that it's a key thing to promote BiH, to strengthen the state, we have fifty people there today. When did you hear some of the last activity they did? Oh, that's the result of not talking. And now if someone started asking a little bit, is that wise or maybe better to hire five employees and rent a world-class house that will promote investment opportunities, here, you say, is a blow to BiH. And it is not, otherwise BiH will benefit more from this proposal than from this first one. If you don't get into that kind of debate once, if you start just like that empty story, none of us will be, it'll just be a competition that will fight or not argue for a certain amount of income. Isn't it time that, here if you want the Bosniak party to think first and say, let's once determine how much BiH institutions participate in the overall budget. A few years ago, it was the Bosniak parties who refused to insist that as many institutions as possible to get high, to get high, and then we'll do it, and that today we have a percentage of this budget debate as possible. It would be pointless because anyone could fit into certain incomes they have with themselves. 25 As far as I'm concerned, I repeat, this is the state it is now, there is no magician who would have done with a hundred million more, that's about a hundred million less in entity budgets, that's what they owe another 100 million more of the new loans they would have to find. That's right. And the only thing that grows in this entire budget on real... is the dramatic growth of foreign credit payments, 31%. And now imagine when the kennel happens again, so when they start after that year with all the new responsibilities that are coming here, that's going to be a fundamental problem, not this story of whether some institution got more or less or some level of power more or less, all together it goes in a very ugly direction, and all together it goes towards something that, as angry as people get, it kind of looks like some kind of Greek syndrome. Because it was sad for me to listen to finance ministers who said, unless the IMF deal was over. And by all accounts, that seems to be the case. And the others who say, if there's no IMF, we'll find other money, some other loans, only then is it over because it'll cost you even more. But that might mean something, some other topic, some other discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1423	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. kolegica Kapetanović, have we hurt our Rules of Procedure somewhere?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1424	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With all due respect and my great respect for Mr Ivanić who, by the way, and my good friend, I cannot agree with the fact that, with your claim that you say – that Budget RS is not in surplus but is in deficit. For the simple reason I have the data, and I allow it to be wrong, they say that in 2008 budget RS is a billion and 500, 2009 billion and 600 KM, 2010 billion and 600, 2011 billion and 750 thousand KM and 2012 billion and 825 thousand KM. So that's the 325 million I've been dealing with, I'll let you make a mistake if that's not true. And then there is no, therefore, really no argument for wasteful behavior and I know that you don't even justify it, I'm quite sure of it, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is giving a liquid grant to Trebinje Airport that doesn't exist, in fact never lived in full capacity and that every year it stands out in 2011, 2012. - 362,000 marks, not to mention Sky Serbian 380,000 marks, subsidies to them and therefore other projects that are simple, for which there is no room and justification. So it's not the impression that it's a deficit, it's a surplus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1425	Thank you, colleague Kapetanović. kolega. Ivanić, correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1426	I must say again, what you're saying shows one thing, that budget has grown, but it's in deficit. He grew up because foreign loans were increasing and there was no income to cover it. I'm 26 more critical than you, but I don't think it's a place to talk about entity expenditures, I'm much more critical than you, but in that place where it's supposed to be, and there's a representative of the SDA, so I suggest we keep it there. But I'm gonna do it again, the deficit, and that big deficit that's covered by foreign loans. And woe to the budgets that are so covered by foreign loans.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1427	Thank you. And SNSD representatives are pleased.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1428	I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1429	A fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1430	I thank the Honorable Chairman. Of course, the budget is, we'll agree very easily, the instrument for implementing our intentions, we'll hear from you, so Budget is a key instrument for policy implementation and it seems to be getting weaker, right? If this is, of course, in that... considering this Budget proposal should answer two previous questions. So, what motivated the Fiscal Council to establish in the global framework of the fiscal balance and politics in BiH that in '12, '13. And in '14. The budget will amount to 950 million, and the allocation of revenue from indirect taxes from the Single Account will amount to 750 million KM, what has it done? And in that document, it's a reference number. The second question to be answered is this, what are the criteria for the allocation of funds from the Single Account? In fact, if we start from the fact that Budget is an instrument for policy implementation and for certain projections, with the fact that the situation in BiH is not at all, it is impossible to separate it from the situation in Europe, that the situation is difficult, that we have economic problems, but also the fact that this budget does not allow the implementation of obligations on the path of European integration, the implementation of our phase with regard to NATO, as regards the Membership Action Plan, the fulfilment of obligations after we have obtained the liberalisation of the visa regime, the institutions that are necessary to establish. So, this is not how the Budget allows it, this is how the Budget brings about 10,000 unformed persons to a position in institutions such as the Border Service, the Armed Forces, the SIPA with medium professional equipment, which with this reduction will be in a position that their incomes are significantly lower than those in the entities of related categories. And if that didn't happen, five million is enough and now there's no will to accept it, and on the other hand we have forty million for various contractual obligations. So is this really our policy, do we really want to make it difficult for us to make the European path, to question NATO, to question the fulfilment of the visa liberalisation obligations, to bring officials at the state level into that... do we really want it or do we really want to do it 27? I mean, I don't think we have to do everything, but there's a certain approach here that can be motivated by a certain approach or I don't know, not taking the seriousness of that problem, but it shouldn't be that way. Compared to Budget with Budget last year and that's an increase of 47 million compared to last year, there's no elemental assessment requirement, so next to the budget in one year when you've been on the air and when you've had temporary funding and on the basis of such a budget, you say - now we have 40 million increases, it's an extraordinary thing. It's no extraordinary thing at all, we know what happens when it's temporary funding and how it's budget implementation. So, I agree, we're talking about the principles and the principles of the budget, I agree, very quickly we'll agree that there are institutions whose purpose is to exist on our own, but I think there's a very small number of these institutions and we're open to talking and we're going to search each and every one if we need to close them. However, we have institutions that are our key obligations, which have not yet been established and which cannot be established because there is no between other and material conditions. I don't think this one, if it were a legitimate political option, would be to remove all institutions and save 750 million, and that could be, say, a legitimate option. But let's just say it's legitimate, and it's an attitude if only the entity border were to be abolished, it would save 2 billion, and I think it's far more rational, but of course it's just a political option that can be real, unrealistic, but it's legitimate because it's being, you know, in this public discourse. Now, if we're talking about financial resources here, we should probably watch where more savings are saved, where more is obtained, and that's an even more legitimate option, right? But when we return to reality, so we have the institutions that we have, we are the state that we are according to international legal standards, we have obligations that we have accepted, these are not small obligations, and these are the obligations which ultimately bring long-term well-being and material to the citizens of this country. It's not just an investment to lose, it's very common investments and get. Now the basic question is whether, therefore, one of the questions is whether this adoption of the budget is urgent and whether it will be about really important projects such as municipal elections and censuses. It will absolutely not raise the question if the budget is not adopted or the census, or the municipal elections, these experts who are well understood about the Law on the financing of institutions and the existing situation in the budget, reserves and so on. That I do not elaborate longer, very clearly and very well know, so neither the list nor the municipal elections will be questioned, because there are funds in reserves for these things, no problem on that side, it is not an argument for the rapid adoption of the budget. Indeed, the question arises whether, now, is it more of a shame to be left without Budget and the way it is or to adopt a Budget like this without being able to change the point, because the mood is obviously such as to take over the Bureau of Statistics in the year of the census and to give the Parliamentary Assembly, among other things, to buy cars, there is a mood, there is no mood for other things, for nothing else. Now, therefore, whether the greater evil is that, to be left without the Budget as it is or to accept a Budget like this, is probably a question that contains judgment and confirmation of time. I think the error was made in the beginning, one of the mistakes is and the way this Budget is made and the criteria that he managed to respect in respect of respecting the Law on the financing of institutions, on the one hand, we have a problem, we have some incomes that are very controversial, designed. And on the other hand, I think a big mistake was made in terms of the fiscal framework, and that's my opinion, and I think that's why this budget shouldn't be legitimateized by a single mistake that 28 was made in terms of designing the Global fiscal framework. Who's right, are those who claim it's better to adopt any budget or say this opinion that I'm making, I'm afraid we'll have to wait a year, two or three, and I'm afraid I'll be right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1431	Thank you, fellow Genjac. We don't have a debate anymore, so that concludes the debate. I would suggest, we can, if you'll open more debates,...you'll contribute to the debates, please, thank you very much, Minister. I suggest we vote on the bill in the first reading. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 14, for 11, versus 3. The Federation of BiH 6 in, 3 against. RS 5, all in favor. There is a general, there is an entity majority. I agree on the draft law on the BiH Budget and the international commitments for 2012 was adopted in the first reading. Thank you very much. And now we need to be clear about the conclusion of the Committee, I will read it again: The Committee on Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples proposes to the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH that the amendment phase lasts 24 hours from the day of adoption of the Bill on the Budget of the BiH Institutions and International Obligations for this year. I'm opening a voting procedure regarding this conclusion. Thank you. The colors have changed a little bit, but we have a sign, 14 present, for 11, abstention 3. The Federation of BiH 6 for, 3 abstentions. RS 5, all in favor. We have the general, we have the entity majority and we find the conclusion of the Committee on Finance and Budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has been adopted. Thank you very much. And now we are going to the conclusion proposed by counterpart Bećirović, should we read it again, counterpart Bećirović. I hope you all got it like that. Do Košarac want to sign up? Would you turn on your colleague's Košarac? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1432	I will be very brief, I think that Mr Bećirović's good intention is in the formulation of this conclusion, I would just like to suggest, of course, that it may be much more effective, because we have had certain conclusions where we have waited very much for the information that we should have received from 29 Councils of Ministers or from certain ministries in the Council of Ministers, perhaps because of the more efficient data collection of this House, we should consider this conclusion to be directed to the Directorate for indirect taxation, i.e. to ask them for this information in order to, I say, be more efficient and to obtain feedback as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1433	Thanks, Košarac. Is there any need to comment on this, conjecturer?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1434	The Council of Ministers, it will certainly do so with the help of these institutions, but also with the Fiscal Council, it is clear to me. [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-05-29-0.u1435	We've all got a good conclusion ahead of us. I'm opening the voting procedure for the conclusion. Attending 14, for 14. Federation of BiH 9, all for. RS 5, all in favor. There is a general, there is an entity majority. I find the conclusion proposed by counterpart Bećirović has been adopted. Thank you very much. We're moving to agenda six, Ad. Six. Proposed amending and supplementing law on salaries and fees in BiH institutions (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-17/12, of 08.05.2012 This is the first reading of the bill, Article 100. Rules of Procedure. We will hold a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have received the opinion of the Committee on Finance and the budget of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly which has adopted the principles of the bill. At the 28th session held on 14th, the House adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in First Reading Institutions. I give my word to the Proposer of the Law if there is any need. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a debate about this Piredelog. I don't see any reports, and I don't see any interest in the application. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. 30 We vote on the bill in the first reading. At present 14, for 10, against 3 and 1 abstention. You want to go out technically, but you won't mind. The Federation of BiH 6 in, 3 against. RS 4 for and 1 abstention. There is also a general, there is an entity majority and I conclude the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions was adopted in the first reading. So we exhausted the agenda for the 16th session. The next 17th session is Thursday at 11:00 in two days. Thank you very much. Session completed at 13:01 p.m.
