ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11480	I am opening my 33rd session of the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives and fellow Members of Parliament. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH, representatives of certain NGOs, according to the possibilities of the Assembly and the free seats, media representatives. I warmly welcome all arrivals of MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, and according to the session's service, 39 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As regards changes and additions to the agenda, I would like to inform you that point 3 is added to the agenda. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives; point 4. Ismete Dervoz's request for consideration of the amendment law and amendments to Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives; point 15. Consider the extension of the mandate to BHRT board members because we received a letter from the Management Board and our commission managed to finish the job this morning. Dots have been removed: 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports in Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: MP Denis Bećirović (first reading), at the request of the Constitutional Legal Commission, who did not consider the bill because of the non-preference of the Proposer. The House College set a deadline for the delivery of Opinions until 15.10. And point 13. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH because the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics has submitted a request for an extension of the deadline. The College extended the deadline until the next session, i.e. 15.10.2012. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Dear Ambassador Asim Sarajlić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11481	Are you? 2
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11482	No, no, there you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11483	Since the vice president was on his way to the pay phone, I thought he would.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11484	But he can't do it without the Chairman's permission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11485	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. On the basis of Article 65(1) and in relation to Articles 4 and 19, The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, as an authorised promoter, propose an addition of the agenda to include a new item 2 which would read as follows: – Resolvement from the duties of former Deputy Chairman/President of the Parliamentary House of BiH Denis Bećirović and appointment of the new deputy chairman/chair of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. Shorter explanation: So, after several initiatives and the apparent loss of support from Mr Bećirović from the current motions, to mention this honorary House that I was at the session just proposing Mr Denis Bećirović for the leadership of this parlamentan, it is evident that this trust Mr Bećirović no longer enjoys, so I ask this House to include this item of the agenda and to declare ourselves about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11486	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11487	Thank you. The Serbian Democratic Party has submitted an initiative to replace Mr Bećirović, who has not passed the procedure for including the co-workers on the agenda, and we agree that the SDS initiative and the subsequent SDA initiative are also under consideration at one point in the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11488	Thank you. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11489	Thank you. 3 I would like to draw attention to the possibility that all protocols, contracts, agreements and conventions signed, or ready to... confirm in Parliament that at least for the next week, or the next session in the next first call, to deliver them to us, or to enter the procedure. Because according to the data we've received, we can practically see that a lot of things are ready but we haven't practically seen it on the agenda, so I'd like to ask you to prepare everything that's ready for us by the next session so that these agreements don't wait indefinitely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11490	Thank you. I call on the secretary to come out for a pay phone and say what's left of it that's not put on the agenda, because as far as I'm aware, neither of the ratifications nor of any document that should come into the agenda was left in the drawer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11491	Exactly, as the chairman said, on today's agenda we have nine consents for ratifications of contracts, protocols and memoranda. At present, neither the committee nor us in the secretary's office has any agreement, no protocol, no memos, so we don't have any unsettled or unscheduled ones on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11492	Thank you. Mr. Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11493	I'd just like to say that there are 7 or 8 more in the materials that we've already received, and compared to the agenda, I see that they are not included, and that's why I wanted to mention and suggest that they be at the next session... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11494	Only that the chairman of the committee responsible for delivering an opinion would explain why she didn't deliver it to you. We put everything we thought on the agenda. And you believe that it's in our best interests to force this thing to end as soon as possible, simply. Okay, thanks. I don't have any more suggestions.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11495	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11496	Dear colleague Saša Magazinović, business intervention. Here you go. 4
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11497	Dear Chairman, co-chairing, colleagues and fellow MPs, representatives of the Council of Ministers, other dear guests, I warmly welcome you all. The vision of what was proposed I have one brief business intervention. In the past few days, we have received two initiatives – one SDS Club, another SDA Club and today, at the SDA Club itself, proposes an initiative based on Article 65. Rules of Procedure providing for the possibility of naturally proposing a new point with the relevant material in writing. We as representatives didn't get that material, so it would be good, before we open a discussion on the agenda and at all about this initiative, to get the accompanying material. And here, a colleague of Bosić explained to us that the SDS and SDA initiative is uniting, so it may be small and unclear whether it remains as valid only in the business procedure the material delivered, which is the material delivered by the SDS Club. So let's just get this straight before we go to the agenda discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11498	Thank you. Dear colleague Asim Sarajlić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11499	Therefore, Article 65(1). The Rules of Procedure of this House say At the beginning of the session, the MP, as well as any authorised promoter, has the right to seek to abandon the optional point and propose a new one.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11500	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11501	It doesn't say the right material, I haven't read it anywhere.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11502	Thank you. Are you done?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11503	So, the act of appointment is not in front of the SDA Club. I, as an MP, am running this, of course, as the head of the club, but also at the session when this College of Representatives Home was appointed I was the proposer of Mr Denis Bećirović for the leadership of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11504	Thank you. Mr Sarajlić, the Rules of Procedure have, meanwhile, been amended and added, in amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, with appropriate material in writing. I'm asking you to take a break for 10 minutes to deliver to me in writing a proposal on the agenda and to, in the meantime, 5
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11505	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11506	I don't have it, and in the meantime, share the MPs with an adequate material that I know you already have. So let's sort this out. For 10 minutes of breaks. Pause Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats. The breaks are over and I, and I hope you too, have received from the honourable MP Asim Sarajlić, a written proposal for the agenda point as well as an explanation for this agenda point, which means that the materials are, thereby providing business provisions that can be voted on on this item of the agenda. I don't have any reports. Business initiative, president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11508	It's a short-term intervention. We received this explanation by trying to honor a 65th member who said the relevant material in writing with the initiative. However, the written material-explanation we have received does not correspond to the initiative itself. Namely, the SDA MPs' club is looking for Dr Denis Bećirović's shift until they mention that person in their explanation and it's probably a mistake. Namely, the explanation provided by the SDA says the SDA is launching an initiative to replace Denis Bećirević. That man doesn't exist here. It is said further that Denis Bećirević as a member of the College, Denis Bećirević is not a member of the College. So, I don't know, maybe this is an initiative to replace some Denis Bećirević at another level, in another parliament, but the deputy chairman of this House is called Denis Bećirović. And if they were looking for his shift, then they needed to explain why they were looking for Denis Bećirović's shift. So, I don't think that naqm needs a break so people can say who they're replacing, or who they're trying to replace, but it would be good to explain because it confuses us because this guy here just doesn't exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11509	Thank you. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11510	Well, I'd like to clarify some of the doubts I'm facing when it comes to this. I call for a debate on the agenda that preceded this stop, and I ask if it's a united initiative, because we know that we had two initiatives, and through the debate it was suggested that it was actually united initiatives. If that is the case, are both arguments that follow these two initiatives that are now united, if they are united, whether both arguments are relevant for item 6 of the agenda which we will define as we are looking for these initiatives. And the third thing is whether the possible positive outcome of these initiatives could cause a constitutionally defective situation in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. I think these are issues that are relevant to us that need to be defined about the possible adoption of the initiative, i.e. the inclusion of this agenda item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11511	Thank you. We here have before us a request from an MP, a respected colleague of Asim Sarajlić, with a strictly stated agenda. We have the materials that are attached to this item on the agenda. That's what the conditions of business were for us to come forward. Whether, if the agenda entrys, someone will bring in other materials and give their justification for the shift later than what we have received, each MP determines himself. We're not discussing the shift right now, we're discussing putting this item on the agenda. Business conditions for inclusion, for the vote on the inclusion of the agenda item, have been acquired. We can formalize it one way or another, but we need to make that clear. I don't have any more applications for discussion. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11512	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11513	At SDP's request, take 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats. The president of the SDP Club needs to explain the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11515	I thank the chairman. I am aware that the debate is over and that there is a vote and that there are no more debates, but before the vote itself, I would ask you to explain to us before the statement what we are voting on, since we have the same initiative with two different reasons and to tell us whether the arguments have been united, or whether that means that two arguments have become a unique explanation and that SDS and colleagues Sarajlić, I do not know whether, on their behalf or on behalf of the Club, they have accepted an explanation from the other. Well, just before the vote, we know what we're voting on.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11516	Thank you. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11517	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11518	Wait a minute. So, I believe that you and I have one single piece of paper here – the request of the honourable MP Asim Sarajlić with the exact request for the entry of the agenda. I don't have any other request from any MP, club or authorised promoter. What happened yesterday at the Expansive College does not oblige today's debate on the agenda. So I don't have to explain other initiatives what's going on with them. I'm putting on a vote just what I got before... So we're voting on being classified as point 2. A discharge from the post of current deputy chairman/chair of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives Denis Bećirović and the appointment of a new deputy chairman/chair of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 21 versus 15, abstention 3. An insufficient entity majority from the Federation of BiH. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The college has decided that there will be a post-harmonisement regarding the iteming of the agenda. Given that there have been no further proposals for amendments and additions to the agenda, I agree on the agenda of today's session: Agenda 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 32nd session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament issues: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Law No 01,02-02-1-34/12 of 27.08.2012; 4. Ismete Dervoz's request for consideration of the amendment law and amendments to Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, Law No 01-02-1-38/12 of 04/09/2012; 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-26/12 of 26.06.2012 (second reading); 8 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1 30/12 of 11/07.2012 (second reading); 7. Proposal for a law on associations of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-29/12 of 06.07.2012 (first reading); 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-31/12 of 13.07.2012 (first reading); 9. Proposal for a law on free legal aid – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-33/12 of 23.07.2012 (first reading); 10. Annual report on the transport of strategic goods for 2008, 2009 and 2010, material of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, issue: 01,02-50-19-676/12 since 28.05.2012; 11. Report from the BiH Council of Ministers for 2011 Agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina, issue: 01.02-28-1005/12 of 07.08.2012; 12. Report on the work of the Investigative Commission on both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House to check the legality of the ammunition destruction process, mine-explosive means, weapons and military equipment, material number: 01,02-50-19-980/12 since 25.07.2012; 13. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's state of public debt on 31.12.2011, Council of Ministers' material, issue: 01.02-50-19-959/12 of 20.07.2012; 14. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the conclusion of the 4th session of the Research Commission on the establishment of the spending of donor funds, issue: 01-50-4-428-4.1/12 of 06.07.2012; 15. Consider the extension of the mandate to BHRT Management Board members, BHRT Management Board material, number: 01,02-29-1224-2/11 of 03/09/2012; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Commission on the horizontal nuclear security programme and the protection against radiation under the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-1004/12 of 06.08.2012; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Moldova on Co-operation in the fight against organised crime, illicit drug trafficking and psychotropic substances, terrorism as well as other types of serious crime, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-1007/12 of 09.08.2012; 18. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on Inland waterways and their technical maintenance, materials of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-1009/12 of 10.08.2012; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Defence Cooperation, materials of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-1-1025/12 of 23.08.2012; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the United Nations Convention on Europe (UNECE) on the cross-border effects of industrial Hague, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-965/12 of 23.07.2012; 21. Giving consent to ratification of the Loan Treaty (Capljin Water Supply Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-981/12 since 26.07.2012; 9 22. Giving consent to ratification of the Guarantee Treaty (which refers to the Loan Treaty for the Way from Banja Luka to Doboj – Phase 1 of the Project) between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-981/12 of 26.07.2012; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Protocol on Amendments and Supplements to the Vienna Convention on Civil Responsibility for Nuclear Damage, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-1006/12 of 09.08.2012; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding on Co-operation and Support for the sekretarijat of the konvencija on Police Co-operation for Southeast Europe, the BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-1013/12 since 20.08.2012. We're moving on to the realization of the agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of the record by 32. Sessions of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11522	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I need to comment on this response to the parliamentary question I received from the Court of Justice of BiH, because it almost looks amazing. So my question was addressed about Fadil Al Hamdanija, a citizen of Iraq, who had been banned from moving outside the immigration centre and who posed a serious threat to BiH's national security, who was deprived of BiH citizenship, refused to issue a temporary stay in BiH, refused to apply for movement, so outside the immigration centre, until the European Court of Human Rights made a decision on the case. Now, it's amazing what the Court says. Therefore, it is absurd for the Court to say on the grounds that the Service for Foreign Affairs and the Intelligence Security Agency had to observe the person day and night, so that the appointed person would not be in a situation to escape, and the Court itself stated in its ruling that there was no need for such a type of supervision and provided for a milder measure to appear at the home address occasionally in the competent service. I think it's such a terrible oversight, that it's such a decision to get to know the High Court and Prosecutorial Council the way the Court of BiH works, and I will make the right use of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11523	Thank you. Obviously, we have a technical error. The Honorable delegate, Staša Košarac, will not get a word. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11524	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I've got a lot of answers all of a sudden, yeah. I was asked six answers to six questions. Let me just say one word at a time to say about each of them. So the first 11 questions were – how many Council of Ministers proposed law in 100 days. I received more answers today than the Council of Ministers proposed in 100 days. From this answer, this is a sad fact and I urge the Council of Ministers to take a look at this response for the first 100 days. This is simply amazing when it comes to the fact that many laws have been amendments and additions to existing laws. I'm very worried about what our engine of reform inside BiH looks like. The Council of Ministers must be an engine of reform. The second issue was addressed to the RS MUP and the BiH Ministry of Security over that control in Banja Luka, with the participation of members of Serbia's MUP. And I got the answer that the members of Serbia's MUP did not take any authority towards the BiH citizens, but that a presentation of the equipment was carried out. I think the answer is trying to avoid the essence of things. No members of another country's MUP can be on the streets of the BiH state, but they can only be members of those institutions in BiH, state, entity, cantonal, municipal, etc., and I think the essence is clouded here. I call on the Ministry of Security to deal with a little bit, so this case, and to see in detail what was here, despite the fact that powers have not been taken over by the citizens of BiH. The Justice Ministry's response to the statute of limitations, he was partially delivered. What I got was satisfied with the answer, I'm not state-of-the-art but there will be an additional answer to that question. As far as the state border is concerned, I intend to ask a new question today. I think that's how they drifted away when they gave me the answer to this question. I am interested in what the problems are, not the problems written, in border talks on the border with BiH neighbours. I think the answer should be very detailed. I will repeat this question today. And compared to the other two issues that concern me, which I put on the proposal of the NGO sector, let me conduct a consultation, and then I will comment at the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11525	Thank you. First deputy chairman, distinguished colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11526	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I received an answer to the parliamentary question asked on 25.06.2012, addressed to the Central Election Commission, and that was said – will BiH's Central Election Commission also take action to remove discrimination against some political parties and citizens who represent these parties, done incorrectly by interpreting and applying the BiH Election Law in the process of reporting parties for local elections? So the question was raised at a time when the Central Election Commission could still react to ensure the regularity of the elections, but they did not. I'm not happy with the answer, and I'm looking for an answer. Namely, the Central Election Commission has sent a reply mainly to quote the provisions of the BiH Election Law and does not pay attention to the essence of the issue, and in fact my question has been addressed due to 12 violations of the Election Law. Thus, the Central Election Commission does not at all take into account the fact that the BiH Court of Appeal has made a decision interpreting the Central Election Commission's provision for the collection of signatures for local elections has been declared illegal. The BiH Court of Appeal's decision recognised the SDA appeal and allowed it to be certified for local elections in several municipalities in RS even though they did not collect signatures required by the Central Election Commission, and asked HDZ 90 to collect signatures for registration even though it had representatives at the same or higher level. This procedure has had obvious negative consequences and will have an election process and has caused discrimination against other political entities. The responsibility of the Central Election Commission is undeniable, so that part of the Central Election Commission's response, which states that, so I quote, the position of the Central Election Commission of BiH on the application of a cited legal standard in a particular situation, is the same as for all participants on the procedure defined in Chapter IV of the Election Law of BiH (confirmation and candidateing for elections), which excludes any form of discrimination against any (individual political entity), the end of the quote, obviously does not correspond to the truth, if it takes into account the aforementioned decision of the Court of Justice of BiH's Board of Appeal and the fact that one party which, by the decision of the Court of Appeal, has allowed it to go to elections without authorisation, without obtaining a signed position in relation to the other parties, and I am afraid that this will not end, personally and as a party, take advantage of the other legal and constitutional capacity to challenge of this institution. What consequences this will have for the election process, for the election results I don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11527	Thank you. Let's move on with the comments. Dear colleague Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11528	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow MPs. My parliamentary question was according to the Council of Ministers – when will the rules on the use of mobile phones be established? I've got the answer I'm happy with. I'm counting on it... in as short as possible to make unique criteria. I'm glad they accepted that, and I expect a quick realization, because it doesn't happen to us that some officials use seven cell phones, and I sometimes ask a question, I don't even know how they can answer, how many people they need to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11529	Thank you. Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11530	I thank the chairman. I got the answer. Of course, I'm satisfied with the answer, but with the content and procedure, I'm not. I want to remind only my question was about the inclusion of funds, dedicated funds that stood in the sub-account for several years, which were revenue from the sale of part 13 of the campus of the University of Sarajevo for the construction of the American Embassy. In the response delivered, which you had the opportunity to see, it is true that the funds stood on the dedicated sub-account of the BiH Single Account at the Central Bank and that, as it stands here in response, will be used purposely, which is boededed, to address the issues of the BiH institutions' accommodation. So, I just want to remind you of a procedure that we have drawn attention to when adopting the budget of state institutions, which also denies this response, whether, and the attitude of some colleagues and colleagues who have been advertised recently in the media and the public that all those who have raised their hands for budget institutions, for the financing of institutions and international obligations, have raised their hands for such a decision, that the funds from the sale of part of the property of the University of Sarajevo have been allocated for consumption, for financing, or for the functioning of state institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11531	Thank you. Chairman of the House, distinguished representative, Dr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11532	Thank you. Let me comment on the incomplete response received by the Missing Persons Institute and the International Commission for Missing Persons. I didn't get an answer from the Department of Refugees and Displaced Persons and these other two answers are completely incomplete. Namely, the Institute and its VD president gave himself the right to give an answer. We also received a denial from another member of the Kolegijum that the answer does not correspond to what they need in the College to make a common position. So it is not possible to privatise this Institute in a way that its VD director takes the right to decide what is the official position of the Institute. They are a body with two other members, who are members of the Kolegijum and should find ways to sit down and compromise the answer. That is why I ask them or to find out that there is no consensus regarding the answer to the questions that I have asked or to meet and find ways to come to a compromise and send such an answer. It's obvious that there's abuse and position but there's also a non-implementation of the Missing Persons Act. At the same time, the international organisation, which signed the Agreement with the Council of Ministers, does not want to enter into a new competition for members of the Management Board, in a way that boycotts its proposal and consent to the Council of Ministers to launch the process. It cannot be a member of this BiH, not a single international project organisation and the Institute, but in the same way, or at the same time putting it on one side and blocking the implementation of the law. Either let it come out of the Agreement and let it all in the hands of Bosnian Herzegovina citizens or stick to the Agreement and carry out this process in partnership with the Council of Ministers. So I'm looking for an updated answer from the three addresses I referred these questions to. At the same time, when I got out, I wanted to make another call to the Justice Department. In fact, even at the session, delegates and MPs ask, and the Council of Ministers answers, I asked the question. Until the 14th day of today, I didn't get an answer to the simple question – were there any abuses regarding the granting of citizenship, what processes have been opened and how have they been completed? Until today I didn't get that question, and I think it's been long enough, from April this year to today, to answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11533	Thank you. We are going to point (b) of point 2. (b) New Agents' Issues
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11534	Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11535	Thank you, Chairman. I won't ask the question and I won't explain it. I want to, just to say briefly that I want to launch an initiative, which is to assign the Council of Ministers to form an inter-resor working group that will prepare and deliver to the parliamentary procedure of the draft law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts. It's in the shortest, so here's an initiative explained. I'll predaću her over in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11536	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11537	Thank you very much. My question is about the problems that have arisen recently and concerns a large number of fires in the country. Thus, it is known that the Armed Forces helicopters were not sufficiently engaged in the fires of the past period. They failed to fulfil the basics, so the Armed Forces were not fulfilling their basic task in peace, which is to help civil society. According to the Ministry of Security, armed forces helicopters weren't engaged in fire-fighting enough because they were on a remont and they lacked fuel for it. Since the evidence suggests that these are not the real reasons why the civilian population is left without support this time, I ask that the defence minister answer me the following questions. 1) With how many helicopters and which, named types and quantities per type, are provided by the Armed Forces of BiH, which can be involved in helping the local population, i.e. for fire extinguishers and assistance in winter conditions? 15 2) How many of these are the right helicopters that are ready to be helped at any time? 3) How many helicopters were on the remont in July and August 2012? Where's the remont done? So what's been remounted to them, so what's the level of the remont? When's the remont start and when's it over? How many helicopters were remounted at the same time? ( 4) Why were only two helicopters short hired and only one part of the time? Are those two helicopters excluded from the remont? Why aren't they replaced by a new one? 5) And finally, what is the value of the balance sheet – the fuel for the helicopters was planned for 2012, and how much was that value on the day 13/08/2012? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11538	Thank you. Dear colleague Senad Šepić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11539	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Here, I have two questions. It was first addressed to the Council of Ministers – the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. So, please provide me with information on the process for issuing a visa for the United States to my diplomatic passport, so on behalf of Senad Šepić, at the end of July, and who, by whose order and by whose purpose, has illegally transferred my personal data and made it possible to access my personal data to some of the media in BiH? Reason: So in the regular procedure, I handed over a passport to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for a visa. He filled out the application form, so that after a few days in a daily newspaper, he could draw a title on the visa issue procedure, and on the personal documentation from our service run by Service Secretary Buljubašić Buljubašić, as well as documents from the embassy of the country for which I requested a visa. After a few days, the media re-published my personal data in the media. This time also an internal correspondence from the foreign ministry, run by Minister Zlatko Lagumdžija. Since the data that are in the process of processing for employees are, as is known, an official secret, and that in this way I have been violated by the right to privacy, in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Personal Data, BiH will submit an objection to the competent institution and seek responsibility for those who have violated the provisions of this Act. I also expect this Parliamentary Assembly to relieve executives who instead of protecting personal data and protecting us as citizens of this country, protecting the interests of citizens and employees, they violate the law and create mistrust and uncertainty in the institutions of the state to which they themselves belong. And the second question is to the Council of Ministers and the College of Both Homes, so: – Why so far is it not and when will the Council of Ministers and other institutions deliver materials for a special session of both homes on the level of compliance with the conditions and the European path of BiH, and why does the College of both homes not set a time for holding this session to discuss these issues? 16 A brief explanation: This is one of the issues that we have the greatest agreement on, and we have already discussed this in previous sessions, and we have commissioned the Council of Ministers... to prepare us for this session, so I think we should have an initiative here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11540	Thank you. Dear MP Zijad, first deputy chairman, Mr Božo Ljubić, he reported earlier, that's correct.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11541	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So I'm starting a representative initiative. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I am delivering this parliamentary initiative to the BiH Parliamentary House of Representatives' Rules of Procedure, and it says: The Council of Ministers' proposal to decide on a seasonal ban on imports of certain agricultural products. Reason: The aim of this initiative is to make a decision by the Council of Ministers on the seasonal ban on imports of agricultural products produced by our producers in sufficient quantities for the domestic market, so that they can sell their goods and thus reduce imports of these goods. In this way, they would provide business security to domestic producers, increase employment and cut import costs and improve the country's overall balance of payments. According to statistics, it is evident that at certain times the BiH season can fully meet the needs of numerous agricultural products. At the same time, in these periods large quantities of the same products are imported, which is why domestic goods cannot be found by the buyer. According to the BiH Statistics Agency in 2012 import coverage in the agricultural industrial sector is only 25%. And this sector participates in BiH's overall deficit by 29.3%. In particular, imports of the most significant 11 agricultural products in BiH whose value exceeds 88 million KM and the foreign exchange deficit of these products are 52 million in the same year. So the deficit is 52 million. 12 million tomatoes, melon and watermelon, 14 million, 7 million wine grapes. So, just some where the deficit was made because it was paid on imported goods something that was possible to produce here and what was produced and which unfortunately often fell apart. Our governments give money incentives to farmers, and on the other hand they choke the domestic market by allowing imports and those products that there are enough and during the period when there are most. This makes multiple damage to producers and the balance of payments of the state. We all know that BiH has a major external trade deficit and that the deficit is increasing. The agreement BiH has on free trade with CEFTA allows, I am now quoting from the CEFTA Agreement, given the particular sensitivity of the agricultural market if imports of products originating in one side cause market disturbances or domestic regulatory mechanisms on the other side will immediately enter into consultations to find a suitable solution. In the expectation of such a solution, the party concerned may take appropriate measures that it deems necessary. That means both seasonal contingents and bans. Also, I quote again, when one side has serious problems with the balance of payments, and ours are more than serious, or it is unambiguously threatened by the relation party can adopt restrictive import measures on the 17... basis with VTO provisions. Such measures will, in particular, be limited duration. So I'm only talking about seasonal measures and seasonal contingents, Article 25. I therefore believe that there is an economic and financial need for a decision to ban temporary imports of certain agricultural products, and the international agreements BiH has with both CEFTA and with, under the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, allow it. So that should be used.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11542	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11543	The Honorable Chairman, co-chaired, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, guests, the media. I have three parliamentary questions for today that are somehow related to the answers I have received over the past 15-20 days. However, I'm glad that I've managed to be at some top so I won't wait because everything in fear that, besides the Minister of Transport and Communications, he won't leave, and my wish is to hear what I've just prepared. One of the questions is the Directorate for European Integrations, which reads: – What rules in the areas of road, rail, air, postal, telecommunications and water transport in BiH have so far been in line with European directives and past the necessary procedures, which are not yet and why are they not? Question of the Ministry of Transport and Communications: – What about the Law on Postages, the Law on Obligation Relations in Civil Aviation, the Law on Public Roads, the Law on International and Interentity Navigation of BiH, the Law on the Maritime Good and Maritime Navigation of BiH, the Law on Electronic Communications, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Railways of BiH? And when are we going to get the above mentioned for consideration in the parliamentary procedure? Since I had already asked 3.5.4 months ago what about transport policy, i.e. transport policy and the Transport Strategy in BiH, so far I have not received an answer, so I would ask Mr. Deputy to try to do everything he can in this regard, because these issues are currently relevant. And the third question concerns, addressed to the Council of Ministers: – What are the state bodies of BiH, the ministries, agencies, services, responsible for the development of the environment and civil protection policy, and what are their effects? Is there a strategy and specific measures at BiH level that protects the entire population and the environment from excessive rainfall, floods, fires, droughts, pollution, poisoning and epidemics, since it is known that six months ago we had problems with excessive snow when there was a simple complete blockade or paralysis of transport throughout the country? We've had fires, now we have, or droughts, now we've got fires, tomorrow the most likely epidemics, infections, pollutions will come, and therefore I ask the Council of Ministers to seriously consider this and to answer these questions. Thank you. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11544	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11545	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you all together. I have three parliamentary questions. First of them, I'm setting up a Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH. He told BiH Direct Taxation Directorate Director Miro Džakula in a statement to a daily newspaper in BiH that the proposal to amend the law that will allow the publication of the names of taxpayers will be held at the next meeting of the Management Board of Management, which will be held in the next 15 days. I wonder how companies that are taxpayers will be treated and managed by the state? In particular, who will be responsible and what kind of business they own, for example, The Federation of BiH, as is the case with Agrokomerco of the Great Cladus and other similar companies? The second question is for the Ministry of Interior of the UN-Sancanton. Several months ago, several stationary radars were installed in the USK area to control the speed of traffic participants. I want to know what the total purchase costs and setting up these radars are, what are the financial effects in terms of paid speeding penalties, and what is most important – how did setting these radars affect the reduction of the number of traffic accidents? And I ask for benchmarks for the past three years for the January-August period including 2012 for the number of car accidents, so in this period? The third question is for the entity education ministries and for the education ministries in the Federation of BiH cantons: – What can be done to depolitise education in BiH and is there any way to legally prohibit policy involvement in education? Today, we have a situation that, with the change of government at a certain level, changes in school management structures in terms of changing the directors of school boards and so on, which seems immeasurable to education that should be protected from politics and politics as I am being exposed to today. This problem is becoming increasingly obvious to the extent that certain influential embassies from other countries in our country have also felt the need to react to this problem. And it's not a problem that these embassies are reacting, but the problem is that in this way, we can freely say, it's poisoning in our country, which should never be the subject of any calculations and influence other than the influence of the profession and modern practice when it comes to education. Today we have a situation that is more important to the issue of which, in a party sense, will be the head of the school than having children attend school in the conditions of the appropriate 60th century, and that is simply unacceptable. I also ask that my questions be repeated, at the 29th session, I asked the BiH Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees about the work of the International Organisation for Migration in Sarajevo, I did not get an answer, therefore. I also didn't get an answer from the Directorate of Direct Taxation regarding the transfer of the customs terminal from Agrokomerc's company in Velika Klamuda to the premises of the private company in Velika Kladhua for which it is questionable whether it meets the conditions for the installation of the customs terminal and whether it meets the conditions in the case of secondary infrastructure? Thank you, and I'm sorry I oversold my time. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11546	Thank you. Dear colleague Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11547	Thank you, Mr. President. I submitted an initiative to the Council of Ministers on 8 September 2011. The initiative concerned the initiation of procedures in order to declare August 23rd the day of memory of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. On that occasion, I addressed the Council of Ministers to the Resolution, quoting the Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarian Arrangements adopted by the European Parliament on 2 April 2009. The resolution calls on EU members, EU candidate countries, as well as all countries that co-operate with EU countries to do the same, so as to adopt an identical resolution and declare on August 23rd the day of memory of victims of all totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. Since I have not received any feedback from the Council of Ministers over the past year, I have been asking this opportunity to the Council: – What is the status of this initiative, is it accepted or rejected, so that I can take other steps depending on the response? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11548	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11549	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. In my comments on the answers to the questions asked, I have already announced this question. So I'm repeating my earlier question, something a little bit more detailed, and I'm going to add one thing. So, the question of the BiH Council of Ministers is: – At what stage are activities on the conclusion or conclusion of a state border contract between BiH and neighbouring countries? What are the problems and are they solved? All issues need to be listed, then BiH's stance and neighbouring countries' views on the same. I am particularly interested in whether the issue of Sutorina and Kruševica is problematicd during negotiations with Montenegro? If so, if not for what? I added this to this earlier issue because in the Bosnian Herzegovina public, this issue is present, and I want the Council of Ministers to answer this question to clarify once with a view to seeing where BiH is and how things stand. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11550	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 20
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11551	One short question for the Ministry of Finance: – How much were interest due to the delay in service of the international obligations achieved in early 2012?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11552	Thank you. And the honourable Messenger Slavko Jovičić, as last reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11553	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear representatives of the Council of Ministers welcome ministers who have been and gone, respected representatives of NGOs, of course both the media and colleagues and colleagues. I am renewing the parliamentary question, which I asked four years ago, I have renewed it once more, but here I am going to do it the third time, and I am going to go after that logic of third time, to have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs deliver me a list of names when, in which time and which diplomatic passports have been issued and which are still in force, so valid passports for certain persons, and that they have been issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Also, under b) – there are official passports. Well, according to me, BiH has more diplomatic representatives than politicians, so it has drawn closer to the number of citizens. So I'd like to have that list, or names, and my colleagues have it too, because being a diplomat is not a simple thing, and getting a diplomatic passport according to these procedures as they are, it looks like the easiest thing to do, so those two are not compatible and it's collapsing. So, to know exactly who has diplomatic status, who can travel through that passport or on that passport on the basis of when it represents the country, and not on a diplomatic passport on an exotic island and I don't know where. And not to mention official, so someone comes here to Parliament, so half of Parliament doesn't have everyone on official travel. When will you be at work? When I tell you, I don't apostrophe anyone, so I could use that list to see who's moving. So I'm asking, and last year I renewed this question, asked it four years ago, so here I hope by the end of my term that I will still get that answer. I'm not asking now, this is an election month to hurry, because nobody's doing anything and stopping things like this, but I'm going to run for another question crucial to this whole thing, it can be like an initiative, if we're going to be human, but you're going to see it at the next points, I'm going to talk about them, what are the survival parameters of this country's life and future, so when these points of the agenda, I'm going to pay more attention to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11554	Here, we also have subsequent applications. Dear Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11555	Mr. Chairman is not a later application. I ask you to appreciate that Mr Adnan Bašić cannot apply for the discussion due to the obvious malfunction on his devices, even his vote on the agenda has not been recorded. And that application 21 Staša Košarac comes from a device that is in front of Mr. Bašić. We kindly ask you to give Mr. Bašić your word, he answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11556	I would also take that as a well-intentioned criticism if I could have known all of it, thanking you for explaining where Staša Košarac's application came from. I asked the service to check it out, they didn't find it, so we finally got to it. Dear Ambassador Adnan Bašić, here's your name now, so that's regulated. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11557	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I'm embarrassed, I'm really embarrassed, I don't see it, until they notice it's not my name there. You know the situation I'm in. I received answers to the parliamentary initiative and the parliamentary question. I'm actually not happy with the answer. I am sorry, I have sought to launch with my and my parliamentary initiative and the question something that is vital and certainly of interest to people, not a purely political issue, but really of vital importance, not only for a local environment such as the town of Kakanj, which and how it should be after the dirty industry that has been imposed on him long ago, but also for all of us. We need such facilities as the Banja climate spa Ticici, you all know very well. I doubt anyone in this room has ever gone that way for once and watched as the vastly convenient wealth we've been offered simply collapses. And that's why I started it. But the answers I got were purely techno-burocrat, administrative-burocrat, after all, it looks like we've outdone Potenkin himself, he's at least been making façades physically for his own, for his village, and we're doing it out of paper. So I didn't get anything concrete in that answer. The answer only consists of discussions being held, discussions being held, decisions being made, yes, the composition of the commission, that subcommittee decisions were made. But not a single word in the papers they buried me with has anything in particular about when the realisation of the project has been in administrative bureaucratic drawers for more than three decades. So there's no concrete answer when real realization begins. Now by building a new route, the new highway is now blocked and that approach we had before. So, again, a new complication, and who in Bog's name is going to break down a brand-new highway because of three, four pipelines that go through there? So no one thought of it, in other words, it seems that we were all baffled by some kind of administrative and bureaucratic promise that was never fulfilled by the town of Kakanj, and of course the Federation, so BiH will not get something as beautiful and good as it could and how quickly it would have been done. I'm not satisfied with the simple answer, so don't get angry. And it seems to me, I'm sorry, gentlemen, but I'm telling you something human, I don't see it, and I know that it was done in the '80s, the private initiative wasn't waiting for this, people rolled up their sleeves dug up the transparent pools, made transparent catering facilities, lambs turned around, swimming pools filled up, steamed up, and we're looking at it. And now that I ask that question, there's a hallmark around me about why I'm asking, so you have an answer. I don't have any answers, and I'm not going to ask any more after all. It's just that there's still something on my mind, the damn Bosnian-known IMT keybinding, it doesn't seem to have been solved, it looks like there's the key to everything. Thank you very much. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11558	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the third point, Ad. 3. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives The Proposer of the Council of Ministers submitted the bill to the preliminary procedure on 27.08. with a request for an urgent procedure. I'm opening a debate on an emergency procedure request, and I'm asking the promoter if there's a need for an explanation? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11561	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. I understand the need for this issue to be resolved as soon as possible because it is a matter of defining the procedure for selecting members of the Agency's Council, the Regulatory Agency which is responsible for these other matters, such as the choice of supervisory, or management boards of public broadcasters to whom we are, here today, that is, to extend the mandate by who knows which time and so on. And don't get into that chain circuit, we're in danger of having everything illegal. I understand the need to resolve this as soon as possible, but by reading this bill which is intended to be considered by emergency procedure, or Article 127, I think it would be very bad given both the formal and the essential objections to this Law. Because in a formal sense, there are some technical mistakes that need to be fixed and we don't have the opportunity unless we have a chance to make amendments. And as for fundamentally, we are in danger of being charged by those who are following, or who are monitoring everything that is going on in BiH, that we possibly want to put the regulator under control, under political control. For this reason, I propose, here on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDA, that this be not a member of 127, but that it be a member of 126, and that this Law be considered in a shortened procedure. We're not gonna waste much time, but I think we're gonna get quality.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11562	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11563	Thank you very much. About my proposal is moving towards the predecessors, because it is truly amazing that an institution that, which I know, has been passed 10 years ago and that this House has reached countless times so far concluded that it is necessary to adopt a new or amended Communication Act as soon as possible, that we have not so far had the opportunity to deal with it and that, whoever it was at its head, has been deafened by the need to create a new Communication Act and we are getting a proposal that suggests that the lack of a provision amending this bill has stopped the process of appointing members of the Board of Regulatory Agency. And if this answer had arrived two years or over three years ago as it was, when it was, I would have realized it was normal. But now to write such an argument, respecting that we all know what's going on with the Regulatory Agency, especially with the election of members of the Council, but also to require an emergency procedure I don't think it really makes sense. I suggest, therefore, that this law goes according to a shortened procedure, but at the same time to assign the Council of Ministers to, in due course, define a deadline, that it has to do a new Communication Act, because this no longer meets the essence or form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11564	Thank you. Dear colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11565	Thank you, Chairman. My view is similar to the predecessors, that this is quite problematic and that it has taken up a lot of space in both this Parliament and the Commission, this issue is essentially unresolved, especially when it comes to the Regulatory Agency. In fact, we have discussed this issue on several occasions on the committee, of course in order to find some solutions, but that the Regulatory Agency should not be under political review, although it is almost a complete administration under political law that should not be. We're going to have to change a lot of things when we meet the conditions for joining the European Community, especially in the administration, I don't want to talk about it right now. But here we must find one rational smart, wise solution. So none of the organs within the state structure, any other structure, can be out of control, so that's the basic principle. The judiciary can't be out of control. The layman accepts the fact that courts are saying independent, it's not true, it's nonsense. The courts are independent in their work, and they are not independent of this Parliament that they cannot express their critical reflections towards it, I take the courts as the most orthodox form of independence. Likewise, the Regulatory Agency cannot be out of control of this Parliament and therefore I agree with my predecessors that I am not even going through the emergency procedure, that this matter be taken seriously by the Council of Ministers and considered and to find some modality which will not allow the self-will of the Regulatory Agency. Now it's willful, and we watch it all and sit in these benches. I sometimes wonder why we're sitting here at all. Sometimes I try to make a smart suggestion, but no one, no one, no one deafens, will accept it. 24 So I don’t even know if it goes in accordance with Article 26(?) Or to go into regular procedure, I think it would be more useful. To make serious changes and additions, and to focus on putting exactly that Regulatory Agency, she is not Bog of gods. So let's not take independence in absolute terms, this organ doesn't exist that it's independent in absolute terms, looking from a legal point of view. So everyone is subject to control absolutely, especially if Parliament has a share, participates in its appointment, and has an indirect. Therefore, some kind of Parliament's participation must be without political control. If there is a work disturbance at the Regulatory Agency or the Council, then of course Parliament must intervene. But this work disorder should be taxed – what is it that causes the participation, or reaction of this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11566	Thank you. I needed to report on this agenda point, but here's the thing, just for a little while. Apparently, in Parliament, most MPs feel that this law will not be able to go according to procedure 127. I'm letting this ministry think about this going according to regular procedures. We can change according to their request, and if it goes into a regular and shortened procedure, only one member, that's Article 39(2). We can't change the whole law according to the normative rules so far. I am telling the ministry to propose other solutions or solutions that so far have entity parliaments. You see how it was solved in the Federation of BiH. It is decided that Parliament of the Federation solves this in Parliament. A mix was made here between the Council of Ministers and Parliament. That mix is too complicated to even get these seven members. Let us simplify this procedure, let us take this Parliament's responsibility for it and that everything that needs to be put to Parliament, and not that you send us that we either accept it and do not accept it, we return to you, we form an ad commission, and you provide us with a list, it just doesn't work, it's too complicated to function. Take over from the Federal Parliament their proposal and let us do it here as soon as possible, if necessary. A proposal like this for 127 won't be able to pass. Thank you. I'm closing the hearing, no more reports. And we're moving on, Ad. 4. Ismete Dervoz's request for consideration of the amendment law and amendments to Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law under a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives Ismet Dervoz sent the bill to the parliamentary procedure on 04.09. with a request to be considered under a shortened procedure. I'm opening a debate on a request for a brief procedure. Is there a need for a proposing to explain? 25 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11571	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal refers to the alignment of the original Law with the Law on Gender Equality, and I think it is clear from the reasons what these amendments want to achieve. According to the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality in BiH, gender equality exists if one of the sexes is represented at least 40%. In the current solutions we have differences in the Electoral Law and the Law on Gender Equality, one prescribes 33% of the other rules 40%. And as a decision has already been made earlier on, it is recommended that all BiH-level laws comply with the Law on Gender Equality, this is one of those requirements. I am putting up with the initiative for a few weeks too late, so that it could possibly be reflected in the current election process, but judging by how much time we have already spent trying to bring the amendments to the Election Law through various committees and at various levels of consultation, I would like to contribute in this way to respecting the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality and thanking us for that.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11572	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11573	So I could really understand this procedure proposed, shortened, that she could, that she could get to the opening elections. Thus, it is excluded, and the Law is in effect that 26 was proposed on the eighth day of the day of publication and would cause real interference if this Law was adopted. I suggest this law goes into regular procedure as well. I think there will be some more demands to repair some more members, so there is no reason to shorten the procedure because it cannot reach the elections of this one, and yet political parties need to look at it and make a statement about it first. I ask you fellow Members to accept in that sense that a regular procedure would help us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11574	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11575	She was regular, she was cut short for him no light days, and if there's any political will until after the local elections as things stand with the calendar. So if we adopt this shortened procedure today, I don't see that there's a session to be held until the election, so there's a House of Peoples. So, I had to say this, because if this law were passed before the election then there would be a problem. So, it's not a problem that you need to rush to be before, the lists have gone all over, the election process is in progress. So it doesn't matter to me whether this is short or regular, no matter what we adopt, it will end up being a regular procedure, given this Parliament's plan. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11576	With full respect to my colleagues, Džaferović would like to remind you and everyone that, in the case of this House, the adoption of requests for a shortened procedure obliges us to have business provisions, both for everyone, and for the president of the commission, so that regardless of when the Assembly will be appointed, he must schedule a session of committees according to these business provisions. So if we want to relax this situation, it's much better to go into a regular than to a shortened procedure. That's what I'm saying about the previous law. And since BiH is in political, let me say, one independent moment, no one knows when the next assembly will be scheduled, perhaps this month. We also have a request for the replacement of the foreign minister, business 30 days at the latest, the Assembly must be scheduled. Therefore, bear in mind that when we vote on initiatives to be bound by business provisions. Thank you. Dear colleague Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11577	...I think I've already said in a brief explanation that I think the initiative on my part should have come a few weeks earlier, but in any case it indicates that there are problems in harmonising the law. The electoral law is very important, gender equality is something that I want to insist on in this Parliamentary Assembly in every respect and on every occasion. With this 27, I accept absolutely the proposals and initiative of my colleagues that the law goes into regular procedure, and I want this way and in this election process to make it known that it is necessary, necessary and mandatory to bring the Election Law into line with the Law on Gender Equality in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11578	Thank you. No more reports. Moving to point five, Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) At the 32nd session of the House, held on 19th of July, the bill was adopted in the first reading. 04.09.The Joint Commission for Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Asylum and Ethics submitted a Report with an adopted one amendment that becomes an integral part of the text. In the meantime, we've also received the Ministry of Security's opinion on this adopted amendment, which means they're okay with it. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. There are no reports. I want you to close the debate. We're going to the sixth point, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11583	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So it's about the matter we know and that has been contained in two laws so far. This is an attempt to get rid of it in a unique way, and I appreciate it, so the Department of Justice on that plan. There are certain questions we need to analyze, to consider. This is also indicated by those who are following Parliament's work, including the non-governmental sector, and therefore, when we, by the majority of votes on the Constitutional Commission, established constitutional basis and supported principles, said that if we came to this business stage, which is, therefore, the adoption of the Law in the first reading, we have a commitment to maintain a parliamentary public debate on the law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11584	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11585	I'll be very brief, so we absolutely support the need to pass a law like this and we'd be more pleased if we had both new laws at the same time as proposals because it's about making two out of one. And now we have a partially done job, so we don't know what this whole project will look like because we don't currently have a proposed Foundation Act. So we will support in the first reading in order to allow possible and organised public debates. Now, at this point, we can put some remarks on conceptual nature because it's a debate in the first reading. This law is more like one, one kind of agreement, of a kind, as I would say, regulation of certain types of volunteering. Because you see this Article 1 says -- that the law applies to those who choose to register at BiH level. So it doesn't come from the assumption that there is and that it's logical that there are organizations and so on. which operate at BiH level, rather than say – if they choose. Or, for example, Article 4 that says: registration in the register of the association is voluntary. So he's pretty elastic, so to speak, and he's probably the result of some compromises and some, probably some unwillingness to and any sort of thing at BiH level. But here, let's see, let me not prejudge, so we'll support him in this first reading, so we'll see, in the amendment phase, if there's anything we can do to get him serious, so to speak. 29
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11586	Thank you. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to comment on this law. Since the promoter had no need to decide regarding this Law that certain clarifications I also want you to turn the same law, which is called the Law on Associations and Foundations, into one law, in which in transitional provisions you are asking for the provisions of the Belkić to be implemented Beriz though the Law was put out of force, and that at the same time... I ask the Minister and the Ministry – was there ever such a situation in BiH where the two substances treated by one law suggest that they be separated and treated by one law of one substance, and that it continues to function and work other matter in the Law in which you have put into effect in the transitional provisions? Is it ever this way in this country, or is it new, some principle of ministry work, to tell us since it started and what legal projects in other countries are possible? I don't see any consultations here, except that they've been consulted, with whom they've been conducted? Have they also been implemented with entity ministries, do you have the consent of the entity-level justice ministries to go in this way and this way to propose an amendment to this law? A worse situation than the lack of law by the ministries for any reason is to deliver the laws in this way, to drop out of their hands and to give Parliament to deal with something that Parliament was not at all guilty of doing. We're not the ones to determine whether this law is in line with the normative acts that came out of the ministry, but if we did, then we tell you these laws can't be sent into the process. This is a typical example of getting the problem out of your hands, so what happens, not taking the law, not taking the solutions you think are best for the law. I don't think that practice is good, and I wouldn't want it to continue. Thank you. Dear fellow Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11587	Thank you. I decided to once again state my position regarding this Law on Associations, first and foremost, through Article 10. Since in my life and work so far, I have had the opportunity to be also a member, and founder, and president of the association, and the Supervisory Board, the board of directors and so on, I still have the dilemma really, is it possible that three people, including even between those three, could one be even 16 years old, to establish an association. Well, we can only imagine that it'll be like mushrooms after the rain of the association when we adopt this. I believe that, if we look realistically, for the basic functions and actions of one association like this, that the board of directors, the supervisory board, or, let's say, the court of honor, depends on the association, it takes at least three people. However, we need to have a commission for every thing, that is, the credentials. In order not to be all three in all positions, I don't know how it's going to work, or I can only imagine that there's going to be one general confusion or subject to all the possible unwanted things that we want to avoid in some way. I believe and argue that between 12 and 15 members in one association if it does not have all that left, and in particular three members, I believe that this is one big one, I know that the focus of European organisations and in some way looks at that associations have to come to their senses as much as possible, or that they can be aware of as little as possible, 30 so this number is proposed, I believe that this is extremely, in my opinion, inappropriately, will not be reflected and will not give the effects that we expect. And in essence, all members and such a bill are not controversial, but through this Article 10 alone, I believe that, in my opinion, the greatest dilemma and the biggest problems will arise from this article. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11588	Thank you. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11589	Honored chairman and distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, we discussed this in the last term, but not in this way and the suggestions, as you said. It's really the best example of how we got one material that one law even if we adopted it and left the one that was in force. But here we have to separate two things and it's quite clear, the abuse of the establishment of these associations. It's about commercial associations, although each one says when they register, non-profit, non-governmental, non-political, I don't know what the conditions still need to be fulfilled and three people are joined, established, registered and the sooner the better electronician on the site to see which government from another country gives money and then they're an association. And I've asked in my last term that associations should start those who have members, so an interested association and organizations that will represent their membership, so that I don't count so I don't hurt anyone, that someone doesn't find himself offended. But there are associations here one thing I say about another when they come to the agenda I'm going to talk about, the best example for you is this, 275 there were registered associations and some foundations with our ministry that the minister didn't blame at all, of course there's no talking about it, and apparently some donations were brought here, they did something. And now that we're looking for them, they're nowhere to be found. They're not even in the register, and Interpol can't find them either. What the people would say is, I always speak in people's language because I don't like Parliament to look like the Academy of Science and Art, to bite off money. They did something, you can't say they didn't, people, but they're gone. Well, they didn't come here because they like Slavko Jovičić to help him, which they like, I don't know who to name myself, but they did something to them. And that's why today, I'm not against the association, I come from the NGO sector, but the non-governmental sector that has membership behind it. And your best example is these passionate artists. Three people registered the association and now they represent who's going to pay for those tantems, what's it called, and who's going to play a song. I won't listen to any of them. That's what associations are to you. So it's important to gather three people, and before that, you have a good intuition or some counselor who's going to tell you, these are the most money for such an area, so register here, and that's where you're not representing anyone and you don't have a single member that's the least important. That's why these are, this is a very important law. There are huge problems in this country. I repeat, I support the NGO sector. But when I see a representative of the so-called. associations and says, corruption in BiH or BiH 126th place in the world, then I wonder where I live. Where the one who said that, and here, don't blame me, no one in the jargon, I don't have that kind of free expression, will that answer for what he's done? What are his parameters, which research, where he did it, where he was doing it, is he a court, is he a prosecutor's office, where he, who he's gathering with, did someone from abroad, order him to say so? Now, these are your associations. That's why, Mr. Chairman, you've said this perfectly, not because you're the chairman, but also the colleagues who spoke well, that this should come back and make two 31 laws that we separate, here's about associations and foundations, but that on the same day they step in and not now that this election month, so these will come out of the NGO sector -- yeah, these guys don't want us to criticise there and we'll stand up for another political option. They're also politically engaged. How they're not if they're criticizing anyone in Parliament. It is known whose MP I am and which party I represent. I didn't fall off Mars, so nobody knows my generals or I don't know any colleagues. Now, these are your foundations and organizations. And we've never been able, which the previously respected professor said Kunić, everything here is independent. ...independence. And everyone depends on us to criticize us as much as I can and ask them to do so when they have reasons and grounds. But will anyone ever give me information – who funds more of these NGOs associations? Where do they have open accounts except in BiH? How much are their receipts? What is their contribution to improving the overall situation in BiH? Except they'll say -- those MPs in Parliament took that kind of pay, took these benefits, took this, that. Now, that's this non-governmental sector in this form, and the other one behind which membership stands, so let me mention it as they are, and it's always the law, the sanctity, the families of the dead, the victims of the war and other associations, and I'm going to give them support too. But there's no hunting society to walk the Jahorina to catch anything. They won't find anything up there. That's the kind of association that's formed everywhere. That's why I'd like to ask a respected minister who's really doing it great, but to take into account what we said today, and to make those two separate laws. We're not gonna be late for anything, nothing. He's 10 years old and we're discussing these problems, someone before me, here I am for six years. So, to get this back and make those two laws. And once again, let's repeat whether Parliament has the power to speak publicly, and there is, there is nothing here independent people. The fact that Professor Kunić cited it as an eclectic example earlier, I want an independent judiciary. And what does it mean? That no one can interfere with how much a criminal will be punished. It's not my job, nor will I ever do it, but it can't be independent when we need to set a budget and ask us for money for this and for that. And then, again, I'm going back to the NGOs that I've always supported, but I can't stand 15 NGOs in my city anymore, in my city. When I ask where, 15 sports organizations, two coaches were at the same club fighting, which this little stronger than him was in karate, the one who formed the club, the one who formed his own club. And now they're an NGO, they're now a community of citizens, they're this now, and nobody's alive to find a brand to fund them but a house to my door, you got the best pay to help us. Now, these are your associations and your foundations. So, Mr. Minister, I respect, of course, all the members, all the colleagues, to return this in a way, so that what my colleague Majkić was saying, and everyone who spoke, and that's the same story to you, to prepare those two laws. We won't be late, believe me. And I don't speak to you personally because I'm looking at you, but I respect you very much, because I'm better looking at you than I'm looking up at the display for how many minutes, but here I am.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11590	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11591	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, members of the Council of Ministers, distinguished guests. Well, this is about a proposal and a debate as we normally practice, and we usually discuss more about what's not at all in the proposal than what's in the proposal. Here we have a proposal for a law, the Law on BiH Associations, but we are discussing who, why, which is the motives of 32 founders of associations, who finance, who are the motives of funding associations, how much money revolves in associations, which is absolutely not the subject of regulation of this law. This law, so I am experiencing the proposal's intention, had the need for what is called the non-governmental sector, which is called voluntary, which is written here finely in the law, the association of natural persons or legal persons who want to deal with certain issues of their own or public interest and has only one restriction, not to work against the Constitution and the law and must not work against the integrity, sovereignty and territorial integrity of BiH. So he can't work against the state, he can't work against the Constitution, he can't work against the law, and it's allowed wherever people have interest to organize themselves and act as they think they should, is it normal in accordance with the law. And what was tried as well to be said as a deficiency, as a flaw, is even allowed for people called older minors, meaning people over the age of 16 that they can join associations. And I don't see what the problem is. The problem is if someone is doing what they do to meet their goals, not the goals of associations, pays those associations to work in his interest, but it's not the associations' fault, it's the ones who give them the money they're doing for them. So I don't think we mix pears and apples. I welcome the way this issue is regulated in this law, and here, I think it's a good thing it's a special law, which goes by special law to define the position, way of establishment, work, registration and so on. association. I think it's a much more demanding issue of the organization and the functioning of the foundation. And I think it is very clear in the transitional provisions – the provisions of the so far law concerning the association cease to apply, the law continues to apply in the section concerning the foundation. And I don't see what's going on here. It's clearly indicated. We can declare our support for civil society, we've given support, but in ourselves or secretly try to put all of them under our own control. Normally, we get angry if they don't want to be under our control, if they show a minimum of independence and if they show that they really want to act as a civil society. This law does not define the establishment of public institutions, meaning it does not define it, so I do not see any reason why we should have rigid restrictions and why we should now have three youth or youth, a boy and girls who are 17 years old and tend to music, form their own association and play. What's the problem? They need to be conditioned, they need to collect 150 others who are not interested in it at all. I mean, it means condemning them that they can't register. Not to speak, here's the mention of sports associations. What's the problem? So instead of encouraging it, the other problem is that we don't encourage it, that we don't create such assumptions, conditions, etc., but let's not at least make it impossible for people to organise themselves. I welcome the principles of this law, so I welcome the principles of this law, and I support the principles of this law, and I invite you, here in the background of which I tried to present this law, I ask that we give our support to this law. This law is not dangerous for anyone, but it's good for me, it means good, because in a good way it's liberalized what's called civil society, the possibility of function, organization and everything else that's related to the concept of the formation of associations as part of civil society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11592	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Bursać. Here you go. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11593	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome you and everyone present in the O.R. Well, let me say a few things, I think I can practically help with this law and take advantage of Mr. Secretary's presence while he's here to say a few things. Maybe I'll step away from the subject itself, but I just want to say a few words in front of this House, since I have some personal experiences about the association. I absolutely support part of the story, as Mr. Lozančić said, that no one should be held back in the organization. In particular, young people should not be hindered because we know that always some small group of people can form an association and very good quality to work, very good quality to contribute to their local community, society at all, so that I am absolutely not to challenge anyone in any way to team up and organize. Yes, it does. It means everything one association has to have and in this way it struggles for itself and through its work to help society. However, I would also go back to a part of the story where Mr. Jovičić is cautious, and he needs to be careful, so absolutely we can't and should not challenge anyone to organize and create their own association, but there are associations that very quickly from the association grow into something else. Here, let me tell you, I've been involved in politics in my local community a long time ago and in co-operation with the NGO sector, with NGOs, slowly these associations are starting to politicise. That's what's wrong. Whoever has money attracts them to their side, whoever has money lobbys them to work for them, whoever has money, means a true association to the larger and to their members in some easy way suggests that who they should vote for, who they should work for on the ground. They help, meaning political parties to promote themselves. You probably know that the NGO is organizing a debate between some political parties everywhere, on some subject of this, on some. The topic is mostly set up by a political party. This topic is often set up by an individual who is willing to pay off such an association, that it deals with this subject where he is strong and where he will collect some points. Not to tell you that these associations invite similar people to someone, call the media somewhere and, of course, push some politics again, promote something, there, there. So I think that, as much as a solution can be issued, solutions should be issued, absolutely alone for solutions to be issued, but also, however solutions are issued, I think there should be much stronger mechanisms for these solutions to be withdrawn, to simply put an end to those associations. However any journalist may or may have the opportunity to say anything, of course, but if the Regulatory Agency recognizes that he has spoken something or somewhere that does not correspond to his profession and his place where he is, of course he can punish him, it is also necessary to punish individuals. We can and we don't have to punish. I suggest you pay attention in that section. It means that if someone from the association calculates, in this way speculates, if it organizes, if it creates an association for, God Bog, some terrorist activity, and in BiH we all know it, it means that it can be automatically excluded or given some temporary solution that will put off the work of an association and so on. I think there's a lot to take into account about that. I think, in that context, you should be in charge of someone in your ministry, not to mention creating a team that can and must hold back that kind of thing. We must not allow associations to become our extended hands of political parties, extended hands of terrorist organisations, extended hands of some people who are calculating in any way, earning money and calling for associations. I think we have a mass of associations that are doing fantastically well, which are of general benefit and general well-being in BiH, otherwise in local communities, 34 in entities and so on, and these people need to be helped. But we've got the same thing that's on the other side of people who break it all up. Of course, I didn't want to interpret this legally. I just wanted to suggest this as an MP. As far as the law is concerned, I also have nothing against him, but please, it means that you're making sure that more and more attempts to take away solutions from those people who are all associations, the way their statutes predicted, means they're not anymore. So, if he writes to them in the statutes one thing is to stick to the statutes, not to do Bog knows what and Bog knows where. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11594	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11595	Thank you very much. Let me say a few words on this subject even though I'm sure this is the third or fourth time we've dealt with this topic. I really think that, that citizens' associations can be considered one of the foundations of democracy. That civil society serves as a correction of power, but it is in developed democracies. For several years, we, therefore, have even been discussing this subject for several years, and today we are no closer to solving than we have been to previous councils. Why? First of all, I think that part of it is already listed in the very explanation, because it says that about the chaotic state that is being ruled by BiH where the NGO sector is perceived as a place where it can be well earned and worked and operated. In a way that is never possible in other countries to imagine that it is possible to operate in the non-governmental sector, it is possible in BiH. Thousands of NGOs are just talking about it. If the task of civil society is to point to the mistakes of the authorities, then today we would be the most developed democracy that they have done their job well. I agree that this cannot be regulated by law and that no law will be able to regulate whether terrorist activity is hidden behind some NGO, but there are mechanisms for the public and mechanisms for institutions to stand and to verify it. What I'd like to say is, you can see that this law is not going to get support today, I think, at least from what people have said, when it comes to the Council of Ministers, it's really typical of individual ministries that have different approaches to preparation and harmonisation, or consultation in law making. We have ministers who impose great strength, understanding, include a large number of people of both entities, both governments, parliamentarians, I don't know who everyone is, and we get a law that finds support in Parliament as a rule. We have those ministries, and the same thing I'm about to say last time, they say, on the Ministry's website, it's been delivered, there's been a bill for comments delivered within 21 days. So I said then – don't think that the Justice Ministry page is so interesting that everyone will flock to that site and find and say a few words about the Association Law. So, this law has not passed a path that requires passing so far. So far, we've had no case of one law just being exposed to the Ministry's website and it's considered the only way to bring it together. So, I know that many ministerial assistants through ministers are trying to push through some laws because they ended up doing it as their own business, and ministers don't find enough time to put it in the process. So I think in this way we'll never get this bill, we won't have 35 capacity to adopt it. And I'm saying this in the best sense that we never have a fifth time Association Act. If we're not ready to do it and agree to the end, then there's no point in wasting time five times on the same law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11596	Thank you. We have two replicas. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11597	Here, very briefly, I may have even been in a dilemma about whether to say it more. So this is, for the hundredth time, a House of Representatives that has no obligation whatsoever, nor commits it in its work to obtain the opinion of entity bodies of any kind. I don't mind, it's a common practice to pass a law to make certain preparations, lobbying, consulting, alignment, etc. But I repeat this is a House of Representatives and are irrelevant opinions from any other institution to make and decide us who are elected by the citizens. So, Mrs. Majkić, I know it's already a practice, that the Council of Ministers has practically adopted certain rules, that they have made some procedures, mandatory consultations, etc., but this dom has its autonomy and has its right to decide. So the second thing is that we have such a practice as we have, and all of this would be irrelevant if we finally got in this Parliament a serious parliamentary majority gathered around certain objectives, around a specific programme, and then, of course, it would be easier to adopt laws. But unfortunately, we don't have it, so things look like they are, hoping that someday in this country people will gather around the goals and the interests of this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11598	Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11599	I wouldn't want it to be misunderstood that I have some aggressive need to convince all of you here that this law is necessary to adopt, how it must go and how the world will end if it doesn't pass. You heard how much in the first 100 days of the Council of Ministers' Council of Ministers passed the law in parliamentary procedure, through one of the MPs' questions. This law is too simple a law, so it's too simple a law. And I have to say and remind all of us, I will repeat something that I already said in the debate, we are not discussing today how it is and why someone remembered, and in which procedure, and where he was until he came to us this bill, but what it says in the accompanying acts, and without it probably couldn't be in the process, we know that this is the Council of Ministers' proposal. This is the bill submitted by the Council of Ministers, a little law, and this is the one proposal for the law. I didn't ask, I don't even feel like it's crucial, so I'm guessing they wouldn't have delivered it if it wasn't for the Council of Ministers' business procedure to pass the bill. 36 Today I have not heard it, and I repeat it, not a single remark, I apologize to Mr. Jagodić, perhaps it can be seen as an observation of that age limit for the establishment of the association, if it is a remark. I've tried to comment on it, meaning an objection to the principles of the law. I disagree that, I don't know either, should only allow those who are older over... years to form associations. So, I welcome this fact, that's what Mr. Jagodić and I may be different. I welcome the possibility that people over the age of 16 can form associations. So, indeed, means the replica refers to a finding by my distinguished colleague Majkić as she sees that the law will not be passed. I don't mind, so each of us MPs will be free to make a statement about this bill, but I don't see that it will be adopted. However, I have said my position, I will support this proposal, the principles of this law and invite all those who think similarly of me to support this law, and as fate will be, it depends on our vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11600	Thank you. Replica response, distinguished colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11601	So I wanted to say that these MPs from the RS did not fall from Mars but were elected in the RS area and have an obligation to represent the attitudes and opinions of the RS. So that's our obligation. You can say we're not interested in the attitude of the National Assembly, and we respect that as an attitude, but that's your attitude. If we want the law to pass, you'll have to get a certain number of votes in this section. And if you don't care about that, then we're completely irrelevant. Nobody asked us if this law was right for you. I've never had an NGO, and if the principles are fulfilled here, I don't know. But I'm sure there are people who know that, and they should have been asked. They should have introduced their attitude. There'd be different opinions, but don't ask anything on the subject at all, not to talk to anyone, that means we don't care what you think. If you don't care what we think, it means we can't vote for the law. So, it doesn't matter, it's not that, I didn't want to make any comments, but I wanted to say if in this House we decide to do this kind of work, that some ministries respect the whole procedure, consult with everyone, you know very well who I mean, and that there's no problem either one of the Bošnjak is reacting against, on the contrary, I heard very commendation that they said the last time Mr. Šarović had a report. So, please, there's an obligation for someone to say, we didn't fall from Mars here. And so, I can't talk here about my private opinion, but I have an obligation to speak for the political part that I came from. So please don't, not just me, but all representatives of the RS. And we're not doing anything wrong. We're talking about how we're going to increase the number of passing laws. If that doesn't matter, then I'm asking you in the future on the site, all the ministries on the site, so who sees, who doesn't see.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11602	Thank you. Replication response, distinguished colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11603	I would like to point out very clearly that I listen with full respect and respect each colleague and every fellow representative and listen carefully to the views they make. So what's my position to express it through voting or through, here's a debate or a replica. I'm a bill of this law, probably like everyone else, I saw the moment he arrived at parliamentary procedure and I'm not in any more favourable position, nor is anyone else in a more unfavourable position, because at the same time, I think I know from the experience that the College delivers to all MPs at the same time. So I'm not contesting the right of any of us to consult with whoever they want, it's the right of counsel, and the way someone is experiencing their function, duty, responsibility is the right of counsel. To me, we could all, until today, some of us may have, some may not, consult with whoever we wanted and build our views on the principles of the law. I am based on consultation, based on the experience of the functioning of this sector, the NGO sector in the area of my municipality saw what this bill means. We are in a position that society because of hundreds of other problems is not able, there may not be time, I mean institutions, to deal with certain issues for which, here are young people from time to time who have a need. And then three young boys, two of whom are underage, mean but they're a little closer to 18 than sixteen years old, meet and organise an association of citizens, they call it... Kakanj and organize a meeting of similar young men and girls from all over the region. And there comes 10, 15 of those who are like those at the beginning of a career, some sort of, to introduce themselves to each other and make one fantastic hangout. Three of them, including two minors. It's an experience, which is why I welcome the possibility that they can be organized. We have a lot of NGOs that the state has formed, but here it's clear who, when, how. The definition of these organizations is given precisely and it is completely, in my opinion, liberally set up and nowhere here is said to be able to form an organization that can work under the back of the law... and yes, that is why there are control mechanisms. So, I don't see any reason, so I wouldn't just want to get the wrong idea, I respect, I respect every colleague and colleague, and what kind of attitude should he have in voting.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11604	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Bursać, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11605	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I have to, first of all, say that I absolutely support the views of my colleague Dušanka and return to the words of Mr. Belkić. You're obviously irritated that Dušanka, a member of the Dušanka Parliament, said it should be returned to the entity level. Of course, you should have consulted the entity level as well. Anyone legally funded by the non-governmental sector should be consulted. That's what I'd say, so we should go all the way back to the local community. Let me remind you, in all and one budget, all and one local community, I think it is also a legal obligation, to stand a point in the budget – financing NGOs, you know. Maybe those people should have been consulted, too. I couldn't agree more, so the whole procedure had to go through, that it had to go all the way back to seeing what was a burning problem in making such a law, that it would be easier out there for people on the ground. 38 I agree with my colleague, Lozančić, but then again I ask the question – who financed these three boys to make a good event? She was probably funded by Kakanj Municipality. It doesn't matter. Someone financed it. The three of them, I doubt two minors and one, someone 18 or 19 years old had the money to make one fantastic organization. So someone had to finance it. Today, people cost everything, he couldn't, none of those three guys couldn't have just picked them up. Especially if someone else came to him from the environment over there, if nothing was to buy those plain bottles of water or what I know. So, I absolutely support what Mrs. Dušanka said - return, every law should pass, and this one, and especially this one, should be consulted absolutely by all those people who are legally funding NGOs. I responsibly say that local communities, municipalities, would have a lot of what to say about all their problems, what to add here, eventually take away. So do entities, cantons, and what I know who else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11606	Thank you. Replica, colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11607	Very short. So, it doesn't irritate me, I've been in this for a decade and a half, and I'm used to it, there are worse things, it's not that kind of a problem. So we didn't understand each other. I absolutely did not dispute the right to consult, on the contrary, and the associations of citizens and those concerned by this Law and lower levels of government and those who finance, I absolutely agree. So my reaction was to the following – I considered it necessary to remind again that this is the House of Citizens, that this is a House of Representatives, that it works in a different way than the House of Peoples, that this House does not commit the views of the lower bodies, which does not exclude the right of both yours and mine to ask the president of the local community how I will vote. So that's what this is about. And I absolutely don't mind, or I accept it as a fact that MPs from the RS will vote on how they agree, in terms of the attitudes of their authorities in the RS and so on. The Federation is doing something different, but I just insist that we don't derivate the position of this House. We have a House of Peoples where things are sorting out in a different way, this isn't an entity home, this is a House of Representatives, you've been elected by citizens, me citizens, no matter what 90% of the votes they give me are Bosniak to you, you've received votes from people of Serbian nationality and so on. I understand that and I know that's the way it is, unfortunately. But this is the House of Representatives, not the home of an entity. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11608	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11609	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's what I need, even though I might have avoided any replicas, what my dear colleague Belkić said. And if I took it out of context, I could agree with that, and if I didn't know what was going on here, I might as well accept it. So the theory of sovereignty, sovereignty and what one country has, one parliament. And now he's right, you know how decisions are made, who he consults, who he commits to, and you don't have to think the same way. But the principle applies as a balloon, until at least one place you break it, and then it's no longer a principle. We have warned, if this House of Representatives is chosen from citizens and can irritate someone on this principle why it consults part of its state, though I don't think it should. And I just called to say that the elected representatives of the people in this House voted in favour of the laws that they should not have looked at and should not have opened them. And I would accept this story if we hadn't, or some of us before were not humiliated to the point that they shouldn't have mentioned it. And then this House of Representatives and those who have been elected from citizens to the point of view that it is more pointless to say who comes to the stand, and should not at least those who hold to their republic and to their entity respect that they represent it. They will hold and hold on, and those who held on to this Parliament and some dignity should then tell officials of foreign states – don't humiliate us, we are chosen by the people, we make decisions. No, that's when it's said don't ask, vote, and don't open, and you can't change anything. If we had acted differently then, I would now accept this as some kind of principle. So I say at least we don't open those questions, everyone uses and respects what they think they should respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11610	Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11611	I thank the chairman. Well, here I will replicate the part that is more general discussion of counterpart Kalabić, so I will just remind you when he talks to counterpart Belkić, that the Party for BiH, whose counterpart Belkić was also an MP in previous terms, was the principle just like this and this way as he discusses counterpart Kalabić. The moment we couldn't change anything at all, even a decimal in some proposal, we didn't support such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11612	Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11613	We obviously didn't sit in the same Parliament. Dear colleagues, as far as I know that here in the neighbouring building there is a gentleman who has now calmed down like this, but his predecessors were very brutal, and you were one of the most zealous parties who voted for these... You know what's adopted here, not coming in, me, you or someone. This is where we talked about Parliament and the integrity of this House. And you know well under what humiliating circumstances decisions were made here. And you know well what international landers have entered this room and ordered us to do, what we are ashamed of today. And you know well that we have dozens of laws imposed by criminal international lobbies that are now for the use of BiH, and these officials fled around the world and we realized after a few years that they came all the way here from a criminal mile and with quite some other motives. It's easy for me to be smart right now, of course, if I were that smart I wouldn't do it or some of my predecessors. But that's a fact. It's a fact and that's how it was. And if so, it is very difficult now, I wish Mr Belkić could promote the principle in these areas of the elected national representative, sovereign in what means the sovereign 40 state and independent decision-making. But it's not that, it's not fashion. Now, this one from my country, I won't, but I'm going there, if, some clerk from Brussels said anything, don't talk, you have to listen to it unspeakably, that's good for us. Why is what comes from Banja Luka not good, and why is apriori all that comes from Brussels good? So that's where we showed ourselves a misbehavior and even caused a lot of pity. We didn't respect ourselves enough. I'm on the side of those who are now trying to raise the dignity and the Paralment and all of us, but I'm pessimistic that it's more, after the collapse of all these principles, that it's more possible. And I wouldn't remind myself, I was surprised by my colleague Hadžiahmetović, he knows well what packages and what everything was like and how we've been changing what was coming under very ugly circumstances these past years. And I wouldn't, I don't want to talk about the dignity of this House anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11614	Thank you. Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović is right. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11615	Well, first of all, I can't really silence the qualifications that counterpart Kalabić has given to various, as he said, international, criminal and so forth. representatives who are here in this Parliament and in the process have put in various proposals and things like that. It's really not the topic of the current debate, but I can't help but refer to something like that, and I think it'd be better if, when there's no time to argue it through its discussion, even though it's not the point of the agenda that it doesn't mention it. That's one thing. Secondly, fellow Kalabić, you were not in this Parliament when, among other things, you could see a principled position, which you are talking about, especially when you speak to a colleague, Belkić, who unfortunately has no possibility of replicating for procedural reasons, but here I will only remind you that we are even as representatives of citizens, so as part of the parliamentary body that is the House of Representatives here, and acted according to the signals we had from the electoral base, the electoral basis. We were even aware of the potential consequences for us, and we were prepared to do so. And this party as a party that has acted in principle and today pays the price of such a species and so much has been my remark earlier, but when you talk about this principled attitude, the least you can object to is the Party for BiH and perhaps even the least of the personal, Mr. Beriz Belkić. Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11616	Wait a minute, you have the right to answer the question, but Honorable colleague Mirsad Džugum has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11617	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry, but I have to find out that we are today, o point 7. The proposed law on BiH associations, more heard about relations between parties than about the proposal for absolute law. I think that, if 41 should be interrupted once, at many points where there are absolutely no points about the point or the proposals of a certain point, that one should do one, so to speak, the thematic session that would only be held about what anyone has said in this House over the past 15 years, and to solve at least this process for future work. This is inefficient work, this is what causes extra, so to speak, lifting some tensions that don't have the need to talk about this or similar law. Please a little tolerance, a little simple normal relationship in this part and let's talk about the topics that are on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11618	Thank you. Discussion, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11619	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although I appreciate what my colleague Đugum said, it makes sense. In addition to great international organisations, associations of citizens, NGOs, you have a part of the association of citizens who are doing terrible damage to this country and who are working against all peoples and against all citizens of this country and are legally acting. As far as I know in the '70s, they couldn't work. And we said it wasn't good. And now we've said that I can act and here's how some work. We can't get to the middle of something. It means that I can act but that some of them don't act, so I don't generalize things doesn't apply to... but that I don't, you know, get into the essence of, you know, what are the organizations that hair rises from, under the company of the citizens' association, this is what Mr. Lozančić was talking about. Three of them, push and strike. And if you have the money, you have the favor of some political parties, powerful men, whatever you want, and I could talk to you for hours now about the whites that some associations are so-called to inflict both co-existence and everything that's been going on. So it makes sense that we're skillfully pushed that story to accept it in advance. And we accepted it. He can do anything and he can do it anyway. And now that it's gone, I don't know how to handle it anymore and how to do it the right way. And what he's saying is, there's someone there who's pushed it the way it is, and it all makes sense to talk about it in general and specifically. Again, I do not understand fellow Hadžiahmetović, if we were forced here to declare the imposed OHR laws in the text that it was some escaped high representatives, who later showed their true face, and you here with us, we had to raise our hand to such laws, and no one could guarantee us that we would change them, and many of them to this day cannot change because we do not have a majority, but in order to talk about them at all, we had to not be angry, I believe that this is the humiliation of every MP in this House. And we weren't humiliated once, we were humiliated many times. And that's what you and everyone else were involved in. So, I'm not going to make sense now that it could have been different, but then when we talk about preserving dignity and our positions then we should have said, if we wanted to have a sovereign Parliament, that outside this room there is no face, institution, personality, association, who can order us. No, we said there was. Now they think some others can command. Now they're all over the place. Everyone now thinks they can come with us... and associations, and organizations, and entities, and Brussels, and America and everyone else, because they don't hold us for anything. That's why. And we've given an introduction to that story and let's go back to, to, to, this country a lot of humiliating, and I don't like it, but I can't run away from the part of the responsibility of the people sitting here, that led to it. And then we'd better keep it quiet today and tell it how it's going, than say 42 you know, I'm only sovereign the moment the voice comes from Banja Luka. Well, it can't be, when you weren't sovereign in any other case, don't be in Banja Luka.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11620	Dear colleague Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11621	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I consider it a good intention of the Council of Ministers to regulate the activities of the Association through one law, especially because this Law separates the two activities that we need to separate, the activities of the Foundation and the activities of the Association of Citizens, and the ways in which they operate and the ways in which they are dealing in principle. What is mentioned as an objection is the obligation or non-registration of registration in the register of the association. I personally believe that why we have a register if we don't have the obligation to register and what it means to us that register if we can't find all the ones in it that we need to find who have the right and the ability to act. So that's one suggestion. The application of the age limit mentioned by Mr. Lozančić, in BiH at the age of 16, we have personal documents, and we can drive cars, participate in traffic, and I don't see why someone who is creative enough and capable enough at 16 years old, such as that in our society, would be disabled to join and deal with what he wants to do and what he wants to do, and which may not be in the spectrum of interest of us who are much older and who may not know what the essential needs and desires of young people are. The discussion went one way that was completely unnecessary. I think that there are both legal and our instruments as citizens, as members of civil society, how we can influence the activities and content of the work of associations that act as such in our country, but we need to do so. If I may, I have seen very rarely anyone from the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in frequent meetings with NGOs. And so I think maybe that would be a way for us as citizens and as representatives to participate more, more and more to analyze what happens and how it happens in a civilian scanner and we have instruments that we can represent, we have instruments that we can react to, and we need to use them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11622	So, I've been asking the minister for a long time to report for discussion. I ask the minister – do you want to answer immediately or will you let go, here is how much I see another report, and I also had one replica, so that you may speak? You got it. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11623	Thank you, Chairman. I think it's an extremely sensitive area, and I don't think there's any good solutions presented here. We have heard many times in this House how it is possible for some three citizens to join together, create an association, and then somewhere, here we had at the last and the pre-session of this kind. And if I don't talk about it, he says, "We can influence." So who in all of us makes 43 NGOs, who finances these NGOs? Are we gonna fix this? I think we need this law to sort it out, see which NGOs are funded from where, which NGOs are getting maybe funds from the Council of Ministers, from entity governments. Let's know all that, make it all transparent. Let's know what NGOs are funded from the field, so let's see whose interests they're working for here. Whether they work for the interests of BiH citizens or work for some interests from the field. And it's a democratic standard. Look, in the U.S., you have register laws, they call it foreign agents. Every NGO that's financed from the outside has to log in, it's got to know exactly who's giving her how much money, and that's transparent. Let's do it here. So NGOs that are funded from the field that on the Justice Ministry site we have this and this NGO funded by and these foreign governments are working for the interests of both foreign governments and not citizens' interests. Don't let us hide behind citizens' interests in everything. And in that direction, so for us this law is completely unacceptable, but here's just some of the suggestions, if the ministry sends us a new law, I'd ask them to be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11624	Thank you. Honorable representative Dr. Milorad Živković, chairman of the House, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11625	The issue of human rights being treated with this law is obviously not violated in BiH, as they would certainly have already received a ruling from Strasbourg. The way we need to solve this question is left to us and we've been trying to solve it in a number of ways, obviously unsuccessful. More questions are being asked because of the questions of respect for human rights, we are moving on to the issue of politics. A policy issue in which it bothers the entity level, where there are laws, people can join up there and be at that level, and in the municipality in which they are registered are checked from all sides, and by the police, by the inspection, by the tax administration. Does this mean that those organisations that want to deal with other businesses are more suited to building their associations at BiH level, ask people who have no confidence in the work of BiH institutions that have monitored their work so far. The question for the minister, who spends all the time here, is the question to support the principles of the law without challenging any replicas, to answer us – did this Law respond to the principle of simplicity? Did this Law respond to the principle of efficiency? Is this law adopted by the legal system of this country if two substances are trying to be solved by one law and other matter is left under the same name of the law to work. It's an unknown here in BiH and the way this matter is being solved. Question, so the property wasn't settled by this law. Is the issue of property on an entity, municipal level, the question of where the centre is. The issue of labour-legal status in international associations, as treated by people who are employed in these associations, has not been resolved by this Act. Why someone who founded a BiH-level association and its headquarters in Bihac must come to the BiH Court to solve problems if they are created in the association. What is the principle of efficiency in which problems must be solved from all over BiH. So aren't the courts in the municipalities where these associations are registered that they can't solve? And not to say doubling the name of the association, you're asking the association to register. Does this mean that the same association that exists at the entity level already registered in the register cannot be entered in the 44 BiH registry because it already exists at the level... Why isn't the register listed or sublime all registers that already exist on the entity level? It is an obligation, meaning every association to seek re-entry of the BiH-level registry without any problem. And I ask you, answer our questions, except for those with whom you have made a consultation, in order for MPs, here from the RS, no matter how many people point out that we are MPs in the BiH Parliament, forgive those who are not lawyers and do not know enough matter, we need to find any way to consult on these issues with those who know more than we do, and you don't have to keep reminding us that we don't need to work on it. We will continue to do so, and we will make our views public here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11626	Thank you. No more reports. Minister of Justice, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11627	Mr. Chairman, esteemed MPs and MPs. I just feel a debt to you based on what I've heard, and I've listened very carefully to everything you've said. I'll be very brief, without intent, and answer all your questions. ... Namely, this matter has already been governed by the Law on Associations and Foundations, and I think you all know it. We've come up with, we're still thinking in the ministry, that it would be very good for this matter to be separated. There are many reasons why it is necessary to separate, but primarily in order to simplify the exercise of rights, so on the basis of freedom of association. That's the primary goal. In fact, if this law is not passed, of course we have the Law on Foundations, or associations and foundations, and here's for your information that you know that we have also done the Foundations Act, that it has been delivered to the Council of Ministers, and that such well-conceived solutions by my court, in the ministry we have no obstacles and that they can be applied. Of course, there were different suggestions here and why three, why not anymore. Believe me, we didn't make up any hot water here, just because such solutions are in the environment. And let me tell you, this matter is, here in the countries in the environment arranged in a way that special laws are. Of course I'm going to take a stenogram from this session, that I'm going to see what I can do next, but here in the best interest, we really thought, in the best interest, that, therefore, these issues concerning civil society, concerning the NGO sector, in this way, we would do much better and more effectively, and that all those who have an intention, who are dealing with this business, would be much simpler to them than they are so far. Because here I repeat, there is really a reason for this matter to be divided into two parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11628	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. 45 We move to the eighth point of the agenda, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (first read) On 13 July, the BiH Council of Ministers submitted the draft law to the parliamentary procedure requiring an emergency procedure under Article 127. At the 32nd session, the request was not adopted and Dom decided to consider the bill by a reduced procedure. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on the constitutional basis of the draft law on 04.09. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted its Opinion on the principles of the draft law on 05.09. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11630	Very briefly, I didn't speak for a good part of this when we discussed the procedure. So we still think that even existing solutions guarantee the efficiency and ability to service international debt, it is up to people to carry out their duties knowingly and responsibly. The motives and reasons that led the Council of Ministers to propose these changes have just been a stalemate in service of international obligations at the beginning of this year. I even asked the MP's question today to see how much it cost us because of the behavior of individuals who, of course, did not respond. It's a matter of damage. We'll see when we get the answer. However, these changes were not only in the direction of strengthening security, i.e. raising the security of debt payments and so on. and the elimination of the blockades, rather than they are practically opening up a new space for the Council of Ministers now that practically without the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the procedure of rebalancing and so on. to create part of budgetary spending in the conditions of temporary financing. So it's unacceptable for us. We understand that it is necessary to have some reserves, interventions, etc., but to create a budget beyond the BiH Parliament we cannot support such solutions. And what concerns us is, however, in some solutions, the position of the Central Bank, which is situated as an agent of BiH, is weak. Weak and is brought under the authority in some way and the obligation to consult with entities and so forth. It is true that entities pay off their debts and that they have the right, I absolutely agree with that, but the Central Bank is an agent of the BiH state. Entities have a number of ways and mechanisms, ultimately the Council of Ministers and ministers from both entities and so on. So I think these three reasons are enough for us not to support these changes and supplement even in our first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11631	Thank you. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11632	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 46 Behold, as a member of the Finance Commission and the budget of the overlap at the held session, I was against it. You see in the record there's one vote against. Otherwise against this law on amendments and additions and essentially for all these reasons that Mr. Beriz Belkić spoke of. It is therefore unacceptable that under the obligation to resolve the service of external debt, the Council of Ministers deals with other matter by this amendment and by supplementing the law. And this other matter is the fact that it extends its powers. We already have one situation for a year when we didn't have a budget, when political arrangements were being negotiated, negotiated what that budget would look like, so at the end of the year we adopted it. I think this is how the Council of Ministers is given an additional opportunity to now, so introduces new budget users to find them. They say justifiable reasons. Who's to say what's justified is that the budget we already have for the previous year is now being introduced by some new users and so on. So I repeat what Mr Belkić was saying, but here as a member of the Commission, I say I made these remarks. And normally in Article 14, the introduction of a new attitude 8 that gives power to the central bank to regulate relations with entities, with the Brcko District. In fact, the Council of Ministers is now losing some authority or running away from a job that should be working during that period. We know that the Central Bank is just a fiscal agent, there's no need for it to get further this kind of authority. And we, so SDA MPs, will be against this law and we expect, because of the seriousness of matter, which is the solution to the problem of serviceing external debt, that the Council of Ministers will do something or accept amendments if this law passes in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11633	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11634	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I can see that there are certain contradictions and misunderstandings of the changes that have been made. In the SDP, we supported the principles of this law most because these amendments meet the requirements regarding the stand-by arrangement, the new stand-by arrangement with the International Monetary Fund and the EU's 100m-euro macro-financial assistance associated with the IMF arrangement. We are also not for all the solutions given in the law, especially for Article 14, and we have observations regarding the fact that the Central Bank has the appropriate powers and it is known that the role of the Central Bank is defined by the Central Bank Act and that no one can impose any obligations on it or even powers unless it is defined and is not in conformity with the Central Bank Act. And here's exactly the case. Secondly, it is prescribed that the Central Bank co-ordinates with entities, co-operates with the problem of payments with entities, and it is known that the Central Bank is an agent of BiH and that it has nothing to do with entities. In that sense, we, therefore, supported the principles of the law but we are ready and will certainly act in the amendment phase to build up this text of the law. I think this is a very significant law and should not, for some reasons that are insufficiently defined and which can be removed in the amendment phase to question its adoption. Thank you for your attention. 47
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11635	Thank you. We had a discussion in the College about taking a break. So we don't run this point the next point that comes and we don't end up taking a break until 3:00. [[PAUZA]] My fellow Members and fellow MPs have come to terms with continuing the session. It's the ninth item of the agenda, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a law on free legal aid – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11638	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So this is the law that we've already had here in the parliamentary procedure and that hasn't received support. I think it's time for BiH to finally get this bill. The Constitutional Commission discussed the Law, and the truth was established by the majority of votes by both the constitutional basis and the principles of this Law. An old discussion about the competences of various levels of government in BiH has been repeated. I can only say that in my opinion, and by all serious analyses, this law respects the jurisdiction of every level of government in BiH and this law cannot be marked by a law transposing the jurisdiction of any level of government to another level of government in BiH. This is a law that has the intensities to edit this area in a unique way throughout BiH, to establish unique standards, and then especially does so for the state level by respecting, I repeat, the competences of other levels of government. For these reasons, we had a number of votes against within the commission. But here, again, I call upon all my colleagues and colleagues who voted against having this one more time and that today, I know what the fate of this law is, given the way of voting in this House, to consider this once again to support this Law, because it is in the interest of every municipality, every canton, both entities, the District, and the whole state, and all the people who live in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11639	Thank you. The next is distinguished counterpart Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 48
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11640	I'll have a very, very short one. So, we will give support in the first reading, however, although the explanation is that, and we are given information about the situation in this area from which it is visible that in RS the office is also functioning with outcast some units and so on, Brcko and some cantons, it would be good to try to work on harmonising these capacities, to ensure that there is no duplication of capacity. I'm afraid if it's not a good thing it's all seen that this state organization is not going to, in some way, connect and not harmonize. So, in any case, it is acceptable for me and the only more serious remark is that it excluded the possibility of involving the NGO sector, i.e. the use of the capacity of the NGO to perform this public function. There are organizations, NGOs with experience, capacities, knowledge and perhaps even less money that could do some work in the area than set up some new and so on. Therefore, I would not exclude the possibility of hiring the NGO sector to perform public functions and to pay for it if it turns out to be more rational, more cost-effective and so forth. So this law makes it impossible. And at the end of the proposal, I would ask, what does "ECLJP" mean? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I wouldn't say that EKLJP is used in Europe, but come on, it looks like our invention, EKLJP.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11642	Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11643	So here we have, again we are in a situation similar to the previous law, that we have a proposal that RS MPs will not be able to give consent to. I could say that, let's say, the reason that none of the ministers of the Serb people supported the Council of Ministers' session and that it did not prevent the Law from further coming into parliamentary procedure, but it has greatly determined its fate. So none of the RS ministers supported the bill. However, I still want to say a few words, especially a few words that are related to the begraund of this Law. The proposal for a law on free legal aid came first in the parliamentary procedure in January 2009. The SNSD then proposed that a number of amendments be adopted and that the bill be drawn up as indicative. It was not accepted, the Law passed at the House of Representatives because there were not enough votes against, but it fell on the House of Peoples. After that, SNSD MPs informed the House that it had adopted it, at the end of 2008, passed the Law on Free Legal Assistance and that the adoption of a new law is not acceptable for us. Suddenly, in 2010, the proposal came, the framework bill, and here I don't know which one of us is in front of us today. We feel that the Law on Free Legal Assistance cannot be adopted because its name does not give rise to whom the Law applies. We felt that the Law on Free Legal Assistance could only be called, referring only to the express competences of BiH so that there would be no conflict of jurisdiction, what Mr Belkić had just indicated, quite justifiably. So we have this arranged, that area arranged in the RS, in the Federation as well, and in a 49-number canton and in the Brcko District. We also felt that there was no reason to pass this law because the issue of free legal aid, so it has already been passed in the RS, and that it should be done to make sure that those parts of BiH that do not have it yet, so some cantons that have not yet reached that law, can resolve the issue that there is no need to pass state law. Now, let me not tell the story again about what Article 3 is. The BiH Constitution, a certain jurisdiction of what it is, what the BiH institutions are, is to conclude that amandman 56 is to Article 3. The RS constitution established – da RS belongs to all state functions and competences other than those explicitly transferred to its institutions by the Constitution of BiH. Therefore, the adoption of this Law is under the exclusive jurisdiction of the RS. The provisions of Article 16(1) shall also apply. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia has been established – that everyone has the right to equal protection of his rights in proceedings before the court and other state bodies and organisations, and Article 19(1) guaranteed the right to defend himself in a court proceedings. Let me conclude in the end that, as I said, the Law in the Republic of Slovenia was adopted, it provided for the application of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, one of the relevant principles of the European Convention on the Protection of Access to Justice and, among other things, implies equality in the ability to access the protection of its rights in all actions of all citizens, regardless of their property capabilities. Accordingly, I suggest that we do not support the principles of this Law.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11644	The following came to the discussion from the first deputy chairman, distinguished counterpart, Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11645	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. So there is a law before us that solves one fundamental thing about the exercise of human rights in BiH, which means that it refers to the poorest BiH population that is unable to provide itself with neither counselling nor legal assistance in achieving its civil rights before the courts. On the other hand, there is a matter which BiH is committed to our European integrations, so towards the EU and the Council of Europe and in an explanation, so this Law on page 21 clearly states – the development of a system and structure of sustainable legal consultation and free legal assistance in civil matters in BiH and with an appropriate proposal for a legal solution in this area is one of the demands of the Council of Europe and that BiH has accepted as necessary in the area of reform, judicial reform. Why do I think this matter should be arranged at a state, state level? One reason is that it is necessary to establish equal standards, therefore for every citizen in BiH to be guaranteed civil rights in the same way. Another thing, as I understand the problem of these people to which this Law applies, regardless of what he is arranged and probably well in the RS, in Brcko District and some counties in the Federation, as far as I know at entity level, there are still cases where a citizen is exercising his rights transiently or transcantonally, which means that if the procedure is conducted in a canton with them is not his parent's, I don't see how his civil rights are guaranteed except that it is resolved at the state level, regardless of what the law will be called indicative or in some other way as it is called today. 50 On the other hand, to return to our obligations to international conventions that are part of the BiH Constitution, that is, its preamble. So I will stay here briefly on page 22, Roman III – the compliance of the rules with European legislation, and says – However, in accordance with the case law of the Strasbourg Court, which calls for Article 6. The European Convention on Human Rights, I suppose, means this, is particularly guaranteed by the right to free legal aid, but the bodies of the Convention stress that an effective right to access a court may require the granting of legal assistance to be incorporated into national legislation. Which means the Council of Europe Convention also says that this needs to be resolved at national level. Or further, the following paragraph says – The provisions of the Convention regulate the area of right to a fair trial, equal access to justice which obliges all Member States, but each of them individually regulates this area in a way that corresponds to its... system and state structure. And now we're going back to what I'm guessing is, there may be a measure of this debate here, its essence, so to speak, interferring or collapsing jurisdiction between different levels. I now cannot say reliably whether, therefore, there is such a thing in this Law and if there are such collegiations or those interferences I think it can be removed through the amendment form. But what I'm going to believe here, if I'm going to believe this accompanying explanation of this Department of Justice, stands, says under 6. – The adoption and application of this Act do not require amendments to existing rules since the Brcko District of BiH, RS and a number of cantons have passed their laws on the establishment of a system of free legal aid which is not contrary to the provisions of this Act, the Federation of BiH and the cantons in the Federation of BiH that have not yet passed them. Therefore, I say, and if there is a conflict somewhere safe that they need them, they need attention so that there is no problem in application. And here's the last reason, and it doesn't have to be the last one, it can be the first one, why we, I will personally support this law, is that it was brought by the Council of Ministers, and this parliamentary majority, which I am part of, is behind. So, I think it should be passed, which term eventually he'll wear in his title as it stands or framework law, I think here is the essence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11646	Thank you. No more reported, distinguished colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11647	Thank you, Chairman. I pleaded against this law on the Constitutional Commission because I am deeply convinced that it is anti-constitutional. So, this law is anti-constitutional and the Council of Ministers in a defiled composition very much, I would say, in a rigid way, violates constitutional provisions and causes certain problems to this Parliament. Well, of course it's anti-constitutional because whether a man from Banja Luka will go to Sarajevo for legal aid, is the judiciary in the ultimate line and the judiciary in the jurisdiction of BiH institutions, state institutions. No, it's been passed on, but it's been passed on, it's known under what conditions, I'm not going to say, today there's been talk about it, but we're not going to accept now that legal aid goes to central institutions, that would be absurd. Regardless of the conventions that are read, I believe that it will not be seen in this House to accept such a thing. And that is why it is time for the Council of Ministers to finally, in general, think carefully when proposing something to peddle in accordance with our acts, so the Constitution of BiH. 51 I will not now tell you about the ruling of jurisdiction as the fundamental principle of the Constitution, the division of jurisdiction, the exclusive division, that is, the exclusive division of jurisdiction between the state and the entity, I will mention one, one European document, or principle applicable to the EU Member States, that is the principle so-called. just autonomy, the principle of just autonomy, which says – that competences, all government powers are given to those who are presumed to be the most successful, cheapest and the best performers. This principle can be applied to this Law. To assume that a citizen will get a better service where he is closer, that he knows the space, that he is better able to do so, that in the end it is cheaper and that he will solve his problem more effectively, of course, assuming that all state authorities are functioning. Unfortunately, as far as the public authorities are concerned, that is another matter and could be discussed. This, therefore, I would call it, in myself to call it a better, therefore a unique way of achieving the standard of protection of citizens is not an argument. It can be achieved at different levels, so a unique way can be achieved, so there are standards where it says that at the level of the municipality you cannot better achieve some right than at the level of an entity or state. It's no argument or obligation of the convention. Mr. Ljubić mentioned the adoption of the convention, and he himself mentioned in the end that it must naturally be in line with the constitutional-political system. The EU will never seek anything that is not in line with the internal structure of the state, or with the legal norms that exist in that country and which, of course, must be applied. And that's why it would be good, I don't like to say this, to stop by once, because these things have become quite clear, almost everyone knows it, and that in this way they are given to Parliament some, some food to maintain tensions or conflict situations unnecessary. When the Council of Ministers gives these things then it has a profession on it, it has everything, it has to think carefully whether it can give this to, it can give everything to Parliament, of course, absolutely, but it is not politically wise or useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11648	Thank you. Speaker of the House, distinguished representative, Dr. Milorad Živković, discussed. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11649	I used to read the paper from the back, and now I've started reading the material from behind. And this law when I took it and so tried to read it I immediately found at least a few reasons why it would be questionable for the principles of this Law to be supported here. It is unacceptable to further centralise in BiH, here are such things as free legal aid. Only on the back side will you find that the new five offices are being opened, that new people are being hired and that everything here in Canton of Sarajevo is being held. The principle of increasing BiH's budget here is written only about 334, I believe it's much more in next year, is unacceptable to me. The buildup of new employee forces, the increase in budgets and centralised are principles I will not accept. If there is a problem, the problem can be dealt with in agreements with entity institutions that could generate free legal assistance for processes here in Sarajevo or the BiH Court of Justice. Try to open a dialogue with them, try to see if they will accept this job, don't go further into the burden of the BiH budget, don't go to the additional centralisation of the system here, because we from the RS, unfortunately I have to say so, and I would like to say these or we from the Federation won't accept it. Thank you. 52 Dear counterpart Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11650	Here, listening to the last three discussions I'm really no longer sure if we're talking about the same law, because in no place have I seen this law abolishing the existing system, the established system of free legal aid. So this system, this Law tries to unite the system, i.e. to unify the quality and way of providing legal assistance. If this law doesn't need the people of the RS, believe me, I don't need it, absolutely not, but for the record then. This is an obligation, an international obligation of the BiH state to have a system, so let it be decentralised until the end, but it must have a system, it is set before the state of BiH, we cannot respond to the Council of Ministers or the EU – there is no problem, there is a Canton ZE-DO and it is fine. So no one's looking for centralization and I don't see the ambitions of this law to centralize the matter, just trying to connect what already exists, not getting into autonomy and work trying some kind of standardisation. But here, if the people of the RS think they shouldn't, you shouldn't trust me, not one... not one office, not one office, not one office, no office, no no no need, no problem.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11651	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11652	Mr. Belkić and You would be quite right if it were in this Law – the Law on Free Legal Assistance of BiH Institutions. So it doesn't stand here and as soon as it doesn't stand, we have a dilemma, because we already have laws adopted that and... We tried everything didn't, the amendments didn't pass, we came into the phase we were in, we had to pass the law. Many cantons passed the law, Brcko adopted, and now after so many years, meaning since January 2009, we have been playing with that law. So that, no one would say anything that this law was related to, that we didn't talk about, that it would be, that it would be, that it would be unique in BiH, that he couldn't be the only one in BiH, because what we're going to do with the laws we've already passed. So we're not talking about such a law. So RS is against standing there without the definition of who it refers to. Legal aid law, who, what?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11653	Thank you. Speaker of the House, Honorable Representative Milorad Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11654	So it's a replica of my esteemed colleague, Beriz Belkić. Namely, I am such an attitude and I believe a large, large number of MPs from the RS, that the principle when we do not have something in BiH at all levels is missing because one canton does not want to do it or the principle when some do not want to agree with others to harmonize and that these principles are the same in BiH and that the law is required at BiH level is unacceptable for me, because I want to force others to do their job. A principle that increases the budget, according to this assessment alone, by 334, in a situation where entities cannot withstand additional financing of BiH's budget for me is unacceptable, at least we from the RS have 53 information that RS cannot support additional financing of BiH's level. I don't know what the situation with the Federation is, I believe it's similar. The principle in which the new five offices are opened, and it opens in Canton of Sarajevo, is unacceptable for us from the RS. I've given you three principles that are unacceptable. You tell me three that would be acceptable to me so I can vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11655	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11656	You see, when something isn't going to happen then it's free, I mean any argument, Mr. Chairman, co-workers and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, it's worth it. But, I mean, for the sake of a stenogram, so the thing is quite clear to me, it was still clear to me on the commission, but it won't always be like this in BiH, it'll change. Someone might think they won't, I'm absolutely sure they will, because if we want to move forward then we'll have to change some things, we'll have to adopt some standards. So there's no dilemma for me. But I say for a stenogram, just to read Article 1. The law and to back up what I was saying in this opening part. Therefore, this Law lays down basic rights for the exercise of free legal aid, forms of free legal assistance, entities for the provision and users of free legal assistance, conditions and means for the achievement, financing and control of the provision of free legal assistance, as well as supervision of the implementation of this Act, and establishes the Office for Free Legal Assistance before BiH authorities and institutions. In Article 6, the competent authority, in this provision, which speaks of the meaning of the term in Article 4, the competent authority for the provision of free legal assistance, the authority before, established by this Act, the Law of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law of the Federation, the cantons, the Brcko District and so on, that I do not read any further. So BiH is a country that has an obligation to guarantee equal standards for all citizens in this area. This is done by this Law and is not affected, fulfilling its obligation to the Convention, without affecting any of the powers of any level of government in BiH. But people are not 14 states, 10 cantons, 2 entities, right, 12, state level 13, Brcko District 14, that's 14 organisational units within the BiH state where it has to be guaranteed equal rights for all. And this law should serve as a basis for BiH to settle, so this thing, and let it settle, each and every one manages, is no problem. And that's the essence of this law. However, there is no will here, so there is no will here, and I want to repeat, so once again to say, no matter what it is now, I am convinced that it will one day come, because here in BiH, we will flock in our own mud, things will be in stale, they will go back, they will get economic problems, or I don't know what else until we realize that, or we all don't realize that in BiH, we finally have to take steps to sort things out and this area. This isn't people against any entity, any municipality, any canton or any man in this Bosnia, for the benefit of all of us is this. That's it, thank you. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11657	Thank you. No more, dear colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11658	I can't keep this quiet. It is, one day things happen, we can't predict how they can change, something's changed, something's come, we didn't even believe in it. But I would tell Mr. Šefik, a colleague, when he realizes in this country that this is a federal state, that this is not a unitary state, that he cannot prescribe laws from Croatia and Serbia that are unitary states, a completely different matter will be. And that's understanding reality. If we understand reality and on these real grounds we build a legal system, and then that legal system will be sustainable. The capacity of the state is not assessed according to the scope of functions, but according to its efficiency, transparency, the adoption of laws and the possibility of enforcement of these laws rather than scope. So you see in the world, France as an example of a unitary state is being decentralised, and all the countries in the world at all. It is constantly being pushed into central institutions here, and all competences must be accepted by central institutions. Now, when we evolve in that direction, Mr. Šefik, she'll be very successful in passing these laws and everyone's gonna make sure that the laws are enforced.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11659	Dear colleague Adnan Bašić has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11660	Oh, for a little while, it's an easy one. I'm a little bit, I listen very carefully, of course, maybe more carefully than many because I hear they're talking, I have to respect my colleagues and colleagues, and believe me, I'm doing it for sure. Mr. Kunić, I was a little interested, especially in these heated discussions as they approach us, since when and what law has BiH been defined as a federal state? Please explain to me a little bit, I'm a layman in it, but I don't think it stands anywhere in the BiH Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11661	Thank you. It's an easy question, but it's not really an answer. In any case, another replica of the esteemed colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11662	Well, you know what, that's what the birds on the branch know. If you look at the contents of the constitution, the Constitution is such that BiH, I repeat, is a classical federal state. That the classical federal state has one element, which is here to have two homes, to have two units, to have a coalition government, to be composed of two parts, that Parliament is made up of two homes and so on. So you have a series of elements that characterize the state as a federal state. There's more... you have a constitution. So, the federal state must have... the constitution,...and td. So there are a number of other elements that point out, so I know it's being denied here, I was involved in discussions in '98. the years in Sarajevo around the Constitution. But read, read the views of foreign experts, and you will see, the attitudes of German theorists, Austrian theorists, 55 Italian theorists, all say BiH is a federal state. Then why is it denied here? Why is that denied, when from the contents of the constitution, it doesn't have to be written in the Constitution that it's a federal state. Is it written in Switzerland that it's a federal state? Is it written for Austria that it's a federal state? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, Švajcarska's a federal state, not a confederate state. It's called a confederal state because of tradition. __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11665	We now have a line of replicas, although we have free aid on the agenda. The first vice-president, distinguished colleague Božo Ljubić, had a replica about this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11666	Look, as I recall, in Dayton it was intentional, mainly from the Federation to insert a term of BiH states, but there was strong opposition on the other hand, so only BiH was left without any prefix... and now counterpart Kunić said the BiH state. On the other hand, I'm not a politician, I'm not a lawyer either, but I'm very careful with one word, so to speak, clarity and how much I understand states and systems, BiH is actually not a Federation, not a confederate, it's a quasiconfederation that hasn't functioned and I'm afraid without root change and it won't. And here, I feel free to say what I said in '95. year, when Krešo Zubak returned from Dayton to Holiday in, we Hrvat all lived there in- because there was only electricity and water there, and when he told us what was agreed in Dayton, I then said – Krešo, if such a state ever works, I will burn all my diplomas, from primary school to doctorate science, because that means that in life I have learned nothing. All my diplomas are up to the day of today, and here we are, and here we are today proving my thesis from '95. A year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11667	And photocopied and certified. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11668	Oh, I just mean, we opened one question, I talked to my colleague Kunić a few times about it, so I discussed it. I invite you all to take the BiH Constitution and read Article 1st, so the complete article 1st, then everything it writes, the first few views, there you will find what BiH is, and then interpret how you want to interpret it. And if you want to talk about the Federation then, I was telling Professor Kunić, the Federation is forming, the way the Federation is joining something. I don't know that something like that happened in BiH, that I'm not opening a completely different story right now, that I'm not going in the other direction. This is, therefore, quite enough, quite enough right now for this moment. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11669	Thank you. Replica response, dear colleague Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11670	Oh, I'm not really going to spread. We've got another agenda. I thank Mr. Kunić, these are all the elements that you listed, but that's not real. I'd call it a fictional man. So I have a fiction of what I wish it were BiH, and you want it to be a Federation, and I wish it were the Republic of BiH. But it's all fiction and mine and yours. BiH is the successor state of the Republic of BiH. It is a final and definitive fact of what BiH is. It is true that we have in that BiH Federation but it is not the BiH Federation. Maybe you'd like it because it's a little easier to bypass what you really want, but I don't want to take it any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11671	Imported colleague Azra, business intervention takes precedence. She's a colleague of Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11672	... on the free legal aid, not the state's office of BiH, and please... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11673	I can't know what the MP wants to say when he answers. And I've warned before that it's a part of the agenda, but then don't accuse me of letting one of them talk about it and forbid it to others. I'm asking you one more time, I'm warning you. Some have fulfilled theirs, meaning opportunities such as respected counterpart Petar Kunić and no longer has the right to appear on this agenda point, but some have not, so here is counterpart Azra Hadžiahmetović, who has the will and desire to talk about it. Here you go. 57
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11674	Thank you. I didn't have the will or the special desire to tell you honestly, but the discussion of the state order moved me to suggest really if I could possibly do both reading at once on free legal aid. Because there seems to be a need for legal assistance here in this room, especially when it comes to BiH's state planning. I chair you, please, I don't think this debate has been dissonant at all. She was even more in favour of the need to adopt the Law on Free Legal Assistance. Therefore, I ask that we adopt immediately in the first reading, that we act in the second, to add that parliamentarians, i.e. the House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, can enjoy free legal assistance, when it comes to state planning. Thank you. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11675	Just a little bit, please. I have, so the need to tell an esteemed colleague, if adopted in the first reading, then we'll put your proposal to put the second reading immediately without amendments to the vote, and we'll see about that. Here's a business intervention, distinguished colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11676	I'd like to answer Mr. Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11677	Is that business? How come...? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11678	Okay, you're not a lawyer, you're not, I'm not going in deep. That BiH is a state telling the fact that it has been transferred to state jurisdiction. It wasn't the state at first, but in the meantime, the judiciary, the defense was transferred, so these are the elements. She had the opportunity to conclude international contracts. With these three things, she became a state. These are the primary elements for a community to be a state, and from now on. Are you satisfied?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11679	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11680	I did part, but I'd... 58
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11681	Can we move on, Professor, move on? Here, there's another Dušanka, a dear colleague of Majkić. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11682	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11683	No Slavko, please. Well, we've done these stories, don't you think? [[Common discussion]] Just a little bit, please. Here you go, Dušanka.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11685	So, my colleague Džaferović. I really must say, regardless of what Professor Kunić said and the transferred powers we have given, many are still thinking about what BiH is. But I ask a basic question that a man can ask himself – why is the name of the Federation of BiH given to another part of the organisation, if it has not had any other reprecision? These are questions we never got answers to, and it would be interesting. Two, one more thing to finish. If the country has its own territory, if it has its own population, if it has legislative and executive authority and it's being carried out all over the place, what else is missing? She lacks international legitimacy. In the way that the Federation political parties have been acting lately, I don't think they'll be able to do it long enough to slow down this international legitimacy, because it can't get out of the hole. So, not a single Federation political party said, instead of calling, instead of calling on the international community to, as counterpart Bećirović says, engage more intensively in solving this problem, and we are getting paid for it, it would be better if he invited his colleagues to say, let's sit down and talk about these things. This country doesn't have the capacity to talk about it. And as long as it doesn't have the capacity, we don't have a chance to get out of this darkness. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11686	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11687	Slavko, I would ask you to... Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11688	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11689	There's no need. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11690	No microphone 59 is enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11691	It doesn't matter how long you talk, it matters how you react. Because if you cause a reaction that I can't finish after... Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11692	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11693	To you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11694	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11695	Go ahead. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11696	Well, I'd feel uncomfortable if you'd just take my word and take it very culturally. Dear colleagues, I don't have the capacity to give any legal or any free help, but here's a solution. To shorten procedures, not to waste this much time, as soon as you hear, you gentlemen, our dear friends from the Federation, representatives of the main parties from the RS, that this will not go away, don't waste any time to convince us when you won't. But don't tell me we gave up, the RS guys are right, and we're giving up. But this is what you say - we want from the Federation those from the RS will not, the law has fallen, give new proposals of the law that will connect us and not separate us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11697	If I didn't know what you were gonna say, I'd ask you to say this. We're closing the debate. We're going to the 10th item of the agenda, Ad. Ten. Annual traffic reports for 2008, 2009 and 2010 by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH The foreign trade and economic relations ministry delivered a report adopted by the Council of Ministers at the 4th session. The Commission submitted an opinion on each of these reports with a conclusion on 05.09. I'm opening a debate on the reports. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go. 60
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11699	Oh, here, I'll try very briefly. Maybe we should have talked this way when we talked about the agenda, but we were obsessed with other things. So I have information maybe a little bit more than the others because I'm a member and this committee of ours and we've dealt with these on more than one occasion and we've really gotten into the essence of the problem. However, we now have, in some ways, in my opinion, procedures of problems. So, the agenda point is the Annual Report on the Transport of Strategic Goods in 2088, 2009, so it's formulated. The 2008 and 2009 report discussed the commission, gave its opinion, they were here and adopted. We've adopted these two reports here and we've established our conclusions. The 2010 report, we didn't have, as far as I know on the commission, because it seems to have gone somewhere on another committee and Parliament hasn't adopted it. The point is, what I'm saying is that we should now practically discuss the finding, or whether the conclusions adopted in the adoption of the 2008 and 2009 reports are real. These conclusions are also very clear and speak of the obligation of the ministry and so on, to submit a more detailed report for 2008 and 2009. A year. It's something like, here we have more detail, but this Ministry of Trade was obliged to deliver a report on issued permits and for 2010, to initiate a procedure for amending the law. We have here to get the inspectorate to do some things. And in the end, that conclusion of the 5th to be shared.) suggests that detailed information on possible illegality in this area be requested from the Presidency, SIPA and so on. Obviously, we don't have any information today why we didn't get these reports, as far as I know we didn't get them from either the presidency, or from the SIPA, or from these other organizations, we don't have any information on whether this inspectorate delivered it, I didn't see it, but I heard that he delivered some information, we don't have any changes, and we don't have any additions to the law. In my opinion, we should not discuss documents, reports 2008, 2009. A year, because we adopted them here, we could only conclude that these conclusions of our House of Representatives are not fully realised and possibly seek their realization. So when we have it all, then try to have some discussion and see how we get out, and obviously, obviously, that's what we should do. And, of course, there's still the 2010 report to be discussed here, but I don't know why it wasn't on this Joint Commission but that it went to another commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11700	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11701	Dear colleagues, obviously we started working when we wanted a particular report to come to us the way it would be for someone, then we sent it to an unauthorized committee, and then this unauthorized commission struggles with it without knowing what to do. And this is the first time, in fact for the second time, it was the first time with the Demining Act, and this is the second time to take the exclusive responsibility of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security and assign it to a commission that has never met with it. I would remind you that the Joint Defence and Security Commission in November 2011 proposed to the House of Representatives 5 conclusions that were all accepted in full. ... 61 So far, the Ministry of Economic Relations has submitted reports that were coded. [[You don't understand.]] So, if you want to see what BiH is exporting from weapons then you get the LV mark, I caricate, LV 6, so you dream about what BiH has exported? In order to clarify the Commission for Defence and Security with this, since it is evident that there are a large number of acts dealing with SIPA, and the prosecution, and I think they are already saying somewhere that there are 15 such cases, the Joint Commission for Defence and Security has requested that these codes be translated and delivered to us to give our views on this. The College of the House of Representatives shall be aware of the fact that it has delivered this to the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. And when I saw what this was about, I sent a memo to the College and said it's always been, ever since this House existed, that it's always been a task of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security and never in the jurisdiction of the Foreign Trade and Customs Commission. I'm very sorry that the chairman of this committee isn't here today. And normally, since the commission didn't know what to do with it, it has material that, having fire in its hands and not knowing what to do with it, then they made one such decision, one that unanimously supported but at the same time, because it was about goods that had strategic importance for defence and security, they didn't consider the aspects because it comes out of its competence. So what was the commission discussing if it wasn't her competence? What did she not return to the College and say – the respected members of the College return this to the competent commission. Apparently, the report that was to be made by the Joint Defence and Security Committee was dangerous. So, the findings of those commissions were dangerous to be found out in public. And that's why it was given to a commission that couldn't deal with him. And where are we today? Today we are so far as not to know what happened and what is the situation, because what we have defined as the 5 conclusions that the Ministry of Economic Relations was supposed to deliver to us, something we have not received. Everybody's actually running away so they don't say what they are. I ask that the House of Representatives not be an institution that will protect the illegalities and thievings that have been conducted in the past years. If that's the case, don't tell me about the future of this country where the apparent crime it's committed is hidden by giving jurisdiction to a commission that can't deal with it. So, I urge you to return the material, which represents the agenda point, to the committee responsible for discussing, to make a report, to inform the House and the public about what was going on.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11702	Thank you. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11703	The Honorable Chairman. Well, I'm sorry he's not here as chairman, but here are the board members here who were present. If you're going to honestly take my opinion, I begged Bog not to let this come to us. Let me not do things for anyone, and I have to do things. Well, I can't blame you from college you've done the right thing. Who delivered these materials? The Ministry of Economic Relations. Well, it's not the Commission for Defence and Security who has jurisdiction over this ministry, but our Foreign Trade and Customs Commission, it's logical. 62 Next, this is not a controversy on the discussion of distinguished colleague Majkić, but it's not just strategic ammunition, weapons, rifles, it's all there. There's something jurisdictional about this committee. Is the strategic war component grain? Is it wheat? It's not. And it's a strategic commodity. We have to deal with it. So, what I'm saying is, very briefly I always say, here's if we're wrong, and we haven't, we've lost hours of debate over this. It came from the department, and I'm going to claim that the College did the right thing by assigning it to us, the competent commission. By intertwining the various things of our Joint Commission for Defence and Security, the Commission of Others, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, I don't know, everyone's involved, so who's going to distinguish that? It would be just the same for the sake of depression, and I end up, when I was chaired by this very commission, a respected colleague, Belkić, whom I highly appreciate as all of you, the flood in Popov Polje tells me – Mr. Jovičić, this is your jurisdiction. What do I have to do, outside trade, but he says -- ha, I haven't forgotten, you didn't give the Ministry of Agriculture and Water, come down a little bit. I'm leaving too, of course. So, I end up, we gave an opinion, we didn't adopt, but I'm asking a key question -- so what if we had adopted people, strategic goods in 2008-2009. What are we going to change about that? But the reports need to be read, so we see that the falling parameters around the exporting of these strategic goods are terrible. In 2008 and 2009, we kind of stuck to it, so there was coverage of imports and exports, and somehow we arrived. In 2010, a terrible fall. And I'm finishing this. Let's plan for these 2008 and 2009 reports. When I heard the information on this, here's to the competent commission, that in the first six months, the export of electricity and profits of 167 million marks for BiH, and we exporters big. Now I'm asking you in advance, and I'm going to remind you, where are we going to buy in January and February if the batteries are empty? So someone's gonna tell me now I'm off the subject. This is the topic, this is the topic. Strategic goods are grain. Where we will introduce, a drought huge in Serbia, a drought huge in Croatia. What are we going to do, how are we going to feed the people? Now these are strategic, not in 2008, who survived in 2008, 2009 and 2010, here he is in 2012. Whoever died in 2008, rest his soul, alarahmethyl, whatever you want, what he cares about these things, man, you can't fight. Let's see those who are alive to fight for them. And this is the kind of report that comes in four years behind today that I'm supposed to be wasting my energy to say if I'm in charge, I'm not. I'm not in charge of anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11704	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11705	I have to say that the people who are in that commission don't know that it's a strategic commodity, that's the kind of goods that's being talked about in this case that's being used both as a slave for military use and as a slave for civilian use. Explosive is also a means used in weapons, at the same time used as industrial. It's very important that we know where every gram of explosives is. It's very important to us where the weapons ended in 2007, 2008, in 2009. I remind you that we will have the next point that speaks about the completion of the Commission's work for the period 2006-2010. That's where I put the five registrators that speak, the seven registrators who talk about the findings and findings we've come up with. If everything needs to be covered by snow, rosemary and chess that happened in that period, then I want to say that I can't accept it, and it's right for every one of the MPs to raise their hands for it and say that I'm covering it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11706	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11707	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome everyone present. Here, I will also speak as a member of the Committee on Foreign Trade and Customs. And it is true that the Commission has been told that one part should be carried out by the Joint Defence and Security Commission. And we also felt that the College had directed us to give an opinion on the foreign and trade aspects. And as for the defence-security aspect that it is the work of the Joint Commission for Defence and Security, and that is where our commission did not get involved, but that is exactly what we said – that part, means defence and security is being considered by the Joint Defence and Security Commission. What Mr Belkić says is true that on 10.12.2011, the House of Representatives, our House, adopted the 2008 and 2009 Report and the Joint Defence and Security Commission asked for the completion of the Contribution Report, since the contributions were not discussed. And then the contributions were delivered, but unfortunately they ended up on the Internet, so he could and who wanted and who should and shouldn't have come up with some data that I don't think he should, let's say, layman or some ordinary citizen even see. In principle, we now need to make a statement, meaning the updated reports for 2008 and 2009 and for the complete 2010 report. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs supported the foreign-political, foreign-trade aspects related to this period, and I say it was still an opinion, meaning for this second aspect to be carried out by the Joint Defence and Security Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11708	Thank you. I need to discuss it. Do you have a replica, do you?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11709	No, no.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11710	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the College shall have the right to send the reports to only one committee for consideration. We discussed the possibility, we asked, and I personally, to send it to two committees, which in the College was interpreted as being past the Rules of Procedure. You have the opportunity to choose between one and the other commissions, between the commissions that the RES prepares and extends the scope of what is spoken about because it is an external trade and a narrow part, in particular that it is a means of defence and protection. The question is, who are you going to send it to and whether you've done it right so far because you've only sent it to one committee. 64 I cannot allow anyone here to give himself the right that his commission is the strongest in Parliament, that there is only one commission to work here, to conduct investigative procedures, and that commission alone can respond to the fight against crime and corruption in BiH. I cannot allow colleagues here to be the same and equal and that any MP in the commission cannot do the same work that was given to him. I can't allow any more expert commission to discuss anything than any other commission. I cannot allow it not to be accepted or allowed any MP from any commission to be at the session of the commission and to put his objections or to give his suggestions so that the matter can be considered. I simply cannot allow it and whoever puts himself above all MPs here in this House is obviously not his place in this House. I cannot allow a report to be deliberately sent to a commission to cover something up, because as you can see, we already have here on the agenda a report on the work of the Investigation Commission on the legality of the destruction of ammunition, mine-explosive funds, etc., and so on, and I will be the first to raise my hand if it is to be investigated outside, means traffic of strategic goods for 2008, 2009 and 2010. For a year, whoever suggests it here will be the first to raise my hand. But don't put yourself above this Parliament, don't put yourself above your colleagues where we're all the same, don't say that your commission is the only one who can give us answers here in BiH. Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11711	I didn't say any of that to my colleague Živković. I didn't say any of that. So, I said that what was the conclusion of our commission the College did not respect. So, on our request came this material. We started it. I never said in one word that the Defence Commission is the most important, that it is outside the others. I deeply respect the work of every commission and never interfere with the work of what is the Commission's jurisdiction. But I'm really embarrassed that after four years of working on this Joint Commission has been released. I can't believe it's in good faith. Here, let this be the future task of this Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs. But I will certainly be one of the fierce critics because the arguments are on my side, the information is on my side and there is no man who in this House, in the past or in this assembly, has spent more time on that job than I have. It is, if anything, a colleague of Živković, at least it is respected and not declared to be an unwanted person in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11712	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11713	I also didn't realize that any of us members of this Joint Commission were trying to put this committee above anyone. But the facts are this, I'm aware of how these things are going to happen today, I've brought the minutes from the 13th session of the House of Representatives. Reports in 2008 and 2009 were adopted at the 13th session of the House of Representatives. So the reports were adopted. In the formulation of the agenda for today's session, we have indicated that we are considering these two reports. It is true, Mrs Ćemalović, that the first conclusion speaks in more detail, but the reports were adopted, it is a fact. 65 We today, in my opinion, no matter what commission, did not mention the commission at all, we today need to discuss these four, or these five conclusions that I have tried to interpret quickly here. Are they real or not? There are no amendments and no additions to the law. The inspectorate delivered a report. The MPs don't have one. We don't have reports from either the Presidency or the State Protection Agency, we don't have an OSCE mission, we don't have a SIPA. It's all in these conclusions. So, I was just at the beginning of the discussion saying that maybe when we discussed the agenda, we should take this off. And I suggest the following, that we practically try to analyze and see what these conclusions are realized, which isn't and try to intervene to make it happen. As for the 2010 report, I do not dispute the law of the absolutely College, and it is true, Mr Živković, that two commissions cannot, unfortunately, be determined by parts but must be defined by one. It means that the College says which committee is in charge. No problem if it's this commission let's give a report and an opinion on 2010 and we'll discuss it. But the point is, what about these five conclusions of ours? He ate a donkey wolf and nothing. And Dušanka's right, it's about big things. And the final result is what Slavko is saying, that the job has fallen and fallen completely, which is practically also very important.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11714	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to 11. Dot, Ad. 11. Agriculture report for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, BiH Council material In 07/08, the Council of Ministers delivered the report to the parliamentary procedure. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs delivered its opinion on 05 September, proposing the adoption of four conclusions to the House. I hope you have those conclusions with you, that I don't have to read them specifically. If it's necessary, I'll read them. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear colleague Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11716	I thank the Honorable Chairman, My colleagues and colleagues. We can often hear that agriculture is a strategic branch and that BiH has a great chance in this area too. It can be so special now at the time of the chronic food shortage in the world. Well, he can, but he's not. The reasons for this are more numerous, and a good part of these reasons can be read from the 2011 Agriculture Report for BiH, which is very detailed, extensive and represents a good basis for discussing this topic and on this, people who have made it, should indeed be congratulated. Particular attention should be paid to data on the structure of the deficits in the trade in agricultural products from which it can be read, from which critical points can therefore be read in this area. One 66 of the important issues is certainly also the policy of incentives for whose reform, in whose reform there is a possible rescue for Bosnia and Herzegovina's agriculture. If we look at the data contained in the Report, we will see that the agricultural budgets in BiH in 2011 amount to over 142 million KM. It should be borne in mind that earlier years it was about 160 million KM. It is significant that 75% of these funds, when we talk about 2011, are spent on premiums, regresses, payment per throat, i.e. per hectare, etc. This, of course, raises questions about the justification of such a way and such policies of incentives, spending of funds, abuse and so on. The real question is how to increase these resources and more importantly how to direct them in the right direction. In my opinion, these funds should be spent on creating conditions that, conditionally speaking, the state guarantees the purchase of products and guarantees minimum purchase prices for agricultural products. The second area to which these funds should be directed is to encourage and subsidise capital investments in agriculture. And the third segment is the professional training of agricultural producers, their organisation and association and of course promotions. So it is more than clear that the agricultural sector needs swift and rooted reforms, that BiH institutions, including us, have not done their part of the job and that regional integration movements do not contribute to our agriculture or, in any event, to the Bosnian-Herzegovina economy as a whole. In this context, I believe that this report should be supported, that it should pay attention to the proposals for policy measures in agriculture, nutrition and rural development contained in this report, that the Commission's conclusions should be adopted and their implementation taken into account. And in the end, this may be the last good farm report. Not good in terms of the methodology by which it was done, but what was contained in the report, so when it comes to data, information, etc. I am simply afraid of what we will read in the 2012 report, especially in 2013 and 2014, and because of the direction in which the region is moving and because of our relationship with this important branch of economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11717	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11718	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear fellow MPs. I'm going to try to cut short a part of the debate and not repeat myself with a colleague who's already a good part of it and said what I was going to say. I'd just like to add that the situation in agriculture is factual and a picture of the state of the country. I won't say anything special if I say that currently the most competitive goods on the world market are food. 50% of the population is half-hungry or 25% malnourished, so the other half is hungry, so in this context I think it has a special meaning and that from that aspect can be given the importance of agriculture and agricultural production, food production, and in particular from the aspect of rural development. We don't even cover 50% of our needs today, our food needs. We haven't even been able to protect our domestic production. We haven't been able to go to the world market, because we're not competitive on the domestic market either, let alone on the international market and deal with 67 food producers, and we know that here's only one French, don't take my word for it, I think 50% of my budget stimulates for agricultural production. The comparisons for, here we have seen in this material that is contained, and I would say quite good, there are a lot of materials that can be debated, somewhere around 150 or 142 million marks of separation for agriculture, and that is just a little bit more than 1% of BiH's fiscal capacity. In such circumstances, I don't think we have a chance at all. And what my colleague said, I'm just afraid to think about what's going on with our agriculture, what's going to happen, what's our chance, and what's going to tell those people who once unfounded get off the road and try to figure out how to survive and train their families. I would say that we have one of the key tasks, which is what doesn't cost us much, to institutionally build what we have to do at all levels. So it's not just a state-level obligation, it's an entity, and at least we build that institutional part to allow them in that part to have no administrative barriers or to protect or possibly go out with production on the world market. As far as this part of stimulation is concerned, I would just like to say this, that whoever's a little bit on the budget can see that about 40% of the resources in our budgets are being waste on the social sector, I'm making my own assessment that half of them are either not at all or are either part or 100% workable. Here's instead of developing the social sector in such a way, I think it's much better to develop the agricultural sector through incentives. And when it comes to rural development, I think the best way to get into our cities is when we see that every half-year there's a big new apartment block where people actually come from villages, live in the city, because obviously there's someone doing something for them, they don't have to. And I think another time in the sun, where we need to sober up as soon as possible and try to give agriculture what belongs to it, and it is strategic. So you wouldn't have developed countries either, so agriculture produces loss and they give it 50% incentives and gives it meaning in such a way message and importance of what agriculture and food production means for each country. And in that context, I think we should learn from them and do what is necessary. The good part of the measures stands only to be operationally and elaborated and implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11719	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11720	Here, I'll try very briefly. So, for me, the opinion of our competent commission is acceptable and these conclusions that the Commission has proposed. But I want to say something about another aspect of these initiatives and so on. So, after 8, 9 months of Mr Ivanković's parliamentary question, which is an interpreter to this whole story and 7,8 months of initiative, we have today's debate, so after 8,9 months. The basis for the debate is the report on the situation in agriculture in 2011. Mr Ivanković's motive, at least in the context of the initiative, is a question to the Council of Ministers which he has not received an answer, whether BiH will meet, create conditions for exporting products of animal and plant origin to the EU by 01.01.2013 when Croatia will take over EU legislation. And the question was whether BiH would establish a payment system at BiH level in accordance with the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance Rules for Rural Development. None of these 68 two questions, which was the motive of that MP, we didn't get an answer. So we got a report on the situation in agriculture and we got a proposal for conclusions. So, I just want to point out that there's something wrong with our initiatives. He's still been great. The BiH Party's MPs launched an initiative a year ago to discuss economic opportunities, i.e. difficulties, the economic situation in BiH, and to this day we have no debate. But here is the conclusion, so MP Ivanković did not receive answers through either the parliamentary question or through his initiative which resulted in a debate on the report on the state of agriculture. I, I say, will support the Commission's opinion and I will support what people suggest, because another thing that has not been suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11721	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11722	The Honorable Chairman. I think you're going to say that I'm effective today, and here and now I'm going to continue in the same tone and rhythm, this is how it was. So on the commission, we clearly said not to mention the jurisdiction of agriculture, the jurisdiction of entities, cantons, districts, as it's all clear, but what's the point here. These are the questions that unite us because we all need to eat. Not us, but the ones we represent, and we always swear and hide behind them. This is the point. So, to point out, I supported the report, but I was against conclusions. Here's why. It's just like we had before, they remember colleagues who were in the last term, every year when it's pre-election to push the VAT down on food products, children's food, books, and this blue diesel. Who needs blue diesel in September when there's nothing to marry, all dry? Get ready for October, as soon as the elections pass, that one knows exactly how, if it's worth going to the fall seed. Let's take care of it right now. The least of our problems will be with us. I really, not that I know much, but as friends, I call you, these are questions that can bring us together, so it's going to come in turn that heavy, a little harder. But this, which my grandmother would say, so you laugh all you want, I don't think you're the chairman, but those behind my back, all the seas, and you're the kid down in Parliament, whatever you want, you're gonna come back to eat a little bit better than the other one. But I'd like you all, but it's not possible. Here's a solution. Who asked for the drought? Last night a thunderbolt broke the pale, rained. What's going to happen, there's no fire, there's no crops, there's nothing, what's going to happen? But I can't take it there to put out the fires in Gacko where it's been burning for days and we'll see how bad it is. So when I hear this data, and this is the farm report,...and the forest, someone with the data comes out and says 50 million marks damage this year from the fire. So if I know anything from math, then I can figure it out, it takes 50 years for the forest, if it's just 50 million now, it's 2.5 billion. Well, where he found it, some kind of expert under alleged signs, and he didn't come out of the office. No commission has ever claimed anything about what happened to agriculture? What's the damage? What's it gonna be? 69 Since I promised to be efficient, I'm looking up, I'm not going to cross for three minutes. So, people, these are the questions we have to deal with. And not to stress, it's clear the entity's jurisdiction is agriculture, jurisdiction is another entity, district, canton. But wherever you are, you don't say in Mostar, give me bread from Herzegovina, but where it came from and where it's cheaper. And mine in Banja Luka and the Palace, give us cheaper bread, give us cheaper grains, and he's nowhere to be found, the question is how are we going to find him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11723	I thank the honourable representative. Not only was it effective but it was effective, because efficiency means doing the right thing, and the efficiency of doing it is in the right way. So, next for the debate, distinguished representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11724	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Reading the conclusions of our Commission on Foreign Trade and Customs, I have failed to find one thing that I appreciate is crucial, so if it is the chairman of the Commission here, there is no one I see, or any of the members of the commission, I ask them to consider a little after this discussion, whether these conclusions might be complete with another conclusion. Not a single conclusion, when they are read, so the first one talks about taking over the legal course of the EU, the second one talks about the map of the road activity and the creation of conditions for exporting products of animal and plant origin from BiH, the third one talks about the obligation of the Council of Ministers and the Directorate for indirect taxation relating to this blue diesel and the fourth one talks about the IPA funds. So there are no key things in any conclusion. It is for me when it comes to agricultural production, agricultural production, as it is clear, so in the EU and nowhere in the world is there without an appropriate incentive policy. A colleague, Vrankić, said something about it and it is true, so half of France's budget goes to those purposes. The EU budget has recently been structured so that half of it has gone to foster agricultural production, now half of it is divided, half of it is left for agricultural production, and the other half again for this rural development, in a way agricultural production again. Here we have described the policy of incentives, in our 2011 report on page, in Chapter VI, point 2. ...on page 42 to 53 of this report. And I think that the policy of incentives in agricultural production in BiH is not adequate and as long as we don't get that thing right, we won't have the right agricultural production. That's why I think there would be one conclusion missing here yet, perhaps one conclusion of the 5th, and to consider someone from the Commission how to formulate it, I'm not an expert on this area, but I have so much knowledge, I think of these generals that I can speak on this subject and in this way, yes, that it might be in charge of the Council of Ministers to work with entity governments, to make this a special conclusion, so the government of the Brcko District of BiH is being considered, so the issue of politics and incentives in BiH and perhaps another more effective, a better incentive system that would lead to the improvement of agricultural production in our country. I think that's the conclusion missing from this committee and I, here I call, if someone from the commission is there, please take this into consideration, and let's see that maybe together we can make some conclusion that would be voted on. That's it, thank you. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11725	Thank you. But here's what I'd recommend you get in touch with him in writing, so prepare those conclusions to the end. The replica was reported by distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11726	Thank you. Well, one might be correcting the wrong quote, but I'll use only my colleague Džaferović, more like a clagort for one suggestion. The EU spent more than 80% of its budget, hence the EU's budget to implement the common agricultural policy. And that up to the last budgetary financial perspective has fallen to about 47-48%, most under the pressure of international trade organisations, engagements, arrangements and so on, and new rules now in recent times by the world trade organisation. Among other things, and why I'm saying this I'm going to use as a clagort, if incentives are banned, no investment in agriculture is currently banned, which is, right, a hit in the world, especially in regions, world-wide regions that are dramatically affected by climate change. I just want those who are a little concerned with this problem to remind and draw attention to the fact that one of the regions in the world is particularly apostrophe with a very high degree of risk of climate change on all branches that are related to climate change, that is tourism, agriculture and so on, the region of Southeast Europe. So we need to talk differently. Incentives, incentives and so on, we cannot go to the EU full mouths and ask that we use what they used or used some countries. Secondly, since we are already making a small comparison with some countries, the only relevant indicator is how much to support agricultural production is spent percentage of GDP. And when you look at that, you will see a drastically small percentage of GDP here in the EU budget of the budget, is it, the total EU, or all countries, which is of course no relevant indicator for BiH. This is the key to us – investments in agriculture, especially in those areas, and there is agriculture to compensate for the negative effects of climate change on that branch. It should not even be professional in this area, we all know that, we all feel it, and especially what counterpart Vrankić mentioned at the outset that it reflects on food shortages, food price hikes, and now you will see it chainfully in these desperate financial conditions that it will all reflect financial flows throughout the world and especially in those countries that are sensitive to this. I'm sorry, I used this as a correction to the wrong quote, but I'm a little bit of a maybe.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11727	I thank the honourable representative for this clarification. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11728	Thank you. I would like, colleagues and fellow MPs, to present my opinion on this item of the agenda. When it comes to production and incentive, we have just had the opportunity to hear 71 farmers need to be helped in the form of some subsidy that refers to, I think, certain products or structures in general, I think it is unfortunate that we here in this House decide in this way. Because we want our respective ministries, both by cantons and entities, and even by the State Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, if they wanted to do something concrete, that would certainly do it. But I'm afraid it's not a wish. Here's just look at the data of this report, on pages 18 and 19, so I don't know, but what I specifically wanted to bring out. In BiH we produce the most plums, apples and pears – plums 157 thousand tonnes, apples 75, pears and so much. Among the vegetables: potatoes, cabbage, onions, tomatoes, these are tens of thousands of tons, of which 412 thousand potatoes. However, of all these cultures more than 40, 45% we import. If you'd like me to, just one example, I had an example two months ago to go, experience, I felt ugly but essentially prepared to, in a way, set this example. At the border with Slovenia, my old friends, thinking about what to bring them, I took two liters of brandy domestically, and you know what was at the border when I didn't, I didn't want to say I had nothing but two liters of brandy, he says – and, please, he says – open the trunk. I open the trunk, and it says, two liters, yes, but only one you can bring. I said, "What am I going to do with this other one?" He says nothing, come out here and behind the customs block you take a bottle, take a nice one, come out, and a bucket, I don't know... And I had to spill it nice and bottle into the glass container. [[You don't understand.]] I'm looking, so there's nothing we can't get into Bosnia. No Niko asks me, just a big truck, we get a chance to hear the Directorate of Direct Taxation, Customs Administration, Customs, some sleep, some watch, one watch, one stares – they watch and they hide. Definitely when it comes to it, here at this point all of what we really produce if we wanted to protect it wouldn't be a problem. I think we're at least acting a little bit like a country, that is, in the spirit of a good master, a host, to protect these of ours... I definitely don't think that this procedure about giving blue gasoline or kerosene, I don't know what they're offering people, but farmers aren't interested. I had the opportunity to speak to the presidents of the Association. If they would ransom us from what we produce, he says. I think sometimes in the old days, not to say, the system of the former Yugoslavia and now until '96, '97. In the years of the agricultural cooperatives, however, as privatisation took hold, it definitely stopped. The state, if it wants to solve this problem, must guarantee the ransom, even if it buys it at some normal price and sells it to our processors. This will eliminate everyone and please the farmers. Believe me, four months ago in this House, I proposed and initiated that entity prime ministers meet with their ministers and try to find a solution, as the RS prime minister went to Bulgaria and, as likely to come to a crisis, agreed on certain amounts of wheat. And here we are, look at the 58 thousand tons of wheat that was once sown now we have 21,000. That's 44% again, let's not say, deficit. I think the state should react in that part, and that's the only way we're going to solve the problem. These little ones, that, first of all, what the federal level suggests is that the incentives are in gasoline or oil, I think it's clean because of the choices and their reinforcements, and I don't think it should be supported at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11729	Thank you. If I'm allowed as a doctor to reach out, it's certainly better that he spilled the brandy than he drank. The next is Honorable Representative Adnan Bašić. Here's 72.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11730	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A few days ago, I was in Herzegovina and Dalmatia. I was offered some of the things that people here have seen smartly – food in BiH are afraid that next year or maybe next year will be for many mental nouns. It is very nice to note that our Council of Ministers, together with their colleagues from the entity and Brcko District, are sitting down and seriously envisioning solutions, and if it is necessary even to hold an extraordinary session of the State Parliament and to establish a strategy of concern for the food and nutrition of BiH residents. Believe the situation is difficult. And surely, I am an old man; I am the oldest among you; I remember the year of the famine. There is one wisdom of our old who says: it is a difficult winter, son, but a hungry spring is three times harder. For God's sake, judging by everything that's threatened this country, Bosnia and Herzegovina will be a very, very ugly spring for us. Here, from many discussions, this is already true. That's why I think it would be really good to come up with a real strategy that, in an enormous collection, galloping a gathering that's waiting for us for every kilogram of any food. Whether for men or for cattle, which many forget, for it can come to true pestilence and our little cattle that survived this drought, for they will have nothing to feed them. And you know the consequences. So, this is a very serious problem, and I believe that the Council of Ministers must accept this very seriously and that, if both Parliament's homes are needed, we, if necessary, must do so and accept the strategy of protecting our population from hunger. I'm sorry, but I have to say, that's exactly how I'm starving. Everyone's gonna have money to get food if this keeps up. ...have a little joke with our Dalmatians, if nothing else can be caught, so at least you won't be hungry. And what do we catch, no more in the rivers and lakes, when we're passing Lake Buck, there's no fish as a word? A very serious question, and I thank all MPs who have thought as much as I have, will have to come up with something in the next period – a way out for a curse called hunger, and many generations older remember that, it has never been repeated, that it does not return to us, a very, very serious question. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11731	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11732	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. A few sentences about agriculture. So, we're all surprised and terrified here about the situation where agriculture, rural development, the food sector, but the problem is, I mean, I'm sorry that yesterday there were no more colleagues at our Commission's meeting on foreign trade and customs... Mr. nešković gave a real picture of the situation and added this information to the report on the situation in agriculture. What's the problem? The problem is, on the one hand, strengthening administrative capacity. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. BiH has taken over the obligation to modernise and restructure the entire agricultural and rural sector. The problem, of course, is not only at the state level but also at the entity level. So, that famous problem of 73 coordination, i.e. lack of coordination and sychronization of activities. We have formed a technical team to coordinate activities at the state level, consisting of representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, as well as various agencies and offices at the state level. There are also representatives of adequate entity ministries. The problem, however, is that I can't agree on that either. There is no unity within the canton or within the Federation when it comes to the adoption or takeover of the AKI. Again, different legal solutions are being taken between the RS and the Federation of BiH so that we do not have at the level of the entity to each other, so if we pull that parallel, neither at the state level, so co-ordination nor evening of the legal solutions. Another problem is strengthening administrative capacity. Maybe a couple of statistical indicators. In the BiH area, I think the level of entities and states is only 300 employees, so at all levels dealing with the problems of agriculture and rural development. For example, the Republic of Serbia has over 3,000 people who deal, so in the ministries and agencies, mentioned in the problem, taking over AKI, co-ordination and sychronisation. The Republic of Croatia, over 2,000, Macedonia, which is about as much like us, or smaller, has as many as 1,000 people dealing with this problem. Also... the problem and encouragement Mr. Džaferović said, so there is no sychronization and there is not enough separation. BiH stands out more than 550 million KM, but the problem is that the singles are ineffective and what you said is ineffective is whether. So we don't have a strategy, a strategy to raise funds and incentives. Croatia stands out over a billion, calculated in KM, and per hectare of arable area much more than BiH. What's our solution? Well, the solution is to finally create an operational programme for BiH for agriculture, nutrition and rural development. If you've looked a little bit, I hope it is, the site of our Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations we have here, it's not called a strategy but it's called the Strategic Plan for Harmonization of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development. If we were to operate on at least one part of these measures, if we really had the right coordination and synchronization between different levels then we would have a much better situation than we really have right now. I think it's one of the solutions. Maybe at this point we're not flying out, so to speak, with certain conclusions, with certain solutions when those solutions already exist. So our ministry has already produced a very high-quality material in the previous period in 2008. It is now only for us to operate on these substances, to bring appropriate legal and sublegal solutions in order to finally implement the strategy,... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11733	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11734	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Well, sometimes when you're discussing what strategic materials and strategic goods are, then you're talking about defending the country, it's very important that we have secure borders and so on. with weapons, but under number two, food. Now we're lucky we don't have to invest more significant resources in it, but we're the ones who are left behind and we shouldn't invest in defense then we should invest in food production. 74 What is it that we do? In RS, since the laws and ministries of agriculture are on entities and cantons, certain efforts have been made to ensure that farmers survive in such a difficult year and that, that is, to survive a cattle fund that is in an extremely difficult situation. Now you have a mass where the corn, which should have come for harvest in a month, are converted to silage only to feed the cattle. This will cause extremely large losses in the reduction of the number of throats, and for reconstruction, that, since I do not deal with this job, I need a much larger or longer period of time. It's an entity thing to fight it. You can also solve irrigation because I spoke to experts when it comes to fruit. It's not this, this fruit hasn't adapted to 48 and 50 degrees, you can keep it in the water, it can't withstand that temperature that's from the outside. Global warming requires some other things to be planned and done. For those reasons, when we just turn what it is that anyone should do, if we properly deploy what they're responsible for, then we have a good chance of getting through this crisis. Two years are dry, which is a guarantee that it won't be in next year. What we are doing, what we are doing to try to incentivize our farmers in some way, or to give incentives, so that they can produce competitive goods. Let's just say in wine production, when you go west, you can find lots of quality wines for about 5-6 euros, which you don't have a chance in our rooms, you don't stand a chance. With us with no 10 or 20 marks and no quality wine. What's the reason? The reason is because they provide extremely large resources in the incentive. So we have to look in every way for solutions to cut costs where it's not supposed to, and as much as possible to leave the means to encourage agriculture, or from, and production, not just agriculture, because through the incentives of agriculture, the conditions will open that we start producing machines, tools, accessories, etc., all that is needed, and that is, agriculture will be the key driver for all of this. And I hope that we will take seriously the situation in which we have found ourselves, because everything the people can endure but hunger will not be possible. For these reasons, my appeal is to look wherever it is possible, to reduce costs, so that more of those who are in charge, and here above all, I mean at the entity level, at the incentive of agriculture and at all economy. I think it's in the food future, if not in full export capacity, then at least for the needs of domestic production. You know, we all go home when we're cooking, we're all looking anyway, we're waiting for homemade tomatoes, homemade peppers, etc., to get it ready, not to go to an import site that's a lot, much worse quality. But that's why you need to find a modus how these importing houses that simply have their own library(?) They destroyed the farmers with prices. I think that's what Mr. Ljubić was talking about. Let the Council of Ministers find solutions and leave this to the entities and let them handle it in their own way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11735	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11736	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. This is obviously a very grateful matter for the elaborate on all possible topics and from all possible approaches. Here we have one area in the state of BiH for which everyone is in charge, the municipalities, the Federation, the cantons, the entities, and here as well as the state is messing around, even through these reports that it delivers to us. And if we were to look by decentralisation or by the broad powers of all, we should have all 75 blooming here, from what we've heard so far, blooming, blooming everything. From what we've heard so far, I'm not sure the condition is close to that flowering thing. This report is a good statistical summary of the situation in this area. So we saw the state of imports of agricultural products, so we see the state of export of agricultural products. So we saw that how many of the heated agricultural surfaces are processed, we see how many of them are unscanned. We've heard that in this area of economy, economies, however you will, along with all levels of government, with all those who deal with it and have other influences none of these levels can influence, which are called either floods, or droughts, or fire, or frost, or I don't know what else, what's going on. But here, I must say, unfortunately, in one part, it is certain that the measures previously adopted, including in this Parliament, and if we have followed all these measures in more detail, we do not have here what of these measures is realised and we do not have on these largely negative indicators any more urgent measures. I'm looking at these days like you, now we're trying to convince ourselves of what, I don't understand much in this area, to be honest, that someone doesn't mind me, maybe I'm going to break in, but I'm following, I'm watching the media, I see, I see, I see that people who are dealing with this, who are living off of this, very worried about the difficult situation, the hard consequences, the heavy losses, and we have policies (?We have everyone who deals, I just don't see, I haven't heard that there are some quick and effective measures, so that at least a little bit can be taken care of, I won't say repairing the situation, repairing the enormous damage. This morning, we heard a respected representative, Ljubić, suggesting a hasty adoption of certain measures from the Council of Ministers' jurisdiction. I would like, without the intention of criticising any minister in particular, that this point is, and I think it's an important point, introducement with a proposal for emergency measures today tabled by a resolute minister, so in that coordination, if even the entity ministers had come to tell us, here's what they're planning, what they're doing. Not that we are involved in jurisdiction and authority, but that at least we have information that the public through this information hears what all the authorities think is going to do to resuscitate this situation. And I'm thinking, here's the whole time listening to and discussing and looking at this material, which is the purpose of considering this material. These few conclusions we're going to make, 5, 4, 15, nothing's going to change. Because we're making conclusions that aren't being carried out, and here we've been reminded in this report that we've made some conclusions and recommendations that aren't being implemented before. There's no rush measures. Who's the one who's supposed to propose? Are we going to propose to the MPs? Because otherwise we've taken to suggest, to consume everything that someone else should do and not do, then we take it as if we were going to do something, so we suggest that as much as we can fix the situation, which I don't think is good. The policy of incentives that is often mentioned here, I have my layman's attitude about this policy of encouragement. But I'd like someone competent to tell us, and I think people who work in these restaurants that they should be competent to tell us whether these forms, these types, this policy of encouragement, are good or not. If it's no good, they'll offer us other models. At this point, we have a policy of incentives in agriculture to take money from those who work well, through taxes, and then, depending on our own criteria, we give this money without any criteria to those who do not work or do not work, or have little to do with agriculture at all. I'll remind you that we've been asking a few questions about ways, how the incentives for this were used in the Federation. I must honestly say, I have no information on how these funds were available in the RS. Is that the way? Is it possible, is it even right to take from someone who works and give as an incentive? Wouldn't it be more right for those of you who want to work in this sector to unload possible and impossible burdens so they can work at all? Is it possible that the state can provide incentives, all of these levels... when I say the state thinks of all those who deal with it, to provide farmers under more favourable conditions all that goes for agriculture. From, here someone mentioned here, I think it's also mentioned here in the conclusion of 76 commissions, a proposal, the benefited fuel prices, the benefited oil prices, the benefited prices for the purchase of the necessary machines, the benefited prices or particularly favourable seed loans, the fertilizers and everything else that is used. And, acquittals, perhaps, of some taxes, imposes on me to say so, so that this area that we just say, this way when we discuss it, how strategic it is, how important it is, how it is the future, how unfortunately, because we're not so technologically developed, we don't want to have to put our eyes on, and we and those who deal with it, and we see that there's no negligible number of employees in that area. So, I don't know, these conclusions that are proposed here, the least we can do is support them, but I'm not sure this is a good way. So, I'm not sure that a good way to observe one, one very important, is not to say one of the most important areas in BiH, and I'm not sure that it's an effective and effective way to get results, to improve the situation in this area. So, I support this report as good, good state information, but I will also support it in general, I will not dispute it for this other one, but I would like to have a much more concrete programme of measures in this report, especially emergency measures in response to the current difficult situation in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11737	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11738	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I've got a few things to try to say. I'm no expert in this area, but I'm here somewhere, first related branch... I absolutely understand these things. I understand from that aspect that my father is retired, but he deals with one branch of agriculture, and he's hit by this drought as well as all the farmers. And it's a difficult situation, these people are really suffering. Now that we're talking about wheat, here it is, I've been a little initiated by some MPs, when we talk about wheat and sushi, it's not a good idea this year to connect wheat and drought. This year, record offerings were in BiH, and otherwise in the region as far as the grains are concerned, so was the wheat, but it was the problem that was sown little. Small areas are sown, so the fact that it did have an extra good yield on the parcels, it's a small amount, so it's a little bit of sown wheat, so we've got a little bit of it. So if we sowed more, it would be more. And that's where the authorities, when I say the authorities, I mean from the municipalities and beyond, where they were supposed to get involved, are going to hire more sown parcels. What else was I gonna say? I couldn't agree more with what Mr. Lozančić was saying. Here, today, I've been agreeing with him all day, but in this part, I have to agree with these conclusions. I've been on this committee, so I'm a member of this committee who's decided on this and I've been abstentioned by these conclusions. Why? These conclusions, as Mr. Lozančić said, and so I absolutely share that opinion, should have gone the other way, on the other hand. It was meant to come from agricultural producers, first of all, that they give their opinion, not on the Commission, that the distinguished colleagues sitting in front of me, I, Mr Bojić, Mr Slavko and the other members of the Commission, Mr Vrankić and the others, should decide what to do. So the initiative was supposed to start from farmers, farmers, farmers, and go, so it means, in turn, to some advisory service in the 77 local community, so the advisory service to give its opinion to the entity ministries, or canton, that they take what they need. First the local communities to do what they can and need, second the entities to take what they can and need, and then finally what they cannot solve, or what is not in the entity's domain, to come to us, means to come to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and to set themselves up and that they give us suggestions of conclusions, means together with the Report to adopt these conclusions. And not to sit as a Commission, meaning where people sit, there is absolutely no farmer or any agricultural engineer, there is no agronomist or anything else in that Commission, and we are now giving some conclusions and here we are. I'll just read the first one, they're just like everyone else. It is proposed that the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations in co-operation with the competent institutions at all levels of BiH authorities in the field of agriculture in the Federation of BiH, RS, Brcko District of BiH and cantons, approach the establishment of a coordinated framework in the design of the plan, take over the EU acquis in line with sector priorities with focus on EU rules on facilitating trade in bh agricultural products with the EU. You know how much this is going to help alleviate this crisis right now, do you know how much this is going to help this drought situation and everything? So all the other conclusions are similar and I think it's absolutely empty. This is a big failure. I was absolutely against all of this and one of these conclusions. I didn't want to support this because, for this very reason, it's our farmers who are suffocating. They have a serious problem, they have serious losses, so in steep grains were maximum yields, but that's why corn yields, here's still not done these investigative works to see how much damage we're making to corn. No one has yet determined how many mistakes there will be on the fruit, almost that vegetables and other agricultural activities I think are also huge losses and no one has said how much it is yet, no one has come seriously. In this report, this is for, this is practical and of course you can't talk, this is for 2011, but when we have relevant facts and data, then we can draw conclusions. If this accident that hit our farmers, if the reaction will wait a year, in that year, what Boško was saying, will disappear the mass of the livestock fund, the question is what will happen to the autumn seed, the question of what will happen to the spring seed. So for our reaction that's supposed to wait a year, it's going to choke on that mass. So I suggest that absolutely these conclusions don't go into any more serious debate today, and I don't think they contribute to anything, and I'm not, after all, that it's like some conclusion that we've done something. We just rub people's eyes and even irritate them, irritate people who do that production, because this absolutely means nothing. If it went the other way, if it had come to us in that way, it would have drank water and it could have meant something. What I'm about to tell you about information, the forest is drying up a lot. And there's gonna be serious problems, so... that fund of ours, our resources we trust a lot, and it's drying up a lot. The question is, what are they going to do in the spring? So, the mass of the problem is, it's coming our way, and we're, like, making some conclusions. I think they need expert conclusions from every area, especially this one. I think these people who scare us with this global warming, so now you can see there in the papers, predict 60 of these years. What scientist said and who seriously signed a study that would be 60 of these years. But if that's true, then we really need to change the strategy of everything. So that's where we're gonna have some serious problems. They say there will be many rainfalls in winter, and that summer temperatures will reach over 40 without problems. So, as far as this is concerned, I think that agriculture should be looked at, but it is not necessary to look at the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs and to draw some conclusions, and to learn from that, and that it depends on agriculture in BiH. So, people who definitely, I'm a member of the Commission that, and I've been abstentioned by these proposals and we don't need us, we're the ones who, at the end of 78, need to help them on the basis of these people's proposals, not that we're now making some kind of science out of it and...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11739	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11740	Thank you very much. I don't want any more jokes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11741	Thank you. Dear colleague Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11742	Of course we're all worried, but first of all, I hope we're all aware of the situation we're in and the responsibilities we have and our responsibilities that have nothing to do with what we're talking about. We've been discussing this for an hour. Here I am, calling to say that I'm worried and that we all know, but that we're not simply in charge of what we're talking about. I reported that a gentleman from the Centre of Civil Initiatives signed me up to discuss and take part in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11743	This is another reason why the Centre of Civil Initiatives should not follow the session, because that is the only reason MPs appear. All right, esteemed colleague Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11744	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. We are already in a more immediate phase of the debate on this report, so I would not even like to talk about the issues already mentioned, nor to draw some difficult topics at this stage right now, but I would like to refer to the part of my colleague Bursać's discussion. In fact, the real question is what can be achieved by debate in the BiH Parliament on improving the situation of agriculture. In fact, we are facing the need for urgent action today. So the situation is critical and measures are required to give rapid effects. Such arsenals do not have BiH, BiH institutions do not have a debate on such a situation in this House is just some expression of condolences and an expression of some moaning over the situation in agriculture. However, I think it is necessary to plan the action so that the levels that have resources, have institutional capacities, should intervene urgently. And yet at the state level, there is a need to make a planned plan of measures that will give effect in a year, in two years, and will not then find us unprepared to face problems that will depend on the functioning, life, life in agriculture. I therefore believe that it is really necessary to give a focus 79 on those measures that the BiH institutions, either independently corrosive veterinary offices, through the taking of fitness sanitary measures, etc., agreeing with EU standards and requirements, to give priority or activities that can be tackled on the agenda in common with entity, cantonal or other levels, in order to address the problems that exist in the present situation. Otherwise, we can now laminate over the state-level lack of the agriculture ministry, and we could have it. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'm sorry, that's not true at all, this ministry should be dedicated to international aspects, European aspects of agriculture, and it's known that agriculture management today is on the principles of protectionism. So if there's protectionism anywhere today in the economy, then it's protectionism in the area of agriculture. This, the appropriate forms of it, using the scarce resources we have, given that we are a small open economy, we must also support it. But we cannot take protectionism as it is taken by the EU, and we have no resources, we have no potential in agriculture, and we cannot have the potential to position agriculture exclusively in domestic consumption. We must turn it to regional, European markets and even the world market. So in this sense, I think that we can still benefit from this debate if the conclusions focus exclusively on what are responsibilities and opportunities at BiH's institutional level to encourage measures in the area of agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11746	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Salvko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11747	First of all, my dear professor, I'm sorry, I don't tend to throw away, especially to you, but that's how it came along, so I'm sorry. And another digression, the Ministry of Agriculture has Hungary, at the level of Hungary, I follow that data, it will take them 50 years to return the stock fund, if they succeed at all, because the EU says the quotas are so much export and hello, and their livestock is destroyed. And they have a state-level ministry of one and only. But by strategy, someone destroyed them. I agree completely with you, and it's an honor not to have sex with you, but to exchange and to sit in the same order, we're not in the same party, and we'll never be.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11748	No microphone 80 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11749	Of course, it's an honor, but Professor, you can't compare this country to another. It's impossible, I said, on the example of Hungary, I was a guest to them. Honored to be in the EU, I apologize if anyone conveys this to them, honored. But, you know, politics is dominant in other areas. It's still in the KGB's head. Although 25 years ago, they left that alliance there. How are those people doing? Stronger presses and determines what will happen. We're a small, micro country and the replica only applies to this part. I was against these conclusions because they don't contribute, and all my colleagues agree, no one will get better, but even farmers can't give a BiH development strategy. We can do it. Let's say some entities,... we can't order entities, but from the level of BiH that at least, what's our jurisdiction, we release import duties, I don't know these. Well, I suggested three years ago, coffee, we all drink, maximum customs and excise duties, cigarettes, 30 brand boxes, so I smoke, too, so let's see how we're gonna do. There's money for agriculture, but no one will. What am I supposed to do, Professor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11750	Thank you. Is there anyone else who'd like to hear from you? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 12th point, Ad. 12. Report on the work of the Investigation Commission on both BiH Parliamentary Assembly homes to check the legality of the ammunition destruction process, mine-explosive means, weapons and military equipment On 25.07., the Commission submitted the report and proposed to the House that under: 1. It adopted a report on the work of the investigating commission of both homes for the verification of legality, that it means adoption of the report. 2. A report with complete documentation, based on the work of the Investigation Commission, shall be made available to the Prosecutor's Office of BiH if the Prosecutor's Office requests it together with adopted records and unauthorized transcripts with seven held meetings of the Investigation Commission, materials delivered by the BiH Ministry of Defence, the Joint Staff of the Armed Forces of BiH and the UNDP Office in Sarajevo. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11752	Well, we're all tired, but let me just say a few words about this report. So you saw that the report was made by the Joint Defence and Security Commission, six of its members, three of the House of Peoples and three of the House of Representatives. So, next to me who chaired this investigation committee, she was a colleague of Nermina Zaimović Uzunović, Mr 81 Božo Ljubić, and Borjana Krišto, Mehmed Bradarić and Staša Košarac from the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. The entire work of the Investigation Commission was followed by representatives of international organisations and by OSCE missions in BiH, NATO headquarters in Sarajevo and EUFOR Command. You saw from the material that was delivered to us that the Commission had held seven sessions and that this report unanimously adopted it. Here you have the findings of the investigation committee. Just before I spoke at one of the previous points, I showed you seven registrators of the documents that the representatives of the Ministry of Defence during the hearing, and also after that, made available to the Commission of Investigation. So, all those who want to look at these finds have documents in front of them. What's really the basic thing about this case. As you know, the Commission has had a complex task, which is to check the legality of the process of destruction of ammunition and mine-explosives, weapons and military equipment... quite a long period, in the period 2006-2010. And as you can see, during the verification, the Commission has come to the conclusion that there have been irregularities, the lack of procedures by the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces, which says a large number of documents stored in the archives that have been brought here, and that the number of documents as you have seen it is ready to be sent to the prosecution if they require it, and I just said that almost 15 individual cases are being conducted where the investigation is going, which by the prosecution, which is by SIPA. Therefore, the basic thing that can be concluded from this work of the Investigation Commission is that, on the basis of the documents collected, it is evident that during the period 2006 to 2010, representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces did not exercise control over the process of destroying excess weapons, ammunition and explosives, and it is evident that the management of the Ministry of Defence and responsible persons in the Joint Staff did not follow the course of the destruction, nor did further deal with debosed elements and explosives. Also, what has not been provided to the Commission as convincing evidence is that the total amount of ammunition destroyed and mine-explosive assets, weapons and military equipment has been delivered in the form of reports to the Joint Commission for the Defence and Security of Different Data. So, the Defence and Security Commission, in the last session, has since 2009 received 3-4 reports that were to be adopted and each differed from the previous one. So this has brought in doubts about how the Ministry of Defence works and it has also led to and formed this Commission of Investigation. It's a special matter of explosives. The investigation committee has been distracted by the irresponsibility of the Ministry of Defence's anti-explosion behaviour, which is a special security issue. There is no record of where large quantities of explosives obtained by the deboration process ended and how they were trafficked. Also, the important thing facing the Commission is the issue of the role and work of the UNDP. The UNDP, whose task was to assist this process, has practically taken over everything from the Ministry of Defence, I have led, I have had, therefore, no valid documentation. So, the only document was the Memorandum of Understanding signed in 2005. In years, and that the Memorandum of Understanding was signed retroactively, so that it could not formally affect the content of the signed documents... the documents involved. What I also want to say is that the Memorandum of Understanding, the destruction of ammunition and mine-exposure funds between the defence ministry and the UNDP on the one hand and the UNDP and UNIS, PRETIS on the other, is signed. However, no contract has ever been signed between the defence ministry and UNIS-PROTIS, causing the entire process of destruction of ammunition and mine explosives to be carried out beyond the defence ministry's procedures and controls. 82 It was also found that despite warnings from the Department of Defence, we have a written document that speaks about it, signed a document avoiding the payment of VAT for equipment intended for decommissioning in commercial capacities, which could damage BiH's budget. There are a lot of things here to draw attention to, and certainly many who were interested in this review could see it, but the fact is that destroying the method of decommissioning in commercial capacity with a reduction of secondary raw materials carried out without the Presidency's decisions, based on individual defence ministers' decisions. What I would like to point out as an important thing, is that the Commission has proposed two conclusions, because here it is taxing on what findings it has come to. And each of these results is followed by certain documentation stored in the archive. It proposes that the Commission adopts the Report, the House, to adopt the report on the work of the Research Commission and to make the report with complete documentation, on which the Commission's work is based, available to the prosecution if necessary in one of the cases and thus end this matter that has been under way for several years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11753	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11754	Although it is, of course, seven months late, as well as everything that is late for us, and a little while later, it loses it to the urgency and so on, that is, usability, I absolutely acknowledge the work of this Commission, and I appreciate the efforts that have been made and the result that it has been made. It's a matter of our understanding, therefore, of very serious matters. The numbers of 23 thousand tonnes of ammunition or 5 kg per capita in BiH are being used, and in the public, you have witnessed, there have been frightening news, confusing news, gone, destroyed, not destroyed, etc. I'm not going to convince, of course, Mrs. Majkić made the report. I was particularly impressed by the fact that it was found that illegal exports of allegedly destroyed weapons were carried out. So the illegal export of weapons allegedly destroyed. I tell you the truth, maybe I don't have any further ideas what this Parliament should have suggested, maybe you should have thought about personal responsibility, here you're only talking about criminal responsibility through the prosecution, the judiciary, etc., I don't know if there were any possibilities, and whether it was late or post-festum, that someone is also responding as a official, as a worker in terms of that work responsibility. So perhaps the Commission should have done something about it. I am a little confused and I have a question – so are these materials going to be delivered to the D.A. or if they ask for it? I'm about to deliver it to the D.A.'s office, have them check it out, have them look at it and see the elements of the crimes and then proceed. If we wait for someone to ask for it, I doubt it will be requested. Here, congratulating, of course, the work of the Commission and the willingness to support the report and these conclusions, I would like you to explain to me if you thought, when we adopt the conclusion today, that the materials are heading towards 83 of the Prosecution or this sentence – if the Prosecutor's Office asks. If you think he's going to the D.A., delete this sentence if the D.A. asks.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11755	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11756	Thank you, colleague Belkić. In the original version of the Report, it was correct to deliver it to the Prosecutor's Office, but then there were some representatives, i.e. members of the Commission who felt that they should stand there – if requested. So here is my conscience calm and Parliament can adopt it anyway.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11757	Dear colleague Senad Šepić. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] There's no need. First deputy chairman, distinguished colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11759	I was a member of this Committee and, therefore, added to my intervention – if the prosecution asks. In fact, this Parliament should not act as judicial bodies. So, the prosecution is doing a criminal investigation and this Parliament has prepared enough material for those in charge, so to prosecute possible crime is at our disposal all of what we had in mind, including all of our discussions. It is therefore not up to this Parliament to conduct criminal investigations and to intervene with the functions of judicial authorities. That's my opinion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11760	Thank you. Here, before counterpart Belkić reports, I think we can get out of this situation in a way that if we adopt today, we can deliver our report to the prosecution. And if they need the material that is present here, then ask the Commission for the material. And that's how we solved this dilemma. If you don't mind? A colleague, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11761	I agree, as far as I'm concerned, I can accept such a solution. However, I would like to explain to Mr. Ljubić the motives of my discussion. So, I understand what you're talking about, but this has been an investigative commission which in its findings and its report speaks of illegalities, clearly speaks of illegalities. You're talking about illegal exports of allegedly destroyed weapons. If that's 84 right, then I'll give it to the D.A. right away. You have to give it to me. If you have found that there are no records in the warehouse, debt, etc., you are required to give. It's a crime, it's stolen. That's what this is about. Those were my motives. But here, if it's a commitment to deliver this report and hopefully someone will read it there in the D.A.'s office and see the interest, here I'll support it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11762	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11763	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I agree with this finding that Parliament should not assume on itself the role of law enforcement bodies and agencies, but I cannot conclude that we have 15 points of the Commission's findings here. Except for this, if we don't deal with some other people's affairs, the question is why do we deliver anything to the D.A.'s office, why deliver anything to the D.A.'s office, it's, if we don't take over the role of investigative authorities. This was still an investigative committee. And you are rightly respected colleague Kunić, and for this reason, this is the introduction I am making, the question is asked, and why have we done this? I don't think we did priority work to deliver it to the D.A.'s office. So, I don't think it's bad for the D.A. to be delivered, but I don't think that's the essence of these investigations in committees. I wish there was a conclusion, I can't right now, I have to say I'm not so brilliant that I can suggest smart conclusions right now. This is what I support, this report I support, I welcome the Commission, everything is fine, but how is it possible for this to happen? And that's the meaning of these investigative committees to me. So, to me, the point is, among other things, not that we're looking for it now, I don't know, or I don't know, some kind of criminal or something, this is a sensitive area. It's about handling, traffic, and I don't know, weapons and military equipment, explosives. So if it was a stock reserve in the Federation, where they say there aren't even 15 tons of corn, and it should be much more, it would be worrying. But this is about weapons and military equipment. And it would be good, I mean this now, this little bit not to be a criticism but to think about whether there are any defects in the system if this is possible. Now that you've discovered that, here's that this is possible is an indication that something needs to be changed in the system. You don't have those conclusions here. And that, in my opinion, is the lack of this report, a lack because there are no proposals for conclusions, or detection whether it's a problem in one of the laws, whether it's just a personal problem in the management, is it, that I'm not guessing now. But it's obvious, so it's obvious that a whole series of institutional failures exist. So that's what I think is the essence of these investigations and debates in Parliament. And I'm going to support this anyway, because I think you've really put a lot of work into it, and you've provided a lot of information. But here, let it stay that perhaps, consider you members of the Committee because it is closer to you, you are much more informed in this area than we have read only this report of yours. However, in the sense that another offer may be offered, if you appreciate that, that there is a need for it, and it seems to me that there is, means what has contributed as a bad solution in the system that such a number of failures in this very important area can occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11764	Replica, dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 85
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11765	More perhaps an explanation of what Mr. Lozančić said. So you saw that the Commission was formed by members of the Joint Defence and Security Commission. I want to tell you that the Joint Defence and Security Committee has entered deep into the Department of Defense. So, many of the things that we have come up with and the findings that we have done have contributed to the reform of the defence system that was launched in 2005 by the adoption of the Law on Defence has remained at that level and has not far gone. There are countless problems on that plan. We asked the Department of Defense to make an action plan, to show us how he intends to get out of here. I also want to say that thanks to the new defence minister, we have all the support in our work and that the Joint Defence and Security Committee has never had such support as it has now. And I am sure that this House should be one of the conclusions – to conduct an analysis of the work at the Ministry of Defence. It's a very important thing and I think that we would come to conclusions that would help this sector improve.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11766	That's the one we replaced. First Deputy Chairman, Mr. Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11767	I was just about to add why we voted for the exchange, but no, I didn't mean that's why I went out. So I went out to sort of answer my colleague Lozančić. It is clear that the failures in the system are large because they took place over a long period of time, and it was precisely the task of this commission to investigate these failures in the system and in the first order of the system of the institutions that are in the jurisdiction of this Parliament. ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] And the system and the system. I'm not a cultist. Another thing, because I speak some foreign language, so then my word is a system with an ipsilone also very close. But, of course, the question is also asked -- what was the prosecution doing if it was a crime, and there are indications that it was, for the past ten years? What did conscious people who did not, if they noticed irregularities, do not report them? Therefore, there are a lot of gaps here in a system that we as the Committee cannot solve or influence, but I think that this one proposal, which was made by fellow Živković, is ultimately sufficient, enough incentive, to say, to those institutions of the system to act if they consider it necessary to act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11769	Thank you. We don't have any more logs. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 14th item of the agenda, Ad.14. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement 86
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11770	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11771	Excuse me, thank you, so it works, yes, yes, the thirteenth point, Ad. 13. Information on Bosnia and Herzegovina's public debt situation on 31.12.2011, BiH Council material The Council of Ministers delivered the Information on 20th. The Commission responsible for the financing of the budget delivered its opinion on 05.09. I'm opening an information debate. Dear colleague Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11773	Thank you very much. First of all, I want to thank the Ministry of Finance for one of these quality information, and I think this is one of the best information we get in this House. And what I am particularly pleased about, given that, if we have a certain continuity, I see constant progress in this reporting, and it is of great importance to make, analyse and make quality decisions in this area. The external responsibility here, whether it's 6.6 billion marks or 23% compared to GDP or internal 11, a total of 34, we often question whether or not we're in charge of the country. To answer this question whether or not we are in charge of the country, I think we should observe it with several aspects. First from the point of view of our creditors, that is, where we are in charge, which is mostly the World Bank,..., the IMF, EBRD, the Paris Club, the London Club, then we can say that these are all to some institutions where we are members, where in some way, is whether, together with them, we work and cooperate, we have certain rights from these contracts and certainly that whenever there is a need to design our obligations we can do so. I'd say they're high-quality credentials and we could give some kind of green light or positive assessment there. A second grade that or a matter where we can estimate whether we're over-indebted or not, which is the average interest rate. We see from this report that she's 1.71, so she's not big, and by my assessment she's positive, and there's also a positive assessment. When it comes to debt structure, then we see both the old and the new long so-called, is what we say before the war, where the ratio is approximately 30:70 and where these two debts are located at the Paris and London Club, I think that, here can be given one positive assessment. And one of the key things for me that's given in the debt assessment, that's sectoral responsibility. We see that when it comes to infrastructure, the total of this debt is 50% on infrastructure. Since the infrastructure belongs to something that is, is it, we usually say, creating an ambience, then we could say, here you can go, but you need to get into the structure, meaning this infrastructure, because here I see from those projects, lists that were that have a lot of things and that for some time there was no control anywhere, but here because it goes in those areas, I could say in some way and that green light. When it comes to the public sector, 36% of it already comes to me in a sphere of concern, it's mostly our budgets, our welfare and everything expensive that in some way I don't think should grow anymore. And what now, and the third item i.e. economic activity and the real sector is only 14%. Judging by this 14% then we're over-indebted country, so out of these total debts only 14% went to where it's being created, here if we can indirectly say, a new value and I think that what has to be one of our basic decisions in the next period to focus more on that part. I'm just going to say that by comparing with other countries, countries that run the world economy, maybe the average of their debt to the GDP is about 100%. Japan seems to me 150, 170%, Italy 100%, but here they are somewhere, somewhere around 100%, but probably this structure is more favourable, much more dominated by the real sector than the public needs. We still haven't improved our engagement enough, i.e. the lack of engagement of funds, we are still paying high-stricken interest, and this should be particularly stressed and tried to minimise this. And what's particularly interesting now in recent times when it comes to service obligations based on a stand-by arrangement, here's who took a little look at this information he saw us in '13, or 14. Year, and then part '15. Our annuity almost doubles, and all thanks to the arrangement we used two years ago, and we know that we used it because we wanted to implement certain structural reforms. And because of that implementation, and it was mostly about the savings, did we, we got one carrot from the IMF to do it, but we didn't implement the reforms, the anuities came to pay off, and I think we did a double damage. We haven't implemented the reforms, we haven't achieved the savings, and we have to return the anuities that are almost for some not very double but close to that in the next two years it's coming back and you see in that structure that says it's worrying. I want to say from the point of view of the new arrangement that is current these days, otherwise I think all the best about the IMF and the arrangements and our membership in the IMF, and I think these are policies that need to be implemented and these are the defects of our policies supported by an institution called the IMF, but I'm not for these short-term loans. I think it should be realised without these loans because it's a period of two, three years that's coming back quickly and in fact if we're not effective, and we know that we're not effective, here today we can conclude this whole day, then it's better without those funds to look for other sources of savings, and of course an arrangement with the IMF anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11774	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11775	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I think Mr. Vrankić presented the basic data and gave a real picture and as a man who worked in the area very professionally handled it. However, it is not worse to repeat some things so that in the coming period we take a little more care of how and what we are in charge of. In 2004, we had an external debt equal to, old and new with 50%, and already in 2011, it increased to 71% of the new debt, or 29 old debt. In that system in the former Yugoslavia, the external 88 debt amounted to $19 billion and we said we were over-indebted. So today when it's divided by this number about and this could be determined at that level that there's a certain over-indebtedness. It might not be if this were invested in the real sector, but since it is invested in infrastructure that is sometimes necessary, although there are some failures, but very large funds are invested in the public sector, so we have a maximum investment in the public sector of about 36% per year, and maximum when we invest in the economy, in economic activities, it was 25%, which is now only 14% of investment in economic activities in 2011, and in the public sector 36, in the infrastructure somewhere around 50. What else should be taken into account, about which experts should lead, the fixed interest debt is 55% and it is 1.48, and with the variable is 44 and it is slightly larger 1.98, and even in some, when the new debt is over 2%. I think that attention should be paid to what funds and how we will repay the debt that is in 2012. – 452 million, 2013 - 753, '14. - 769 and 15. - 540. The external debt will be difficult to repay if only 14% of the total allocated funds, debts in the last year have invested in the real sector, i.e. in the economy. For these reasons, in the total gross social product, external debt participated in us in 2007. - 16%, but in 2011. - 22.8%. Here it takes maximum seriousness for new borrowings to no longer go into public sector borrowing, including infrastructure, but to go into debt exclusively into incentives, i.e. in the development of economy. Because the unemployment rate in BiH is close to 40%, administrative and polling is about 22%. I think that's an extremely large percentage, and if we'd put these assets a little bit more than a percentage from the public sector into business, we'd have had a lower unemployment rate, we'd have a more realistic chance of paying back the debt. So I'm afraid the next year and the next two, three years will be critical of paying off this debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11776	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11777	Well, yeah, I think he can do it under Mr. Tomić's line. I mean, some things are not clear to me from this discussion. You said we should be in charge of the real sector, and here we have a 22nd point where we should be in charge of, or ratifying, the Treaty of Guarantee relating to the Loan Treaty, i.e. the way of Banja Luka – Doboj, Phase 1 of the Project. Now, and you said we shouldn't borrow so much in infrastructure, so a little bit, a little bit, again, I feel like we're talking a little bit more, here's how to say, there's no cameras, there's no one, and I think Mr. Tomić's discussion was a little contradictory with each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11778	Dear colleague Boško Tomić, reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11779	I hope the MPs understood what my wish was in their discussion. And when it comes to borrowing for highways where luck is that instead of public sector funds went into infrastructure, then it would, because by borrowing to build a highway, there are new jobs, there are also increased production and so on. Using its own cement, its own gravel, its own labor force, etc. Your own food. Therefore, it is a far better thing than to be in charge only of administrative, for these, for other services. In this sense, I continue to appeal that it is a much better thing to invest in the economy, i.e. in business activities, but borrowing for the highway is to a good extent, it is a real infrastructure unlike some where it invests in quite unnecessary things, that I do not list here and fall under the infrastructure. So this, this can be considered an investment in the highway as an economic activity because it will benefit and have direct effects first and then we will have faster flow and faster communication when it comes to the transport of our goods to Europe.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11780	Thank you. Dear colleague Darko Babalj, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11781	Well, I'm replicating and I don't even know who I'm replicating. As far as I know, every debt we've ratified here, or that we must give consent to it. And as far as I know how we behave in Parliament, that is, I am a participant and a participant, so that we can bring it all together and vote on one. Therefore, I don't think we have the right to talk much about this because everything that is in charge of BiH we voted even if I am not in agreement.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11782	Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11783	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to be very brief since the predecessors brought it up a lot. I just want to trouble myself, and I don't know who to ask for answers to certain questions that would be significant in the Information, which I agree really is extremely detailed and very important for all MPs in the House of Representatives. So for the next three years, we're going to need to return close to 2 billion and 100 million KM, so to service the external debt. It's worth a little more than 300 million on interest, most of which are major. Bosnia does so on a percentage basis according to the current, if we put it this way, according to the current incomes of the Single Account Office for indirect taxation of about 5 billion, so on an annual basis, that is close to 15% of the total revenues of the IRS. I wonder if, I think, it will have a dramatic impact on budgets and entities, lower levels of government because it is not expected to increase revenue significantly in the Single Account of the Direct Taxation Authority for the next three years. Secondly, it is also a significant percentage related to coverage, hence the percentage of the share of external debt service compared to exports. In the last year, we had about 8 billion KM exports of goods and services and so far, not one year so far has been more than 4.6%, so some percentage that is tolerable and that I think one country is in a position to service external debt if that percentage does not exceed 5%. We, with this sum of 750 million, 770 million, 550 million for the next three years, will be in a situation that at least 9% does, therefore, service the external debt of BiH's total exports. I wonder, therefore, whether part of this stand-by arrangement, or...(not 90 is understood)... will the IMF be used as part of the return and, or reprogramming of BiH's external debt? Otherwise, I think we're going to be in a dramatic state and it can be questioned whether or not we're going to be able to meet our obligations in terms of service of external debt and interest on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11784	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11785	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also join the assessments that this information is extremely high-quality, giving a lot of information from which appropriate conclusions can be drawn, but I am commenting to the authors, I have also done so on the Finance and Budget Commission, that they are insufficiently engaged in analyses and conclusions as to what some indicators, individual figures, individual indicators mean. Whether they represent a positive, whether they represent a negative indicator, whether they are neutral influences, etc. In this regard, I would recommend to the authors of this information that they engage more courageously in evaluations, i.e. analyses and evaluations and conclusions of certain phenomena that reveal themselves and reveal themselves through their own information. I will say that one country with a credit rating "B3" by Moody (Moody's) or Standard end Purs "B", has no access to the capital market. And as my colleague Vrankić said mainly to me, especially in external duty, we address multilateral organisations financially and trust that we will never come to the red, above the red line in terms of duty, because our borrowing capacity is followed by the institution and they approve as many loans as we can accept and can service neatly. In this respect, the assessment, or debate on whether we are in charge or not, is quite immaterial as long as we receive loans from multilateral financial institutions such as the World Bank, such as the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the European Investment Bank and others, other multilateral financial institutions. Something I want to point out is presented in this Information as one novelty, which is that, in addition to external duty, there is also an internal responsibility of around 3.3 billion KM and that total debt, so as a sovereign debt of the country has raised some 9.9 billion and 36.9% of GDP, respectively, as measured by the income principle. It also provided information on the fact that the business sector provides a certain capital inflow in BiH with free capital market transactions primarily through banks, and it was, according to information from this information, in the third quarter of 2011, 8.4 billion KM, of which 5.7 billion are bank transfers, i.e. the withdrawal of foreign credit via banks in order to place on the domestic financial market. When the amount of capital, which is secured by the business sector, past the government's loan return obligations, BiH's total debt rises to 18.4 billion or 76% of GDP. So, these are already very serious indicators, and we need to pay attention to the movement of this business sector, because it has been proven that banks can actually increase the money mass on the market in BiH, regardless of the board's withdrawals and the principles that the board Karens advocate. This is very important, and I think that, too, when we follow our overall position with regard to duty, we must bear in mind and in the responsibility of the business sector, even though the government of the state, state, entity, cantons and so forth. They're not responsible for paying back that 91 debt. However, for the country's overall financial health, it is very important to take account of the amount of this, and of its responsibilities and therefore must be guided. I believe that we can expect, but we are also taking note of, a very large deterioration of all indicators, an indicator of our ability to, our duties and the ability to repay credits, that is what Col. Prodanović has already stated, and I think it would be good to conclude, in the context of the debate on this Information, that the Ministry of Finance, the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, first and foremost form a medium-term payment plan for external loans that will be characteristic of a very large increase in the tranche for the payment of these loans. In that sense, I think that we could also have greater security that the payments and the overall budgetary policy, which will provide money for these payments, will be more successful. And finally, I'd like to say that one question that in public causes very negative connotations refers to so-called. a commission of fi, i.e. payment obligations, payment of tight interest at a time when loans lie granted and unused. According to what I've calculated, this total commission of fi, which is otherwise an inevitable cost in all types of funding, and in business and public funding, is 0.2% in 2011, and believe that this is a very low percentage. But I suggest to the authors of this information that they try to get data on how much it is in Croatia, Serbia, Slovenia and so on, so let's see how effective or less efficient we are in this regard, and so on. I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11786	Thank you. Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11787	I thank the chairman. Well, maybe I'll just draw attention to a few things about or about this information. The information is, of course, made up correctly, indicators showing the state of general duty and so on. I just wanted to correct them, some colleagues who talked about external debt, this information is about total public debt, so public debt implies both internal and external. However, the time in which we are discussing, although of course it is about data for 2011, or times that mark such an economic situation, this problem is particularly about apostrophe of importance, in fact by putting this problem in the context of overall economic developments. We can be comforted that we are a moderately in charge of the country, as we usually do and as we are in some common indicators, but if you take the ratios or key parameters, which are very important today, such as the ratio or share of debt in the total GDP, the coverage of exports by imports, the rate of economic growth, the share of external debt, the total debt structure, or, say, the share of external debt in the total ino resources in our economy, then you will reach catastrophic indicators for a moderately indemnified economy. I just want to remind you, let's say one fact that is of particular importance to us, which is that we of the total foreign funds have the least EU funding that we have. We have a lot more money on the basis of external debt, and most of all our liabilities to the IMF, the World Bank and so on, and at least we're spending what we call a grant through IPA funds and so on. 92 What is especially relevant today, for example. are key monetary, i.e. in this context, whether and considering public debt is a key indicator in the context of both monetary and fiscal stability. When you look at BiH, we have a very stable, say monetary anchor through the board Karens mechanism itself. But what are our fiscal goals? No one has ever put fiscal goals on the agenda in this country. We deal with fiscal problems when we talk about budgets. If we are talking about fiscal issues here, it is crucial to set itself up as problematic incomes or inflows of income from the Directorate for indirect taxation, which is of course of course particularly important, but only maybe zero is a bit of a bit of a total fiscal problem that we have, where we are most vulnerable to this problem. What specifically initiated me to report for the discussion? Two things. Exactly what we are talking about was that we initiated almost a year ago and this Parliament has adopted an initiative to discuss in a comprehensive way the economic problem. Of course, an integral part of this would also be a public debt problem. And here's another suggestion to the College that, no matter who initiated it, it's an initiative that's been accepted, it's Parliament's initiative, if you're a flyer here, forget who initiated it, but put it once on the agenda and I expect it to be here, as we have initiated among other things, the least of the finance ministers, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the resolution ministers, where such discussions, such stories, suggestions, etc. We will not lead among ourselves by competing to mention which argument or show our knowledge or ignorance, but rather to really see what we do, or what this Parliament can do together with all those who are in charge of economic problems. What is the responsibility of this Parliament when it comes to borrowing issues, except, of course, what makes the Council of Ministers in this context, is, let's say, what is usually on the agenda for us under the last points of the agenda, which are ratifications. But here is, perhaps, an opportunity to mention - did this Parliament ever refuse to ratify any credit arrangement? Never. I don't even see any reason to refuse, because that credit arrangement may already be deep in implementation until we get consent to ratification and so on. Here things take place in some technical sense by some momentum, the Foreign Affairs Commission listens to some explanation, that consent, Parliament raises its hand, moves towards the Presidency and so on. And that's all our role when it comes to external debt. How do we repay that question? Who makes the decision on external debt, on the inside that we don't talk, but here we are talking about external debt? What are the priorities? Do we even have priorities? Do we have a BiH development strategy? We have an Economic Planning direkcija in charge of the task. As long as we don't get answers to these questions, it seems to me that this debate is too much and should only be prepared for the consequences, of course negative, especially about this context. And here's a chance to say in the end, don't be comforted by what our competitiveness has grown, my colleague Domazet knows it better than many in this room. Many have fallen more than BiH has fallen, as the effects of the crisis in BiH have come later than other countries. So we worse times and hard times can only expect more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11788	Thank you. Dear fellow Emir Kabil. Here you go. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11789	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As a member of the Finance and Budget Commission, however, I can truly express the satisfaction that the report, which we received the other day, was made quality, comprehensive and at best showed which direction BiH is heading. In addition to the credit debt that is really becoming a nightmare for the state and despite the trend which is certainly very questionable when it comes to the future of returning annuities on various credit lines, we realized that in the next 2-3 years we will be returning almost double the funds than it has been so far, what I care most about is that we can talk, I can't quite agree with that finding that our credit rating isn't as bad as other countries, we're at the bottom of all economic events, so if you want the projects, so we're in the cherry, in the trash, when it comes to credit ratings long ago and I don't see a chance that we'll get away with this concept. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yeah, good. Then we didn't understand each other. Why am I saying this? I only speak for one basic reason that the Western European banking system is still quite stable regardless of the euro area crisis. The interest on projects in Western Europe is between 1.6% and 2.2%. The interest on the means, as far as I know, here are the experts, not more than 1.5%. Interests in our country are at least 8 times bigger, which clearly shows that there is no trust in the banking system. When we talk about debt and when we talk about a strategy on how to reduce public debt, unfortunately BiH has so far no, absolutely no public debt strategy in BiH. All these loans we're raising today are mostly to cover our earlier debt and to go into even greater credit slavery and debt. That is why I believe, and so do we from the SBB, that one, of course, at the level of experts in this country, should be designed, one quality strategy for the development of public borrowing by at least 2020, in which a strict and clear definition of the way of borrowing, the objectives of borrowing, is very important to say and which borrowing entities and, of course, the most important purpose of borrowing. Unfortunately, in our budgets, the development component has been absolutely neglected and in no budget we see, except survival, not one indicator or indicator to invest in development, or even education, university, we don't put into development, but we put into consumption, which I think is not. Big rich countries are education, universities have a million, put into the development part of their budget. That is why we believe that the public debt strategy is one of the priorities to be launched and on this high body so that we can insist on borrowing for BiH's development. Unfortunately, it doesn't exist until now. When some donor conferences were organised recently in BiH, targets were set to raise around 500m euros in funds for specific development projects. I must disappoint you with the fact that not a quarter of your goals have been achieved. Why? Because there were no quality projects. There wasn't a single quality project. So, we are faced with a situation that enters a vicious circle through debt slavery where simply, without respecting expert teams and quality people who are able to offer quality projects, and invest in these quality projects, we cannot attract foreign investments. 94 So I think that this report that we got here today simply shows the future of this country in one of the most drastic ways. With this report, no matter what our economic experts say, BiH has no future. There is no future, because the word development and development component absolutely doesn't exist anywhere. And we're an absolutely small country and with our resources, let's say industrial, so if you want to be professional, we can't compete with the Western world. What is our basic strength and which should be the basic force in development is food and you saw today that we disagreed on the basic thing whether agriculture and food can get the place they need to get in this country. So I would ask you to make this high body, this Parliament, and we will launch certain initiatives in that direction, formulate strategic objectives and our public borrowing strategy. If we don't do it in a quality and transparent way, I'm personally afraid that the fate of our entire system is very questionable and I'd say it's... very questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11791	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to 14. Dot, Ad. 14. Commission report to the College on the effort to reach agreement on the conclusion of the 4th session of the Research Commission on the establishment of donor spending You got the report. The College, as the Commission, did not achieve agreement. Today, we will make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion in the second round. We're not having this discussion. We're going to point 15, Ad. 15. Consideration of the extension of the mandate to BHRT Management Board members, BHRT Management Board material
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11795	Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry, he didn't react the key. There is no chairman-in-Office of the Commission for Transport and Communications, Mr Kunić, so as a member of the Commission, I would like to add a few sentences concerning our meeting this morning and this decision and a proposal for conclusions before the Parliamentary Assembly. Therefore, it is known that this situation with the extension of the mandate of BHRT's board of directors takes too long, almost two years. There are also known reasons why the Commission has extended this mandate several times. The conclusions of the Parliamentary Assembly are also known. What the Commission has indicated today in its conclusion and the proposal that we have referred to the Parliamentary Assembly, there is one piece of information that I think we should share, which is that, the Commission has found, therefore, that the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications launched a repeat competition in 10.07.2012 for the selection of BHRT Management Board members from the Serbian and Croatian peoples. The competition is closed and its realization should follow in the next 30 to hope for a maximum of 60 days. This was the basic parameter for which the Commission today decided to extend its mandate to the members of the Management Board for the next 90 days, and we were also motivated today in the procedure of the Law amending and supplementing the Law which was sent by the Council of Ministers, which should in a certain way lead to the relief of procedures at the Regulatory Agency and lead to the end of this inadmissible debt and non-productive situation that the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH has with members of the BHRT Management Board. What I ask you to also perceive, dear colleagues, is that the Commission has unanimously concluded that, after the end of that period, the term of office of members of the Board of Directors of BHRT is not extended. We therefore hope that this will also be an incentive to the fastest and more productive Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act that will solve this problem and also lead us to a more serious position and members of the Governing Board and members of the BiH Regulatory Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11796	Thank you. No more reports with or without mistakes, no more. I'm closing the debate. We are moving to the 16th item of the agenda, but before that, I ask that the House declare itself that the debate between the 16th and 24th points of the agenda be united. 96 Prepare to vote. You can vote now. For 26, there were no abstentions or abstentions. I find that we have united the debate on points 16 to 24 of the agenda. Ad.16. - 24. Granting consent The opinion of the committee responsible for external affairs on approval for ratification has been given to you. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Is it enough at 6:45 to meet me here at the vote? At 6:45. Thank you. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11799	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11800	So, fellow Ismet, did you withdraw and propose to go into regular procedure?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11801	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11802	Thank you. Moving to point 5. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Movement and stay of Foreigners and Asylum – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 33, there were no abstentions. I realize we passed this law in a second reading. Point 6. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Ministrys and Other Authorities of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the second reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 34, no offenses or abstentions. I realize we passed this law in a second reading. Moving to point 7. – Proposal for a law on associations of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 24, against 10, there were no abstentions. Without enough support from the RS. There's no member of the Kolegijum, and we'll get along later. Moving to point 8. – Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions – Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. 98 Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 24, v. 9, abstention 1. I find that the entity majority is sufficient and that this law is adopted in the first reading. Point 9. – Proposal for a law on free legal aid – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 24, against 10, there were no abstentions. Insufficient entity support. It's an ex post adjustment. Home will be notified. We move to the 10th point – The Annual Report on Traffic of Strategic Goods for 2008, 2009 and 2010, material of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH. We are voting on the adoption of reports with the opinions of the Commission and the conclusion proposed in them. Is there any need for me to read the conclusion? [[Common discussion]] Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 32, it wasn't against, abstention 2. I konstatovati we've adopted the report at the conclusion. Moving to point 11. – Report from the field of agriculture for Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, material from the Council of Ministers of BiH.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11804	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11805	The Honorable President of the Club of the SNSD business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11806	Well, to separate the vote, we ask the conclusions individually, and the report separately. They have four conclusions, each of them. Oh, my God.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11807	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11808	Thank you. Who's got the intervention? 99
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11809	I do. I withdraw the proposal for a conclusion related to point 11 and...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11810	Thank you. We vote on the report with the Commission's opinion first, and then we will vote on the conclusions individually. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 31, it wasn't against, abstention 2. I konstatovati we've adopted the report with the Commission's opinion. Now we're voting on conclusions, and we're voting on that conclusion number one. Is there any need for me to read it? /Common Discussion The conclusion is... _________(?) [[You don't understand.]] [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11814	Report with complete documentation, as the chairman only told the Report to be delivered and the documentation if requested.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11815	Exactly. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, the report says that if the D.A.'s office asks, they'll get the report and the paperwork. I said we should write that we should forward to the D.A.'s office the adopted report of our commission, and if he asks for documentation to be delivered to him. Do you think that's right? Does anyone have a problem with that? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11821	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-09-06-0.u11822	You don't have to. Okay. We vote on points 16 to 24. – Giving consent to the retrieval of the agreement. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now. For 34, there were no abstentions. I find that we have agreed to ratify the agreement from points 16 to 24. Dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your cooperation and patience. I wish you all the best in the election campaign. According to the schedule, we don't intend to have a session until the 23rd, which doesn't mean there won't be any. Session completed at 7:10 p.m.
