ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1647	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable colleagues and fellow envoys, present representatives of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen of Ministers, representatives of the international community, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 19th session of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. There are 15 envoys present. For the 19th session, I propose the following Agenda 1. Answers to envoys' questions and new envoys' questions; 2. Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1/12 of 11/01.2012; 3. Report from the Commission of the College on Efforts to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Law on the financing of the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, Law No: 01,02-02-1-28/11 of 29.12.2011; 4. Report from the College Committee on Efforts to reach agreement on Amendment Law Proposals and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading), Proposer: Parliamentary House of BiH, Material No: 02-02-1-12 of 28.05.2012; 5. Report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the preparation of amendments and additions to the Election Act, the Law on the financing of political parties and the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions, material No: 01,02-50-14-30-17/12 of 06.06.2012; 6. Information on implementation of the Transition Strategy from analogue to digital earth broadcasting in frequency range 174-230 MHz and 470-862 MHz in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry of Communications and Transport material of BiH, issue: 02-29-681/12 out of 30. 5. 2012; 7. Giving consent to the ratification of the Debt Conversion Agreement concluded between KfW, Frankfurt in Main (KfW) and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury (loan), as well as the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Federal Ministry of Finance, and Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance (RS), for 2 12.821.343,85 euros – Debt conversion 3, material of the BiH Presidency No: 01.02-05-2-749/12 of 22. Six. In 2012. 8. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Credit between Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury and Raiffeisen Bank International AG – Project Modernisation of the University of Banja Luka, material of the BiH Presidency No: 01.02-05-2-894/12 of 10.07.2012; 9. Giving consent to the ratification of the Arrangement between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Government of the Republic of Korea concerning the loan from the Economic Development Co-operation Fund for Phase III of the Hospital Modernisation Project, material of the BiH Presidency No: 01,02-05-2-919/12 of 17.07.2012; 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Loan Agreement – Phase III of the Modernisation of Hospitals in Bosnia and Herzegovina – between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republika Srpska and the Export-Importing Bank of Korea (Government of the EDCF Agency), material of the BiH Presidency No: 01,02-05-2-920/12 of 17.07.2012. It is ten points of the agenda agreed by the College of the House of Peoples. I'm opening a debate on the agenda. Here you go. A colleague named Bradarić answered the words. There you go, buddy Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1648	... once again a good day, we had a different agenda yesterday according to this new one are points 2, 4 and 5. So, that is – Confirming the Council of Ministers' decision, and points 4 and 5 are amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties and conflict of interest. I understand that there are justifiable reasons for removing this 4th and 5th points, because today in the House of Representatives we have a different form of these laws, we have proposals there and, of course, it would be very difficult to bring these proposals into line. But I don't understand why this point 2 is. Confirming the BiH Council of Ministers' decision to replace the BiH Security Minister, BiH Defence Minister and Deputy Finance Minister and the BiH Treasury removed from the agenda. And here I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that this point 2 be kept on the agenda today and I ask the House of Peoples to declare my request.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1649	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. So you're proposing that the agenda of today's session be added to the point of point 2 of the previous agenda. Thank you very much. A fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1650	I thank the chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the media representatives of the three Bosniak delegates Halid Genjac, Sulejman Tihić and Nermina Kapetanović on the basis of Article 161. The Rules of Procedure of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH state the "Official Messenger", I declare the proposal for a decision to include in the 3rd agenda of the House of Peoples a confirmation of the Council of Ministers' Decision on the replacement of the Ministers of Security, Defence Ministers and Deputy Ministers of Finance and Treasury of BiH, which is harmful to the vital interest of BiH, i.e. the Bosniak people. Explanation: According to Article 6(1) The Council of Ministers Act with the above-mentioned official messengers of BiH, Article 6(1) reads – The overall composition of the Council of Ministers will be fully in line with the Constitution of BiH, particularly its Article 5.4b) and 9.3. According to Article 10(2), The law on the Council of Ministers, ministers and deputy ministers enters office immediately after confirmation by the House of Representatives. In accordance with Article 12(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Council of Ministers Act, if the chairman of the Council of Ministers resigns or is permanently prevented from doing his duty, the Council of Ministers shall resign as a whole and shall carry out its duties until the approval of the new chairman and members of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, according to the cited provisions of the Council of Ministers Act, based on the above-mentioned members of the BiH Constitution, it is unequivocal that the composition of the Council of Ministers is ethnically defined in such a way that the equal representation of the constituent peoples of BiH must be ensured during the entire term of office. When the entire Council of Ministers is replaced, the Council of Ministers shall carry out its duty to confirm the new chairman and members of the Council of Ministers. When the deputy minister and deputy minister are replaced, the term of office shall cease and the post shall remain vacant until the appointment of the new minister, i.e. Deputy Minister. The chairman of the Council of Ministers launched a procedure for replacing BiH Security Ministers, BiH Defence Ministers and Deputy Finance and Treasury Ministers of BiH by means of his Decision. Ministers and deputy minister whose shift is proposed are all Bošnjak. The appointment of the existing Council of Ministers' composition mainly because of various political parties' blackmails took place on 10 February 2012, i.e. 16 months after the announcement of election results and after reaching an agreement on the party and ethnic division of ministerial positions. It is well known when the security minister was removed in the previous term, also from the Bosniak people's ranks and when it was filled with the appointment of a new minister only after nearly 5 months. The change was made on July 17th, the appointment was made on November 24th. The reasons why the Council of Ministers has been in incomplete composition for so long at the expense of the Bosniak people are the blackmails of SNSD and SDS then, identical to the blackmails that are now unequivocally announced. Namely, the leaders of these parties unequivocally announced the conditions for replacing possibly replaced ministers with other appointments, the RAC director, the management position in the Directorate for indirect taxation, the ministerial post in the Federation Government and so on. The completion of possibly vacant ministerial posts on an agreement of uncontested Bosniak positions is conditioned by other appointments in favour of SNSD and SDS parties. The procedure for these other appointments is known to take months, it is important to note that without the consent of SNSD and SDS parties, it is not possible to appoint ministers. The above facts suggest that possibly empty Bosniak ministerial positions would not be filled in for a long time. We believe that the proposed Council of Ministers' decision on the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers can be placed on the agenda of the House of People's session only after the previous issues have been resolved and thus ensure that the possible replacement of ministers and deputy ministers will not cause damage to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. 4 This means, on the agenda of the proposal for a decision on the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers, it is necessary for the chairman of the Council of Ministers to explain his proposal, the reasons for the shift in importance to determine the further procedure. If it were a personal replacement of ministers, the same parliamentary majority remains and the chairman of the Council of Ministers could continue his mandate with the legislation given to him by the parliamentary majority. Given that the shifts are proposed due to a change in the composition of the parliamentary majority, the chairman of the Council of Ministers cannot continue his mandate. Namely, the current chairman and the entire composition of the Council of Ministers cannot continue with the mandate won with the support of a political party that is not in the new parliamentary majority. It is legitimate to change the parliamentary majority, but the new parliamentary majority should also be legitimised by a new council of ministers and a new chairman who may be in the same person. This means that the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers is to resign to some other parliamentary majority, a common practice in developed democracies, which is more doubtless and political parties in the new parliamentary majority. The additional reason for the resignation of the chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers is that this would address the issue of changing the composition of the Council of Ministers without damage to the vital interest of any people. In this case, the Council of Ministers would continue to work fully until the appointment of the new Council of Ministers, and all constituent nations and others would maintain a level playing field both in the current Council of Ministers and in the talks on the appointment of a new composition of the Council of Ministers. Two, also in the agenda of the House of Peoples's Proposal for a Decision on the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers who are all from the Bosniak people, must be clearly clarified and resolved on the condition of the appointment of new ministers, i.e. replacements. Otherwise, as already happened with the Minister of Security, the appointment of new ministers will be postponed by blackmail and thus maintain the incomplete composition of the Council of Ministers at the expense of the Bosniak people. It is obvious, then, that the inclusion of this point in the agenda of the House of Nations' session before resolving those issues would be harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. That example, the presence of blackmail and conditionality, political and interethnic disagreements regarding the appointments otherwise present in BiH, suggests that the long-standing failure of the Council of Ministers to harm the Bosniak people would arise following the possible confirmation of the proposed shifts. This means that on existing occasions, without the prior resolution of the above-mentioned issues, the two ministers and one deputy minister, all Bošnjak, would produce a violation of the Constitution and the law of the Bosniak people's guaranteed right to be represented in the Council of Ministers as well as other two constituent peoples throughout the term of office. Under the cited provisions of the Council of Ministers' Law, the appointment of ministers and deputy ministers confirms only the House of Representatives, and the decision to replace ministers and deputy ministers confirms both the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives. This role was given to the House of Peoples, among other things, to ensure the protection of the rights of each nation to equal representation in the Council of Ministers throughout the term of office. The right to the Constitution and the law guaranteed representation in the executive government is a matter of vital interest to every constituent nation. Those reasons fully justify the declaration of the proposed Decision in the agenda of the House of Peoples's session, the Decision on the replacement of ministers and deputies of ministers harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people and confirm the necessity to vote on this decision in accordance with Article 161(2). Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I would like to remind you that when a proposed decision is made, most of the delegates from one nation declare a harmful vital interest in this decision to be voted in accordance with Article 161(2), which reads – such 5 of the proposed decisions in the House require the consent of most Bosniak, majority of Croatian and most Serbian delegates present and voting. I would also like to remind you that on this issue, further procedures have been regulated in the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of Article 162 which reads, Article 162 of the attempt to resolve on the Joint Commission or to refer to the Constitutional Court. Article 1 – In the event of opposition from most Bosniak, Croatian or Serbian delegates by calling for Article 161. The Rules of Procedure, the chairman of the House, convenes a joint committee composed of three delegates, one of whom was elected by Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian delegates to resolve the issue. Article 2 – If the Joint Commission fails to resolve the issue within 5 days, the case shall be referred to the Constitutional Court of BiH, who will examine the procedural correctness of the procedure as a matter of urgency. On July 19th, Sarajevo was signed by those Bosniak delegates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1651	Thank you, Genjac. Do we have any other reports on, colleague Krstan Simić, a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1652	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm a little confused, and I have to admit that I didn't even understand part of Mr. Genjac's exposure when he said that what's going on, that it was some kind of SNSD blackmail, so they added SDS. The simple position of the SNSD on BiH level is that these issues that are being addressed in the Federation, that these are issues, that any solution from the Federation for us is acceptable, therefore this one insinuation that behind this, I say, is behind this problematic situation in which we are not only about the election or replacement of ministers, deputy ministers and procedures and at other levels of government is not the SNSD, but one crisis that is caused by the SDS's behaviour in relation to this SDA in relation to the budget. It's a habit when I've always attacked the SDS, and I can't stop it, but we'll do it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1653	Thank you, fellow Simić. My Kolega Bradarić, his injury to the Rules of Procedure, his colleague Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1654	Yes, a brief comment, I must admit that I didn't understand much as my colleague, I don't understand how vital interest can be defended, national interest because three Bošnjak will come out of the Council of Ministers and three Bošnjak will enter. Or after that from the executive and legislative and etc. Go to the Bošnjak squad, and the Bošnjak squad will come. 6 Vital national interest can be defended in other ways and so far could be defended through many institutions where the Bošnjak are neglected, here are only two institutions that are the Return Fund and BH MAK, in BH MAK of 190 and some people doing the one, 112 Srbin and let it be, and we never, that question, we should look at it as a whole, so in all those 70 institutions and eventually the scale will be made. Bošnjak are defended by employment, but every year employees are becoming less and less employed, Bošnjak defend themselves by revising privatisation that is the way it is produced by many wealthy people who are members of the SDA, biti Gejc would envy their wealth. The Bošnjak defend themselves with investments, here happens to be going to Corridor Vc so no one has the exclusive right to defend the Bošnjak today, in mine, so the name has no one's right to do it, I know what I am and what a Bošnjak I am, these are things that are kept out of love and don't tell anyone. Unfortunately, many people today have a trade, a job to say how big it is, and then it can do whatever it wants. This is a completely legitimate request, a legitimate SDP request, it wasn't easy and others were trying to do all this before SDP, but in some assessment they were wrong, so ultimately it didn't happen, they didn't succeed. So we continue, here we could talk about it to the diary tonight, but I have no intention, we remain at our request, or supplementing the agenda. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1655	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. He's a colleague of Ivanic's.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1656	Well, like someone who
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1657	We're on the agenda, just to remind ourselves.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1658	Well, I want to discuss this point right now, and that is my content. I can understand this initiative on one condition, that means that if all ministers left their posts at the same time, and no one was appointed. But since I was the subject of a similar move by the SDA in my time, I know that there was then an interpretation that the minister was staying in place until the appointment of a new one. And that such an interpretation of the OHR has and I remember in my time that it was an interpretation which was given and that for that reason the chairman was not, because he had no majority, was unable to appoint, but I remained a minister. Furthermore, according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Council of Ministers, none of the decisions ending at the Council of Ministers can be made unless at least one representative from that people participates in it. I don't think it's possible then either. I'm trying to say that it seems to me that the explanation is a little hollow, if I may say so. It seems logical under this condition, if this were to really be, it means that if all the ministers of the Bosniak people and all the deputies and no one else were to be, I really think that, and then that because of the problem in the 7th appointment of the new so it could stay forever, you're right, if that's true you're right. But if it wasn't, and I don't think it was, I think the initiative itself is wrong, and I think it would be good to have it made clear to us, that we just know when we're dealing with this in some way so that we can know what it is, I would never do anything to, that no representatives of the Bosniak people in the Council of Ministers have any, I really think it would be an unnecessary and unprecedented blow. But from all the interpretations I know and for me, this is a whole new interpretation, uh, that ministers stay until they arrive, it's not a new appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1659	Thank you, colleague Ivanic. We will not be dealing with the clarifications of the Rules of Procedure yet, but this session will certainly serve to teach him well all together. A fellow Košarac player.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1660	The chairman, members of the Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to welcome you once again and to draw attention once again to the fact that emotions are working today and that today some will obviously try to take part of the emotion to the BiH Parliament and emotionally convey certain messages to the general public in BiH. It is very important here to jointly establish that it is necessary for the BiH institutions to function, that today we have a new form of patriotism expressed in BiH that can not be measured in this way either. We have initiatives that speak of the protection of the vital national interest of one nation in BiH, and that none of these talks that were being held on the change of the Council of Ministers said they wanted to compromise the national structure of the Council of Ministers. I'm afraid with the great presence of emotion we're sending a message, especially you gentlemen from the SDA that Mehmed Bradarić is not a Bošnjak because he is a member of the SDP. That's not good, I don't think any of the political factors in this country have gone with the goal of not having Bošnjak in the Council of Ministers, on the contrary. Once again, we want to say that the problem lies in the Federation of BiH, and I must say that we are not liquefied in the RS and we are not looking forward to the problem in the Federation of BiH, but rather want to make a constructive contribution to resolving this problem. Therefore, I ask you, we do not need to worry too much about each other, I will only tell you once again, that SNSD is leading a clear and responsible national policy of the Serb people in BiH, that SNSD is leading a clear policy of Serbia without jeopardising anyone's interests in BiH. Therefore, our legitimate right to insist that certain positions at lower levels of government at BiH level be filled in as it belongs to the Serbian people and that it belongs to representatives of Serbia in BiH. And I do not see the need now to try to transfer the field of responsibility to some other political entities in BiH when the problem is gentlemen right now, once again I want to say and disagree with Mr Raguž, is the problem above all the Federation and later BiH. I would like to just say one more time, that we believe and that in these structures the division of the authorities at lower levels took part the leaders. I Podsjetić you that your leader has also participated in this further distribution of the place to which the political party belongs. I don't think it's good and in good interest to replicate to your president, because he just participated in what will belong to the SDA, what 8 will belong to the SDP, what will belong to the HDZ, what will to SNSD, the SDP after all, is the agreed political agreement between the leaders in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1661	Thanks, Košarac. Correction of the wrong quote, colleague Raguž.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1662	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to say that it's too simple to keep saying that the problem in the Federation is, even on this occasion. So here we have a decision from the chairman of the Council of Ministers who has been elected and confirmed by the House of Representatives and with the consent of the parties from both entities. We have again a decision on the resolution of the Council of Ministers' part which has been confirmed in the House of Representatives and has nothing to do with any institution or body or body or body of the Federation. So in that sense, I want and this is the main problem of BiH, if that is the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1663	Thank you. I'm a colleague of the Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1664	Dear delegates to the House of Peoples, members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, since the debate has opened, I want to say a few sentences on the agenda. First of all, what is harmful to the vital interest of which the people, it is decided by the majority in that people, and I would ask the real representatives of both the Serbian and the Croatian people not to tell us what our vital interest is, because I wouldn't be telling them these things and whether they have reasons or have no reason. The constitution makes it clear that three delegates if they assess that something harmful is the vital interest of this people, that the procedure is stopped and that this proposal is submitted to the BiH Constitutional Court for decision. Whether that request is permitted, whether it is justified, it is justified only by the Constitutional Court to say so. And I'd like to ask that at least we don't pollute about those two things. However, since Mr. Bradarić spoke of defending Bošnjak, at least we from the SDA don't need to be told because we know well throughout this period how it is done, normally throughout the BiH territory, and not only there in those parts where the Bošnjak are the majority. We've always taken care of it and normally defend each other and fight crime, you know, this one defends against the set up tenders in Telekom and defends against the settled tenders in the highways and defends itself against the 11 billion protocol that ends there somewhere with some phantom firm in Germany, which has a founding role of 30,000 marks and so on. and defend among other things 9 against the solution as it is, what is the solution in the case of Sejdic-Sejdić-Finci, and what is proposed by this SDP and so on. Now let's not get into all those affairs that were and this, how they were suspended and stopped this one, and we defend ourselves and against it you know. Mr Ivanic, I would just like to remind him that the difference between the proposal of the then chairman-in-Office of the House and the current situation is great. You remember well, all of you, when Tarik Sadović was resolved as Minister of Security and confirmed at the House of Peoples, that Mr Krešić, as deputy and under the law, acted as minister. Now it can happen, what we're suggesting, that when the three Bošnjak change, that the deputies will act that way, and we have a clear attitude, I don't know the SDS, and I think the SNSD, I apologize if there's no SNSD, that they won't vote for the new Council of Ministers, until they meet, I don't know, the two conditions, later there will be a third, a fourth, etc. We remember well when Tarik Sadović was resolved, they couldn't convince the chairman, then Špirić, to propose Sadik Ahmetović. We lost five months. There's always something going on. And you asked for something extra. Here it is publicly said that you will not be appointed to the Council of Ministers and that the Bošnjak will not be represented in the Council of Ministers. How long, I don't know. As much as there will be such blackmails, they have already been announced. And really when we talk about the right to represent the vital interest of some people, I think the SDA has a lot of rights and by election legitimacy at the Bosniak Club in the Federation, of 17, nine are from the SDA. At the Bosniaks' Club of the BiH Parliament, there are three from the SDA. And whatever this is, this is on the desire not to involve any other parties in the creation of the Federation, etc. I would ask them to bear in mind this fact, however, that in a certain way they have their share of responsibility not in that capacity, not so intensely, as it is trying to do by other Federation parties. Therefore, I ask that what is under the Constitution, which is under the law, that this issue of the draft agenda, namely our declaration that it is to the detriment of the Bosniak vital interest, to act in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to form this commission as planned, this one in front of the Bošnjak, is likely to determine this club, and that the Hrvat and Srbin clubs do the same. And here's one well-intentioned message, to all those who want to throw the SDA out of power. Please, let's take one democracy method. We are calling for democracy. Mr. Bevanda has been elected chairman, among other things, against his competences and what he is and what his reputation is. But the basis was a political agreement in which the SDA and I personally contributed, you know, where we agreed to some compromises on the Ministry of Finance, because the SDP insisted on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, the agreement was the basis for our member of the psredsjedništvo, Bakir Izetbegović, to vote to give the mandate to Mr Bevanda. Based on that and the agreement, our MPs, seven MPs voted not only for Mr Bevanda, but also for other ministers and ministers from the SDA or not, from the SNSD, from the SDS, HDZ. It can only be resolved on the proposal proposed by the party and not on the SDP proposal. Normally, SDA ministers can also be resolved because they are not doing well, but it is not written. They can be resolved for forming a new parliamentary majority. Now, since the new parliamentary majority is, I invite you all, sooner you finish this job, so that 10 Mr Bevanda resigns, get a new mandate, get support in the Zatupni dom and have both Bošnjak and Srbin and Hrvat elected at the same time. And someone in the order of the others, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1665	Thank you, colleague Tihić. Comrade Genjac, are you staying at correcting the wrong quote? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1666	Thank you. I think it is unusually important that the content of the appeal, i.e. the content of a statement of harmfulness in the vital interest of the Bosniak people, be read only in a way to read what it says and nothing more. Please, at no time do we claim that it is someone's intention to leave the Council of Ministers without Bosniak ministers, we do not claim at any time. But we argue that the shift of Bosniak ministers, one number, will create a period of unfulfilled Council of Ministers, to the detriment of the Bosniak people, for reasons not again because we are insinuating and not wanting it, but based on the evidence that unequivocal blackmail has been announced, replacing these ministers with other appointments. And I respect that, but it's already happened, it happened with the Minister of Security. That's the practice we had. Therefore, the Bosniak interest can indeed be defended by any national interest, in the category of ways that exceed the possibilities of today's listing. But Bosniak interests, among other things, defends and in a way to warn about the possible situation of the Council of Ministers, which we are talking about. And the signing of such a statement by three delegates from the Bosniak people means only that it has been done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure which establishes this possibility and nothing more. And no one's been declared any less Bošnjak or anyone can. And the next thing, it was, therefore, the Rules of Procedure didn't predict that someone would call this initiative hollow, but he predicted that clubs might not agree that it was founded and contained, but he also predicted what was going on in that case. The very clear Rules of Procedure say, it is called a committee that is trying to solve the problem, if the clubs disagree, if the commission solves the problem, the case goes to the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure provided for a full procedure and predicted that we might not agree to assess whether this is harmful by vital interest or not and provided for who should handle it. And so I ask you, let's do the Rules of Procedure and really not add anything more to this content than what really exists inside.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1667	Thank you, fellow Genjac. I'm sure we'll follow the Rules of Procedure, but I'm the only one who doesn't understand what was here to correct the wrong assumption, but it doesn't matter now. A fellow Bradarić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1668	In the lands of the monarchy, you know exactly who and how and when you can, how you can rule forever. This is not a monarchy, this is a democratic country, and it is a narrowly legitimate SDP request. You've also violated your colleague Tihić's agreement, your sort of agreement, that whoever doesn't, will not vote for one of the most important documents called the budget, that he must go in opposition for some kind of momentum. But I'm responding to what you said, alleged crime in the highways, I don't know about the Elektroprivreds, etc., I'm here through the Commission, and I'm asking you to really ask the Minister of Security to lead the procedure, to find those who are doing it, just that someone is my closest and that they are all my party colleagues, but here I'm asking you to carry out the procedure, but I'm sure it will go hard, because the minister himself said that in his agencies, the directorates and so on. Most, employees mean there, most corrupt. That's a statement he made at the last session of the House of Representatives, all the media reported. I won't be opening a gig here as much as who did or who did... but we can name negative examples every day. Well, there's terminals yesterday, so I don't know about five years from now, five miles from the highway, so... trains, bought, unpaid, etc. etc., privatisation, Granit, Krivaja, Konjuh etc. etc. So I think this story can be, there's really no harm to any vital national Bosniak interest here, and I think this story can be done in a very simple and rational way. I say that I am truly sorry that this happened, I regret really, because somehow the government worked, but there were agreements between the leaders who had been broken. Always most 5:1 is very clear, it is a very clear result in football.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1669	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. Comrade Tadić, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1670	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Well, here I think there's really a debate on the agenda, but I can see that on one side there's a fear that we're not even going to get to the metrics at all, so that's now used for this story. On the other hand, I'm thinking Staš, Krstan, you're trying to convince the Mladen free, I mean, that's right, they know it's not, but here's what we're going to do now. I would like to be here for my pure conscience, so that tomorrow no one would declare me the enemy of any nation, because I am not, to explain my position, and if I were to suggest that this House of People be made known by a conclusion of the interpretation of this Rules of Procedure in this segment, in order to get out of the legal blind street, which clearly represents different forms of interpretation. So I get the impression that the SDA felt that it was in a rather interesting and nice position, that everyone expects what you're going to do. Well, if she'd thought more about how to surprise us than how to handle this to the end and how to do it, is that it? Yes, you surprised us, no one was hoping for this. Here on my behalf, I'm telling you, so that you challenged the decision ok, I mean you go into it, you have the right to do it, nothing controversial, but to dispute the motion to change the agenda, and speaking about that decision in 12 metres in terms of entering into the content of the decision itself, so here you have come to the contradiction yourself. Well, that's all right, I don't mind it, just don't go to anyone else's address problem. SDS has nothing to do with it. They don't have any other parties from the RS either. That's what I'm responsible for. If we've ever blocked anything somewhere, then let's say you blocked it then and then, and there's no one to tell us anything. On the other hand, there could be a lot of talk about why the director of Regulatory Gettys for years, a man who's been funny more and the state and institutions, and everything's funny to him, watching as no one can change him. And it's known that it's not at the expense of the SDS in terms of blocking the mandate of someone who would, a man who would be a regular director, but here I won't call anyone, you know who it's about. It's me getting back to the Rules of Procedure. He says like this, Article 161(1). – Declaration of a decision harmful to the vital interest. Some proposed decision by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly can be declared harmful by the vital interest of the Croatian, Bosniak and Serb people, by majority of votes, Croatian, Bosniak or Serb envoys. The decision to amend the agenda is presented here as a decision to treat the vital national interest and that is the interpretation of the SDA, part of the Bosniak Club. In Article 143 of this Poslovik, it stands like this – the House can make declarations, decisions, recommendations, conclusions and other acts. In this case, amending the Rules of Procedure is neither declaration nor decision nor recommendation nor conclusion nor other act nor law nor constitutional matter. The amendment of the Rules of Procedure concerns a member of 59, in which he says – At the beginning of the session, each envoy, as well as any delegate, as well as any authorised promoter, shall have the right to request the suspension of any optional point and to propose a new one. That's, say, one element. The second element, the delegate can't know, speak beyond ten minutes, three minutes, and we've been breaking it here if so, all with some tolerance. If no amendments to the agenda have been proposed, Article 60 shall be deemed adopted. If the proposed amendments to the agenda and after the delegates have expressed their opinion on this proposal, the House shall vote on any proposed amendment. This is a procedure that doesn't have a break, no breaks. Everything you've said, I agree, but within the agenda. No problem at all about that. And I ask you, for this reason, to interpret the right to do any political action, at least in the House of Peoples, to keep it in the domain of your interests, not just today, but perhaps in a year and for two and five, under some different circumstances. To the RS, the Serbian people, it might be the most appropriate thing now to do this in this direction, to make a precedent, as a model, as we can sometimes create some problems, etc. But here's what we're showing you is that we want one regular procedure, how much and when a goal is thrown into the goal, to hit the goal, the supposed defenders of the state, we don't use it, if it's the opposite of the Constitution and if it's the opposite of the Poslovnk of Procedure or any law. We just want to be well-intentioned, and in that sense, we certainly are not the address for any accusation, because of any problem. This could go to the Constitutional Court and I'm very interested in how the Constitutional Court will interpret the provision of the Constitution that needs to protect, which says that change is allowed, the vote of no confidence to some ministers from any people that they are. And if it wasn't for any automatism of the replacement, that 13 would be achieved by what's being said. So, I'd like to, here's what, after course, the decision on the metrics, on vital interest, and to come to that Constitutional Court and I'm very interested in how it's going to be interpreted. And I'm asking you one more thing, so the crisis is big enough in the places Staša was talking about, that it's correct not to spread that fire any further. I hope that the correct relationship of the parties from the RS that we have shown so far should still be appreciated here and not condemned, nor possibly find us guilty, for anything, because here if there is any concrete guilt, I will take it on my own, you do not have to put it on the back of the Serbian people or any party or RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1671	Thank you, colleague Tadić. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Tihić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1672	Well, you see, when I was discussing, I said two things. I hope there's no overruns here. It's the first question whether it's harmful to the vital interest of a nation or not. Three delegates decide that. The second thing, is any request allowed, whether it is established, it can only be decided by the Constitutional Court. What Mr. Tadić is proposing, along with this persuasion that he is not against Bošnjak etc. And what he suggests, in some ways, leads to doubt, uh, what he suggests is that now the dom gives the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and that provision, which is prescribed by the Constitution. Well, this House can't give an interpretation of the Constitution. Look, compare that provision with the Constitution, and you will see that it is a provision of the BiH Constitution that was introduced directly into the Rules of Procedure. Now someone here needs to give an interpretation of that provision. Only the Constitutional Court can tell if this request is permitted or not. And you can't really know each other, and you can't get rid of the responsibility for this, Mr. Tadić, you know. Our ministers, our MPs also voted for your ministers. And we are the ones who have that legitimacy in both the Federation and the state level. And besides, you know all the stories that have been on both sides of both Croatian and Serbian, about legitimate representatives. And legitimacy is proven through the clubs of the people in the entity and at the state level. And now you're just saying, here's the Federation thing. Well, it is, part of it is, but if we're going to look at it in the long run, if we're going to look at the situation at another time when this way we can find ministers from other peoples, what we're doing today, it's going to be a precedent for future cases. Less Bošnjak will be able to use this right. And we thought we'd never use it, we didn't think there were so many irresponsible people who could go along with it. I think it was even introduced, that provision was more introduced because of that people who do not have a majority or mechanisms in the House of Representatives, to stop their ministers from being expelled. So I don't think we can, we can't work, we can't talk, we can't vote on a conclusion that would give an interpretation of this Rules of Procedure. We will not accept it because it is an interpretation then of the BiH Constitution. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1673	Thank you, colleague Tihić. A colleague, Ognjen Tadić, correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1674	We've been here for over a year. I, without any burden of conscience, invite any of the delegates, any of the people watching what we are doing, to find one single sentence, in what I have spoken or done, during this term, and that it is at the expense of any nation or that it is inspired by any nationalist rhetoric, politics or interests, anyone. If you find that, I'm ready to answer in every place, in every way. The way the Council of Ministers is drawn up is a completely different procedure than what we're talking about today and in order to even discuss it, we need to get to that point of the agenda. You, at this point in the agenda, is not yet on the agenda, this is a draft agenda, we are only discussing what we are going to discuss today. To be honest, apart from the need to somehow impress the other political party's interest in the public, it's not clear to me why it's a blockade now, why it's not at that point in the agenda. I mean, here's an explanation. I'll vote for what you're talking about. If you explain to me what you've now included vital national interest, when it doesn't belong, and you won't when it's in its place and it's a realistic explanation, argumentarily, here I promise you a voice. The 160th member of the Rules of Procedure – the Kolegijum decides when it is necessary to interpret this Rules of Procedure, until the House decides otherwise, the conclusion or amendments to the Rules of Procedure. So, the College decides in terms of holding a session and running its process, and the House can at any moment say, in the way that it is done, this is different as regards the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. No Niko has ever slowed it down or will dispute it. And here, let's talk about everything you listed as a topic, but let's talk about when it's time. The place is, time isn't. And to move from trying to impress the public's inventiveness into a real political topic that is certainly inevitable now or ever.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1675	Thank you, colleague Tadić. A Kolega Simić, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1676	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Of course, I have no idea that I'm contesting the right of three delegates in any order to launch an initiative, in accordance with Articles 161 and 162. Rules of Procedure, that's not questionable. However, here is the basic problem of hurting the Rules of Procedure, in order for this to happen, we must have, and Mr Tadić spoke of it, that point on the agenda. We're discussing something at this moment in this House's session, no. 15 Therefore, this item should be placed on the agenda already in the College. If we are not at the College, to decide on Mr Bradarić's proposal and if this point is placed on the agenda as a regular point, I do not see anything controversial, that what we have already spent an hour is subject to our debate and conduct in the Rules of Procedure. But to discuss an injury to a proposal that has not become a part at all, an integral part of today's session, I really think it's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1677	Thank you, fellow Simić. A fellow Genjac, a correction of the wrong quote. Next time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1678	So to Mr. Tadić, let me say, the syntagma of inventivity to charm the public, I think there's room in some other circumstances. Using business provisions is the legitimate right of every delegate, in this case most of the delegates from one club. The question is, why did you commit to the blockade now instead of when it was time, so the constitutional mechanism and the business mechanism call it a blockade, I don't think it's okay. The SDA has never blocked, it has always based its activities on the Rules of Procedure, the Constitution and the law, so it does now and I think we're clear here. Why did we make the argument? Well, of course, they've made an argument, to show why this point can't be placed on the agenda at this point. Why no assumptions are provided to include that item in the agenda. Someone may feel that this question is not subject to the assessment of the damage of vital interest and is legitimately entitled to consider it. But the three of us, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, are legitimately legitimate that on behalf of the Bosniaks Club, we believe that it is harmful to the vital interest, we have said and declared that it is harmful to the vital interest. And that's where every story stops. There is the application of other provisions of the Rules of Procedure which follow the procedure. Please, let's do this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1679	Thank you. Of course, that's what we're gonna do, don't worry. I hope that today we are armed with patience, one collegiate relationship here. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we can have it by midnight. Mrs. Krišto, colleague Krišto, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1680	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, deputies, colleagues and colleagues, since this is a new session, I would also like to welcome you to this session, as well as members of the Council of Ministers and our distinguished guests. I would really, carefully and patiently listen to the suggestions on the agenda, the additions given today at this session, the various explanations in terms of the decision we are talking about, and at this point I would invite all of us to look back at Article 58. The Rules of Procedure, which discusses the agenda of the 16th order and that we also adhere to the Rules of Procedure which states that the College shall include in the agenda the draft law, the reports of the committees and any other point which is mandatory under this Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, paragraph 2 is the mandatory point that has passed the procedure, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and if it is unanimously requested by the House's commission. The College may then include in the agenda other issues which the authorised applicants have submitted to the House and which fall within its jurisdiction. So in one of these dots we have that. And we also have an article in 59 that talks about supplementing the revised agenda. And we also have an article in the 60th that talks about a statement on the updated agenda. I would ask all of us, and, of course, the chairman, to stick to the business provisions and to start pleading on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1681	Thank you, colleague Krišto. Comrade Tihić, come in. Correction of the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1682	Here is the question – will SDA run any other initiative besides this initiative? Yes, we want to launch the Merit Initiative when it's debated. You know, we're starting this now for these procedural reasons, and that's part of the argument over the argument that we're going to make when the metrics are discussed. However, whether this request is now permitted or not, it can only be said by the Constitutional Court. This House can't say that. Only the Constitutional Court can say, as well as many other initiatives that go towards the Constitutional Court, whether something is allowed or not. So, I would once again ask that these demands be made, that this initiative be understood as it stands in the Constitution. After the ruling of the Court of Justice and the arguments that will then be made, we will decide whether or not to launch the Merit Initiative. The Constitutional Court will probably do something through that decision to cough in that direction. I don't think there's any reason for you to be protected right now, I don't know whose interests you are, but you're opposed to the Bošnjak taking advantage of this right that belongs to them under the Constitution. I don't think it would be right, it wouldn't be collegiate, it's not good for cooperation, it's not good for future cases if you're voting on us like this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1683	Thank you, Colga Tihić. My colleague, Krstan Simić, is correcting the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1684	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Tihić, I've made myself very clear. Niko one contests three delegates or three delegates from the Bosniak people's order to deny this initiative. But I said very explicitly, I think at this point, the initiative is premature because the point we're discussing is not on the agenda. 17 The moment we put it on the agenda, no one has the right nor the right nor the intention to prevent any group of delegates from any nation, according to the provisions of Articles 161 and 162. It's different here about timing. On the other hand, there is an attempt here to prevent the intention of putting something on the agenda. What happens if the vote is different if Mr. Bevanda's decision is not confirmed? That's two different things. First, inclusion on the agenda, and then using business opportunities, to raise the issue of protecting vital national interest. For me, the situation here is clear and we've turned this thing around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1685	Thank you, fellow Simić. Are there any more applications to discuss the agenda? As far as I can tell, there's no application. If you're still going to take advantage of the possibility of a business, here I will patiently be my colleague, Kapetanović. Just take it easy, take it easy. A kolegica of the Kapetanović, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1686	It's not a replica of any of my predecessors, it's a replica of Mr. Bradarić. I must, in the name of the dignity of the Bosniak people and the dignity of the political party that I represent and whose interests I represent here, answer some of the claims that have been made here, and without the intention of enchanting the public, as Mr Tadić said. I'm not exactly the queen of the scene or the master of the show and it's not my way or style, absolutely. On Mr. Bradarić's claim that no one has the exclusive right to defend Bosniak interests, you know that it is a very unjust claim. We have a democratic right, and as you can see, that the SDA in this Bosniak People's Club has its three respected members and we have the right to fight for the interests of the Bosniak people. And it is very, very incorrect for you to challenge our legitimacy to defend Bosniak interests. As far as rich and corrupt SDAs are concerned, I think you're with the SDP for at least the ones who need to talk to us about crime and corruption. We are not even actors in the affair rackets and all the other affairs that are being led and that encourage literally and whose SDP creators you are, I do not say you personally, but, of course, the leader of your political party, with tight leadership, is, so don't tell us, Mr. Genjac and Mr. Tihić, I dare say as honorary representatives of the SDA, please don't give us a mortgage of some rich and corrupt SDAs. We are at least not, although three of us are very highly positioned officials, our political parties. You say that in the lands of the monarchy you can rule for a long time, and you forget by mentioning the so-called so-called monarchy. The long-standing, 20-year-old rule of the SDA, and you forget that the SDP, for the third time in these 20 years in power, has not been invoiced for your rule in recent years, but I think it will be invoiced to you in the October elections. I certainly hope so. You say that in the countries of democracy, things like this don't happen. Well, since your political leader's behaviour is not only democratic, but it's autocratic, and anyone knows, 18 who has the basics of political science, knows what autocracy is, Mr Lagumdžija's behaviour, who is the creator and mediator of the political crisis in BiH, which I least charge the leaders of other political parties, who only naturally use the crowd before the goal, so it doesn't give you the right to lecture the SDA here on democracy, because you are a representative of a party in which one man's opinion and autocracy rules. We know that in political systems what autocracy leads to, but it's too difficult a qualification to explain here today, but we'll be able to talk about it later. What is worrying here is the fact that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda, is not in this session today. It would be both human and moral and normal, even in accordance with the Council of Ministers' Law, that he explained the reasons for the replacement of two ministers, Minister of Security, Defence Minister and Deputy Finance Minister Kasumović. On several occasions, he pointed out that these are ministers who are very cooperative, with very good work results. The assessment of their work was given by the international community, so the top representatives of the international community, so it would be so normal and moral that Mr Bevanda here today explained what he said in his press statements, and that is why, at the request of the SDP, he proposes the replacement of those ministers. It would be normal, therefore, if, in accordance with the new parliamentary majority, Mr Bevanda appointed a new minister, but we are afraid of some legal vacuum, some time vacuum in which the Bošnjak would not be sufficiently represented, if the situation occurred and when the situation happened to be replaced by our ministers. We don't have guarantees, unfortunately, that this period won't last very long, we can't know that. We have a very painful experience with Minister Sadović, we remember very well what it looked like with him and that is why we do not, of course, believe. I would like to remind you again,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1687	Wait a minute, we've already got our co-workers.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1688	Here, I'm done. So, it would have been very good if Mr. Bevanda had been at this session today, if he had given an explanation and I think that in that case, and very possibly, the SDA would have made a completely different position and perhaps not come into this situation at all to withdraw vital national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1689	Thank you. The chairman of the Council of Ministers is waiting for us to adopt the agenda to attend the session. Here you go, colleague Ivanić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1690	We're approaching a plea on this point. Mr. Bradarić didn't, if I understood him correctly, suggest inclusion or did he? 19_________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Yes, it is. Then it means your withdrawal of vital interest is related to his proposal, so we know what you're pulling consent to. Nothing, I get it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1692	Thank you. A fellow Genjac's hearing again. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1693	...on behalf of the Club break for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1694	Thank you. Time out for 15 minutes. [[PAUZA]] Okay. Dear colleagues and fellow envoys, fellow ministers welcome, I suggest we continue our work. We came to the stage that, here we have it again so it's registered after the break, of course ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1697	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, since we asked for a break on behalf of the Bosniak Club, I think it would be our duty to give after that break why we asked for a break. We are today facing a very delicate issue in BiH, a question of protection of vital interest. For us, it is undeniable that this issue is to this extent delicate that the issue of the agenda can also be problematicd, especially in the case of agenda points such as the representation of a nation in the executive government. 20 However, by respecting all that we have heard today and by respecting and the need for problems to be solved, we will continue to act at today's session however the House of Nations decides on the agenda here. Of course, on the point of the motion for a change decision, we will re-declarate harmfulness by vital interest and, of course, we will explain it. Of course, we will always insist that this issue of our previous appeal and declaration of harmfulness of vital interest be resolved in an adequate, professional and expert way. So we stay today, we do and as usual as always, delegates and MPs of the U.S.A. what they've been doing, we'll use legal, constitutional and commercial means. I ask my colleagues to bear in mind both the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, whatever they decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1698	Thank you, Genjac. I have the impression that we've exhausted the debate on the agenda. Niko of my colleagues checked in, no one's showing any interest. We're closing the agenda debate. I would now suggest that, given that we have a proposal from my colleague Bradarić, and you are closely following me now, that point 2 of today's agenda should be placed at the point – Confirmation of the Council of Ministers' decision on the replacement of BiH Ministers of Security, BiH Minister of Defence and Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury of BiH. Is that decadent? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Thank you very much. Here's Mr. Bradarić's request, and I suggest we make a statement on this proposal. Please initiate the voting procedure for the change and supplement of the agenda. Okay, thank you very much. Attending 14 - for 10, versus 4, abstentioned none. The Federation of BiH for 6, versus 4, RS 4 -- all for. There's a general, there's an entity majority. I find that we have established the point of today's 2nd session of the 19th session of the House of Peoples, as I just read on the proposal of my colleague Bradarić was included in the agenda. Thank you very much. We're going to the first item of the agenda, we had Ad. 1. Answers to envoys' questions and new envoys' questions
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1701	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1702	If we have any other comments, we don't have formal applications. Thank you very much. Any new envoy questions? Bećirović was the first to apply. Comrade Bećirović, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1703	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Presidency, colleagues and colleagues, I have one question for the Council of Ministers. Why did the Council of Ministers not implement the conclusion of the House of Peoples from one of the previous sessions, which reads: The House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH asks the Council of Ministers to form and deliver to the House by the end of June 2012 the analysis of the criteria for the distribution of income from indirect taxes, in particular from value added tax, legality and professional regularity of VAT registration, the degree of collection of income from indirect taxes by types of those taxes, the measures taken to reduce the evasion of these tax liabilities, all for the period 2007-2012. And when does this conclusion intend to be realized? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1704	Thank you, colleague Bećirović. Sergeant Simić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1705	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. All here witnessed judicial reform, which was conducted and implemented well under the European Community's mentorship, especially with regard to the establishment of VTS, where Germany took great part. This established the standards of the number of judges, prosecutors, or holders of these functions according to certain criteria. Recently, in the media, I read the news that there was an increase in the number of judges and prosecutors and that there are now over 120 more than the time we implemented this reform. 22 My question is to the Ministry of Justice, namely to transform it to the VTS, to get as much data as we have in BiH today as we have a prosecutor's and judge's office, including all levels of judicial authority, and whether the principle of the relationship between the number of holders of these functions is adequate to solutions in other countries, especially Germany, France and England, from the point of view of the population's relations, i.e. the number of citizens in relation to one judicial function? I get the feeling that there's been a disturbance in that balance drastically, and what's causing that kind of disorder? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1706	Thank you, colleague Simić. kolega Bradarić, here you go, colleague Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1707	I have one question and one initiative, in writing. I'm not going to explain the question, I'm delivering, and I just explained the initiative, it's about making a decision to appoint a Joint Parliamentary Anti-corruption Commission. I gave an explanation. Of course, I'm looking for one and the other in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1708	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. I'm a colleague of Rodić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1709	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, my question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers, and the European Commission has made up a list of key commitments whose successful implementation will be a key difference in the assessment of BiH's progress in the 2012 European integration process. A list of key obligations requires the engagement of the Council of Ministers, entity governments and parliaments at all levels of government in charge of individual issues. The European Integration Directorate developed the Action Plan adopted by the Council of Ministers of BiH on 23 February 2012. The action plan contains 29 key measures classified in the following areas: political criteria and justice system, economic criteria, European standards and areas of justice, freedom and security. The deadline for the implementation of key obligations by the competent institutions expired on 31 May 2012. I ask the Council of Ministers to provide me with information on the implementation of the Action Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1710	Thank you, fellow Rodić. A fellow Košarac player. 23
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1711	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to ask the Director of the Intelligence and Security Agency and, of course, the chairman of the Council of Ministers whose mandate is to oversee the work of the Intelligence and Security Agency, which is based on an open letter to representatives of the Serbian institutions of the RS and which is, of course, also referred to the address of the Security and Security Agency of BiH, which reads – What is the status of Senad Bužinkić in the BiH Intelligence and Security Agency, and on which jobs and tasks has been allocated? I note that in an open letter to the Director of the Security and Security Agency and representatives of the Serbian institutions in BiH, the Borak Organisation listed a series of information that points to its burning, I would say, so I don't want to bring a court, a role in the 511th Army of BiH, and I think it would be good for the overall relations, and the indication is that the Chief of Security Checks in this Agency and that this is a very important place, that many who work in the BiH institutions are passing security checks, that they should be examined and cited, finally, that the Intelligence and Security Agency delivers, and, of course, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, delivers accurate information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1712	Thank you, colleague Košarac. He's a colleague of Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1713	Mr. President,... colleagues. I'd like two very practical life issues and a very short one. First, it became a bit degutant to listen to the means of information about these fires and the actions of the Department of Defense, when it comes to the use of helicopters. Yesterday we heard that in Konjic some thousand acres of pine trees, high pine forests, in Duvno about 420, in Trebinj Gora, already I don't know any worse in Eastern Herzegovina, for ten days. And it's a little sad to see those firemen who try to do something with such a pain in the ass, Sisif's work is working, it's impossible to do anything. Helicopters, no fuel, no one to fix. I ask the question, so the Ministry of Defence – In what time will the Ministry of Defence technically train helicopters to operate in natural disasters, and to provide funds for the current costs needed for such action? And the second question, SIPA has filed several charges against officials in the MUPs in various municipalities, the reason is that they issued personal documents without identity checks, so recently one case has been processed where two, three criminals from Croatia have received these documents in a way that they bring only birth certificate and citizenship beliefs. They come there and take pictures of him and give him any birth certificate, any belief of citizenship, and give him personal correction. In a court of law, these applications have been rejected, according to the SIPA's application, because there is no regulation in the law that 24 employees working on the issues of the issue of personal documents are obliged to seek an identification document. So, I ask the question – Does the Ministry of Civil Affairs intend and when to launch an initiative to amend the provisions of the relevant laws and other regulations which would require officials working on the issue of personal documents to determine the identity of the person to whom the document is issued? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1714	Thank you, colleague Vrdoljak. I have a feeling we've exhausted the need for new envoy issues. Niko one's getting ready. Thank you very much. We're closing this agenda. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Could not close temporary folder: %s The chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers on 25.06.2012 referred the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to the Decision on the replacement of the Minister of Security, Minister of Defence and Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury for confirmation. At the 31st session of this year, the House of Representatives confirmed the Decision on the replacement of the Minister of Security, Defence and Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury. I give my word to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda, if there is any need. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1716	Dear People's House Chairman Dr. Čović, respected members of the House's College, respected MPs, fellow members of the Council of Ministers. I feel the need to, in addition to the decision you've received in the attachment and confirmations of the House of Representatives, simply give a few clarifications. I would like to remind you of some important facts from the near past that, I believe, will contribute to a faster and better understanding of the democratic processes that are under way. When the BiH Council of Ministers was formed in February of this year as part of the parliamentary majority, based on agreed programme objectives and election results, the SDA was assigned to the seats of security ministers, defence ministers and deputy finance and vault ministers. Accordingly, in those positions of her own, she has nominated persons to act as such responsible officials in the Council of Ministers. 25 Taking into account that the fundamental democratic principle for the establishment of an executive government in BiH, as a result of the entire democratic world, the parliamentary majority is ready and able to implement in the legislative procedure the necessary reform processes necessary for European and Euro-Atlantic integration, the right to change political views and deviations from agreed principles, is an undeniable democratic category, but also the obligation to take full political responsibility for the decisions made. The highly outlined objectives, set by us, require a special degree of democratic maturity and discernment, political wisdom and visionary readiness, in order to launch processes that have been set in the Map of Ways, which we have agreed in Brussels and which is the result of the political agreement, rather than the imposed solution. With this in mind, given the formation of a new parliamentary majority, and taking into account the SDP party's initiative, supported by other political parties, based on Article 15. Law on the Council of Ministers, I made the decision to replace the BiH Security Minister, the BiH Defence Minister and Deputy Minister of Finance and the BiH Treasury that come from the SDA ranks. As is known, this Decision was confirmed by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives at the 31st session held on 05.07.2012. I would like to stress that this decision is the result of a political debate in which the policy, which is now being represented by ministers and deputy ministers in the decision in question, has no support from the majority. On behalf of all of this, I expect you to support my Decision on the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers in the Council of Ministers, and thus contribute to the more functional work of the executive authority, which is rightly expected to deliver in this House a series of systemic regulations necessary for the further progress of BiH as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1717	Thank you, vijaće's chairman. I'm opening a debate on this agenda point. The first one came to the hearing was a fellow Genjac. Here you go, my fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1718	I thank the Chairman,... [[microphone is not enabled]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1719	Just turn the microphone on your fellow Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1720	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1721	Automatism should be done by someone, me.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1722	Oh, thank you. So, for procedural reasons and for stenograms, so I'll probably do some things again, but I still have to do it for those reasons. So, Halid Genjac, Bosniak delegate, Sulejman 26 Tihić, Bosniak delegate and Nermina Kapetanović, Bosniak delegate, chairman of the House of Nations pursuant to Article 161(1) and (2). The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly declare the proposed Decision confirming the Council of Ministers' decision to replace the BiH Security Minister, the BiH Defence Minister and Deputy Minister of Finance and the BiH Treasury, harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people. Explanation: According to Article 6(1) The Council of Ministers Act, the overall composition of the Council of Ministers, will be fully in line with the BiH Constitution during the entire term of office, and will, accordingly, ensure equal representation of the constituent peoples of BiH throughout the term of office. According to Article 10(2), The law on the Council of Ministers, ministers and deputy ministers enters office immediately after confirmation by the House of Representatives. In accordance with Article 12(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The Council of Ministers Act, if the chairman of the Council of Ministers resigns or is permanently prevented from carrying out his duties, shall resign the Council of Ministers and shall carry out his duties until the approval of the new Chair and members of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, according to the cited provisions of the Council of Ministers Act, based on the above-mentioned members of the BiH Constitution, it is unequivocal that the Council of Ministers' composition is ethnically defined in such a way as to ensure equal representation of the constituent peoples of BiH throughout the term of office. When the entire Council of Ministers is replaced, the Council of Ministers shall carry out its duty to confirm the new chairman and members of the Council of Ministers. When a minister or deputy minister is replaced, the term of office shall cease and the post shall remain vacant until the appointment of a new minister or deputy minister. The chairman of the Council of Ministers launched a procedure to replace BiH Security Ministers, BiH Defence Ministers and Deputy Finance and Treasury Ministers of BiH. The ministers and deputy ministers, whose shift is proposed, are Bošnjak. The appointment of the existing Council of Ministers, mainly due to various political parties' blackmails, was only made in 10.02.2012, i.e. 16 months after the announcement of election results and after reaching an agreement on the party and ethnic division of ministerial positions, with a particularly significant position as foreign minister. It is known when, in the previous term, the minister of security was removed, also from the Bosniak people's ranks, and when it was filled with the appointment of a new minister, only after more than 4 months, the shift was carried out on July 17th 2009, the appointment of a new minister made on November 24th. The reasons why the Council of Ministers has been in incomplete composition for so long at the expense of the Bosniak people are the blackmails of SNSD and SDS parties, identical to the blackmails that are now unequivocally announced. Namely, there were agreements on certain appointments not related to the appointment of the Council of Ministers. The reasons for which these appointments have not been made are mainly disagreements, disagreements and in any case cannot be attributed to either party. But since these appointments have not been made, then the vacant position of Bosniaks in the Council of Ministers has been used, to blackmail themselves by appointing those appointments that have nothing to do with the Council of Ministers, it agrees to fill the 27th Council of Ministers. So, identical blackmails are now unequivocally announced. These are facts, it's known from the media and it's unequivocal and said. Therefore, party leaders announced the conditions for replacing possibly replaced ministers with other appointments, such as the director of the RAC, the management position in the Directorate for indirect impeachment, the ministerial post in the Federation Government and so on. Fulfillment of possibly empty ministerial seats under an uncontested Bosniak agreement is conditioned by other appointments in favour of SNSD parties, SDS or other parties. The procedures of these other appointments generally take months. It is important to note that without the consent of SNSD and SDS parties, it is not possible to appoint ministers. We do not dispute the need and necessity for these appointments to be completed. We are contesting the threatening possibility of appointing the vacant seats in the Council of Ministers to the conditions of these appointments, which has already happened and which is not in any way connected. These facts suggest that possibly empty Bosniak ministerial positions would remain unfulfilled for a long time. The issue of amending the Council of Ministers' composition in order to establish a new composition of the parliamentary majority, which, as the chairman said, embellishes political maturity and visionary readiness, can and must be resolved in a way that will not cause damage to the vital interest of any, so does the Bosniak people. The current chairman and the whole composition of the Council of Ministers cannot continue with the mandate won with the support of a political party that is not in the new parliamentary majority. It is legitimate to change the parliamentary majority. We are not talking about which ministers will work better or worse, but the new parliamentary majority should be held by the election of the chairman and the entire composition of the Council of Ministers. This means that the chairman of the Council of Ministers, elected by another parliamentary majority, should resign. It is common practice in developed democracies, such as the more difficult and political parties in the new parliamentary majority. This way of moving to the new parliamentary majority is particularly consistent with the existing opportunities in BiH. In this way, the Council of Ministers would continue to work fully until the appointment of the new Council of Ministers, and all constituent nations and others would also remain in a level playing field in the current Council of Ministers and in the appointment of the new Council of Ministers. Otherwise, by changing only two ministers and one deputy minister, the Bosniak minister would find himself in an unequal position and in an existing Council of Ministers until those positions are filled in and in possible talks on a new council of ministers' meeting. In view of the experience with the change of the security minister in the previous term, the present blackmails and conditions, political and interethnic disagreements with regard to appointments, it is quite certain that only two Bosniak ministers would experience a long-standing state of default after a possible shift, and at the expense of the Bosniak people, i.e. the replacement of possibly replaced Bosniak ministers, would be delayed by blackmails and, for a long time, the incomplete composition of the Council of Ministers, which is irrefutable in the vital interest of the Bosniak people. It is a violation of the Constitution and the law of the Bosniak people's guaranteed right to be represented in the Council of Ministers as well as other two constituent nations throughout the term of office. According to the cited provisions of the Council of Ministers Act, the appointment of ministers and deputies is confirmed only by the House of Representatives, and the transfer decision, in addition to the House of Representatives, is made by the House of Peoples. This role was given to the House of Nations, among other things, to ensure the protection of the rights of each nation to equal representation in the Council of Ministers throughout the term of office. Those reasons fully justify the declaration of the proposed Decision on the replacement of ministers and deputy ministers, harmful to the vital interest of the Bosniak people and confirm the necessity to vote 28 on this Decision in accordance with Article 161(2). Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. I further cited the rules of the Rules of Procedure on continued conduct in such cases that I do not now read. And I ask the College of the House of Peoples and the Chairman to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1723	Thank you, fellow Genjac. Do we have any more reports to discuss? We don't. Thank you very much. I don't see any interest in that. This text, I hope we got in this new form, I suggest that if we no longer have the need to conduct a debate on this agenda point, that again in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and articles, I suggest that, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, we conduct the procedure whose initiative has just been presented by our fellow Genjac. It has been read, I think we've all heard it clearly enough, it will be delivered in a copy of all of us here and I suggest, if you agree, if we no longer need to discuss this item of the agenda, to run it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure necessary, in order to end up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure concerning this request by a fellow Genjac, i.e. Genjac colleagues, Genjca colleagues, colleagues Tihić and fellow Members of the Kapetanović. Do we agree on that? Okay. Since there are no applications or interests in that, since this procedure is not simply installed in our electronic voting capacity, I'm going to ask you to prepare these red-green-white papers, so that we can complete the plea procedure and I'll go easy and just go one by one detail. So, first I'm talking to the Bosniak Club. Whether the proposed conclusion is
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1724	It's a decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1725	The proposed decision, I'm sorry, which we would have under this agenda, is contrary to the vital interest of the Bosniak people? Please be voted by representatives of the Bosniak people. 3 for, 2 against. Thank you very much. I now call on representatives of the Croatian people with the same question. Is this agenda item contrary to the vital interests of the Bosniak people? 4 versus and 1 abstention. Thank you very much. 29 And now I call on the representatives of the Serbian people to declare whether this agenda item is contrary to the vital interests of the Bosniak people? Please vote. 4 versus and 1 abstention. Thank you very much. It means that there is no agreement in the House of Peoples that it is vital interest here, that means that we are now deciding in accordance with Article 162. Rules of Procedure - In the event of opposition from most Croatian, Bosniak or Serbian representatives in the House of Peoples, an invitation to Article 161(2). The Rules of Procedure, which we have just had, the chairman of the House of Peoples, convenes a joint committee composed of three representatives of which one of the Hrvat, Bošnjak, Srbin, to resolve the issue. So now I'm going to ask the representatives of one, the other and the third Club to immediately propose one person who would make this body. I think we can finish this right now. In the name of the Bošnjak? ____________?(?) Halid. Can we do this in public because we don't have to do it here, but I think it's wise to do it right here? In the name of the Bosniak Club, Mr. Genjac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1727	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1728	Thank you very much. In the name of the Hrvat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1729	A microphone. Tell us. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1730	Here I am going to say it out loud, since it didn't get into the microphone, and it didn't get recorded in tone. My colleague Krišto in the name of the Hrvat. Thank you very much. In the name of the Srbin? 30
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1731	Mr. Košarac Staša.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1732	In the name of the Srbin, Mr. Košarac. In accordance with Rule 162(2) of the Rules of Procedure. – If the commission we have just appointed, colleague Genjac, colleague Krišto and colleague Košarac, fails to resolve this issue within 5 days, the case is referred to the BiH Constitutional Court of Automatism, which will, after a hasty procedure, examine whether there are irregularities in the process. I think for this session, as far as these agenda points are concerned, that's enough. Thank you very much. We're closing item 2 of today's agenda. Moving to point three, Ad. 3. Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act (second reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1/12 of 11/01.2012. This is a second reading, a second reading is a debate on repairs and a vote on the bill's proposal. You have received a report from the Committee on Foreign Policy, i.e. Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Liaison of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly. The commission adopted the proposal for a law with five amendments that became an integral part of the text of the Law and proposed that it be adopted to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the Customs Tariff Act at the 30th session held on 2106th of the year in a second reading with five amendments. I now give my word to the Proposer of the Law, if anyone needs it on behalf of the Council of Ministers. No need, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. Interest in applying, colleague Košarac just slow. A fellow Košarac player, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1734	Break five minutes, break five minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1735	Please pause for five minutes, we'll stay here. We don't have to go anywhere. 31 [[PAUZA]] Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I suggest we take our seats slowly and continue our work on the 3rd agenda. Since some colleagues have certain obligations to the media, but we have a quorum, and I suggest we move slowly. Is it necessary for you to give an explanation?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1737	There isn't.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1738	Thank you very much. Are there more people in charge of the debate on this agenda point? There isn't. Thank you very much. I suggest we initiate the voting procedure on the bill proposal. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1739	Well, there's three.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1740	We have quorum, __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1747	Thank you. Please cancel this and start a new voting procedure. Just you guys take it easy, come on. You guys, we've got a little bit of time. Thank you, go ahead. So it's about the second round of voting. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Attending 14 – for 6, versus 7, abstention 1. Federation of BiH – 5 for, 4 against. RS – 1 for, 3 against and 1 abstention. The general majority doesn't exist. I agree with the proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on the revision of BiH institutions has not been adopted in the first reading. Thank you very much. 34 We move to the sixth point of today’s agenda, Ad. Six. Report on the work of the Interresor Working Group on the preparation of amendments and additions to the Election Law, the Law on the financing of political parties and the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions, material No: 01,02-50-14-30-17/12 of 06.06.2012. The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, by the conclusion of the House of Peoples adopted at the 5th session, since 14 September last year, with the conclusion of the House of Representatives adopted at the 8th session, has established an Interresor Working Group for the preparation of amendments and additions to the Election Law, the Law on the financing of political parties and the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions. The task of the Interresor Working Group was to prepare a proposal to amend and supplement those laws no later than 01.05. The Interresor Working Group completed its work at the 17th session, held on 15th of this year, and delivered a report that should be made known. The House of Representatives adopted the Interresor Working Group Report at the 30th session held on 2106. I give my word to an Interressor Working Group representative, a fellow Genjac if he has needs?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1749	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1750	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this report. We don't have any reports, and we don't have any interest in reporting. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate on this report. We're voting for adoption of the report. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much, everybody green. Attending 14 – for 14, against and abstentioned no one. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 5 – all for. There's a general and entity majority. I agree on the report on the work of the Interresor Working Group to prepare amendments and additions to the Election Law, the Law on the financing of political parties and the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions has been adopted. Thank you very much. 35 We move to the seventh point of today’s agenda, Ad. Seven. Information on implementation of the Transition Strategy from analogue to digital earth broadcasting in frequency range 174-230 MHz and 470-862 MHz in Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Ministry of Communications and Transport material of BiH, issue: 02-29-681/12 out of 30. 5. 2012 The material is the Ministry of Communications and Transport, you have received the opinion of the Committee for Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. The commission has received knowledge of the Information, and is proposing to the House its receipt of knowledge. I give my word to the president, my colleague Bećirović, if there is any need? Thank you very much. I'll give the applicant a word of information if there's any need. Thank you very much, no. I'm opening a debate about this information. kolega Bradarić, here's your colleague, Bradarić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1752	...we had an opportunity here and I was talking about it that the Agency for, or the Office for Reviewing Appeals is not effective, that relations between persons are such that they produce more lasting harmful consequences or let's say that they are not technically qualified to solve issues to the greatest extent possible. And because of this, there is some kind of fear that the Office will not bring a solution to the complaints about the tender for the purchase of this equipment, so here is a kind of request that they update it, that is to say, to do within that time limit as prescribed by the administrative procedure. If that doesn't happen, then the late introduction of the contractors, enters the winter, and then there is a real danger that, that this implementation of the whole project should be delayed and beyond that kind of deadline in December 2014. And if in this case BiH remains without a digital TV system it will not be able to participate in a TV exchange with, with the EU and should be clear to citizens that people will not be able to watch TV in BiH after that date. So, the application, the suggestion of the Board of Appeals to actually be effective in this matter. And as for them, how they will make their decision, it is upon them.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1753	Thank you, colleague Bradarić. I don't see any interest, thank you very much. We're closing the debate. We're voting on the information in question. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. 14 present – all for. Federation of BiH 9 - all for. RS 5 - all for. So there's a general and entity majority. I find information on the implementation of the switch strategy from analogue to digital earth broadcasting in frequency ranges that are listed is accepted. Thank you very much. 36 Let us move forward, on the agenda of today's session, we have a consensus on the ratification of agreements and conventions. I propose as usual to bring the debate together, a statement on granting consent to ratification of the agreements and conventions referred to in points 8 to 11 including point 18. (?). So I'm asking you to give us a heads-up on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1754	Until 11, from 8 to 11.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-07-19-1.u1755	It's from 8 to 11. Attending 14 — for 14. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 5 – all for. There's a general and entity majority. The proposal was passed. You have received a report from the Committee on Foreign and Trade Policy, Customs, Transport and Relations of the House of Peoples. I give my word to my colleague Bećirović, if he needs these points. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on points 8 to 11. I don't see any reports, and I don't see any interest in applying for a hearing. Thank you very much. We're closing the debate. We vote on granting consent to ratification of the agreements and conventions referred to in points 8 to 11 including point 11. Please initiate voting procedure. Thank you very much. Of the 14 present — all for. Federation of BiH 9 – all for, RS 5 – all for. So there's a general and entity majority. I agree that we have agreed to ratify the agreements and conventions referred to in points 8 to 11 of the agenda including point 11. We have exhausted the agenda of today's session, and I have only three information left for distinguished colleagues and colleagues. First of all, as far as the Finance Committee is concerned, I was asked to stay, so Mr Ivanić, Rodić, Bećirović, Bradarić and I are here to finish the Finance Committee. And as for the next session, it should, the 20th session of the House of Peoples, be held at 11:00 on 25.07., that's the day Mr. Ban Ki-moon visits BiH and Parliament. And that, at 11:00, would mean a session with a very summarised agenda, what happens by then to be prepared quality, I think there's going to be about 5 or 6 points. And at 4:45 would be a joint session of both homes, where we would be contacted by the chairman of the UN, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, so here's a request 37 to all of you to plan this in your duties. So, on July 25th or July, he likes to say counterpart Tihić, at 11:00, the 20th session of the House of Peoples, and at 16:45 a.m. Joint session. Thank you very much. Session completed at 2:45 p.m.
