ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8220	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, I am opening the 20th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting: the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies, who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs and media representatives. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. According to service information, 35 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for changes to the agenda, I would like to tell you that earlier agendas are removed earlier points: 9. Proposal for a Customs Tariff Act, Proposer: Council of Ministers; Number 12. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the financing of institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, as well as point 13. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs. New agenda points are included: 15. Proposal for a conclusion of the Transport and Communications Commission of the House of Representatives regarding the end of the term of office of BHRT Management Board members from the Serbian and Croatian people; 19. The appointment of the Secretary of the House of Representatives as well as the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly; 20. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the same text of the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2013, as this law was adopted yesterday in the House of Peoples in a different text than it was adopted in the House of Representatives; 21. The resolution of fellow Members Božo Ljubić of the Interparliamentary Friendship Group of the Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with the parliamentary bodies of other countries number VI and the appointment of a member in Interparliamentary Friendship Group number V. 2 Point 11 in the previous agenda was point 14. Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Value Added Tax Act, the Proposer: the Honorable Parliament of Aleksandra Pandurević, was supplemented by the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budgets; as you know, the Opinion is negative; Point 6 has been reformed in accordance with Rule 111(6) of the Rules of Procedure, and since the relevant Constitutional Commission has not submitted a report on the Amendment Law and Supplements to the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and now it reads: The House's statement on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the report on the amendment of the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina. I hope you've been following these changes and additions. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8221	I have no objection to what you have commented, or to the amended and updated agenda, but I have a proposal for a new agenda item that reads: - The role and responsibility of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the discussion and adoption of reports, resolutions, declarations and similar documents at the meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, the OSCE, IPU, PAM, the European Parliament and the Central European Initiative. We're 27. Ten. In 2011, we launched an initiative to discuss materials at that time current, meaning the European Commission's 2011 Progress Report, the draft "Constitutional Change in BiH" resolution at the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, the "political situation in the Balkans" resolution adopted at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on 7 October 2011, but these materials are no longer practically current, the rest are behind us. The College has informed us that this initiative, or proposed that we turn this initiative into a proposal for a new agenda, and we are doing so today. We intend to try, say, through the Foreign Affairs Commission to do some document, regulation, guidelines, guidance, etc., which would necessarily be followed by members of our delegations, these are delegations of this Parliament, in order to avoid situations of different approaches, etc. So, let's try to predict in some context possible situations and bring our members of the delegations into a situation where they won't be in a situation where the meetings there themselves are confrontational, etc. So it's possible to find a way and when we disagree to take a kind of instruction... etc. In addition, the intention is to inform this parliament about the documents and to have a report on some of them, how they were adopted, what it is, etc. So far, this situation has been pretty messy. So, the intention is to try to agree here to assign the Foreign Affairs Commission to try to sort out this situation, or to sort out how to handle these situations. We don't think it can be solved until the end, but at least some framework that would... disable, in fact, a kind of poor representation of the country in these forums. Of course, we can do these domestic fights here, but when our people go out there to try to secure as much as possible unique approaches. There are also good examples: when it comes to another resolution, our people have agreed, and 3 have proposed a joint amendment there at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and that is commendable. Here, that's our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8222	Thank you. Let's technically sort this stuff out. So, the materials for your agenda item have been sent to the MPs before. They're not on the benches right now, but the materials have been obtained before. You suggest we put the agenda in place where it would be discussed only your conclusion that it is addressed to the committees, not the material that the MPs have received. Please give this proposal of your agenda to put to the vote, given that the business conditions have been met to put it to the vote. Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understood what you said the conditions were met, however, although it really makes sense what Mr. Belkić was talking about, I am not sure that we are ready today to discuss this quality. I would have directed Mr. Belkić sooner, I know that they are not at the College represented as a club, that we have had the opportunity to agree in a different way, in particular that when it comes to this issue she is very, not to say complicated, since she is in the making of the Foreign Policy Act. Given that Parliament does not have the only jurisdiction to conduct foreign policy, we well know the role of the Presidency, so that it does not, however, deny that this point is on the agenda, there should be some better coordination and a better preparation attempt. And my suggestion is that, together with kolegij, you try to prepare it at the next session, respecting all these facts. I'm not sure, but here we are, to be honest, we're preparing for this agenda point today, and I think we need more time, and I think that through what I've been talking about, the Foreign Affairs Commission could be very good, because the proposal really makes sense, but here are some adjustments, to be on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8224	Thank you. I hope you understand that I have said that there have been conditions to vote on the proposed agenda point, not prejudge how clubs and MPs will vote. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8225	We don't insist on being at this session. But for information to the Members of Parliament, I have mentioned that since the tenth month we have been trying to run this in a way in front of this house and then we have entered these business gaps, so to speak, we have been trying, we have been collecting material, we have been delivering, we have written to the College, etc. We don't mind not discussing it today, but just let me know, if you're in the mood to put this on, can we count on it to be at the next or one of the next sessions, without having to suggest it again and so on. Here, we don't insist on not making a problem. So, we don't prejudge, to see if we can agree to do some four frames that would help our people in these bodies that when they come up, they have some kind of game rules, so to speak. Here, it is, so we do not insist that today, we appreciate that people may not be ready for today, but here, let us still get into a situation to make that House known. He doesn't have to today, he can go to one of the next, the first next, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8226	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8227	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, two things – one protocol and one question for you. So, I see there's been a rotation and... so let's say here in Parliament that we thank the so far chairman of the House and wish you a successful home run in the next eight-month term, that it doesn't remain unmarked in this room at the beginning of the session. And the question is: Have you tried, since this is the conclusion of one of the previous sessions, to organise consultations on the Law on the ID card, i.e. amendments to the Law on the ID card and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence, because I see that these laws are again on the agenda today? I would only ask the answer to that question so that I could make certain decisions for myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8228	Thank you. So, on behalf of the College, I can say that the College did not organise any... we felt it was not the responsibility of the College to organise any consultation but was the conclusion proposed by the MPs to delay the plea for this point, but at the same time, it was definitely said that this would happen at this session, and it was left to anyone who felt it necessary to make further consultations to do so. Official consultations, as far as I know, were gone. On the other hand, Mr. Belkić, it's clear to me that this is the way where everyone is declared to agree that your point is placed on the agenda of the next session is not operationally possible. I propose that we vote on your agenda item, that this agenda item, if adopted, be the 19th item of the agenda before the appointment of the secretary and adopt a conclusion at that point of the agenda in which these materials are forwarded to our committees and delegations for opinion. When these opinions are delivered, a debate on the agenda will be held at one of the next sessions. If you agree that we're going that way, I suggest we end this situation. 5 At the same time, I would like to thank Mr. Denis Bećirović, who has led this home over the past eight months, for the persistent and responsible work, the running and organising of the sessions, and I would like for all of us to do so in the coming period at least so well. If everything concerning the debate on the agenda is resolved here, I am concluding the debate and I am giving it to the vote, as I have already suggested, the agenda item, which is the role and responsibility of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the discussion and adoption of reports, resolutions, declarations and similar documents at EP, PSVE, PAM, OSCE, NATO and IPU. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 27, 'against' two,'restricted' six. Enough entity majority. I agree that we adopted the proposal by Mr Beriz Belkić and MP Azra Hadžiahmetović for the new agenda point, which becomes the 19th item of the agenda. And allow me a little patience to read the adopted agenda. 1. Records from the 18th and 19th session of the House of Representatives; 2nd Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. The request of MP Niko Lozančić to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure, Law No 01,02-02-1-512, of 19.1.2012; 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-111, of 8.11.2011. (second reading) – Delayed statement at the 19th session of the House, held in 19.1.2012; 5. Proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-7-5410, of 11.10.2010. (second reading) – Delayed statement at the 19th session of the House, held in 19.1.2012; 6. Declaration by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the report on the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Law on State Service in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01.02-02-1-1811, of 8.9.2011; 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Violations, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-2611, from 20.12.2011 (second reading); 8. The Commission's report to the College on efforts to reach agreement on the proposal for a law on the state aid system in Bosnia and Herzegovina, proposing Council of 6 BiH Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-1711, of 8.9.2011. (law in first reading) – a delayed statement at the 19th session of the House, held in 19.1.2012; 9. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH Institutions, Proposer of the Council of Ministers, Law No 01,02-02-1-212, of 11.1.2012 (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-312, of 11.1.2012 (first reading); 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, MP Aleksandra Pandurević, Law No 01-02-1-2511, of 14.11.2011, with the Commission's Opinion on Finance and Budget; 12. Report on the work on amendments and additions to Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law with the aim of implementing the BiH Constitutional Court Decision No. In 909 – Mostar City (the Interresor Working Group material for preparing amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH Authorities, No 01,02-50-14-108911, since 19.1.2012); 13. Report of the BiH institutions' audit office on the impact audit carried out on the subject "The Management of Costs of Employment and Accommodation of BiH institutions", issue 014-16-1-1203-111, since 16.1.2012; 14. Appointment of a member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Radio and Television Service Management Board from the Bosniak people – Bosnia and Herzegovina's candidate for Bosnia and Herzegovina's Regulatory Agency, material No 01.2-29-117911, since 18.11.2011 (rescheduled declaration at the 15th session of the House, held on 8.12.2011); 15. Proposal for a conclusion of the Transport and Communications Commission of the House of Representatives regarding the end of the term of office of BHRT members from the Serbian and Croatian people, material No. 015-29-1224-1,1011, of 31.1.2012; 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine the use of donor funds, No 01d-34-1-10812, of 23.1.2012. (Proposed conclusion prepared by the Office of the House of Representatives); 17. The Commission's report on Parliament's initiative by Aleksandra Pandurević from the 15th session of the House, held on 8.12.2011, which reads "In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly Representatives' House of Representatives are launching an initiative to include in the agenda an analysis of the implementation of the State Strategy for War Crimes cases’; 18. A statement on Parliament's initiative by Aleksandra Pandurević from the 12th session of the House, held on 27.10.2011, which reads "An initiative for inclusion in the agenda of the BiH Council of Ministers' House of Representatives report on the implementation of measures and activities to address the problems of BiH citizens who were employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia, and fired from work from 1991 to 1995" 19. The role and responsibility of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for considering and adopting reports, resolutions, declarations and similar documents at EP, PSSE, PSM, OSCE, NATO, IPU and CEI meetings; 20. The appointment of the Secretary of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 21. The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on the List of Populations, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2013; 7 22. Resolution Božo Ljubić membership in the Interparliamentary Friendship Group of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with other countries' parliamentary bodies No. VI and appointment as a member of the Interparliamentary Friendship Group of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with other countries' parliamentary bodies No. V; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) and the Union des Association of Europeennes de Football (UEFA) and the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the Football Football Football Association of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in connection with the Project on the Construction of the Centre for Training in the Football Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (FSBiH) in Zenica, which is to be co-financed by FIFA and UEFA; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the construction of an interstate bridge across the Sava River near Gradiška and connected border sections of interstate E-661; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the construction of southern border roads in Corridor Vc; 26. Giving consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Swiss Confederation and the Republic of Austria on the establishment and operation of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy (ICMPD); 27. To give consent to the ratification of the International Convention on the Harmonised System of Name and Code Marks of Goods and Protocol amending and supplementing the International Convention on the Harmonised System of Name and Code Marks of Goods. Comrades and colleagues, we move on to the realization of the adopted agenda. Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 18th and 19th sessions
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8232	Thank you, Chairman. I would like to comment on the answer I received from the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Unfortunately, this answer shows the state of our judicial system. It's terrible, I'm really shocked that one of the prosecutors of the Cantonal Prosecutor's Office Doboj and the judges of the Court of BiH are accused of criminal acts of counterfeiting, abuse of official position and authority, illegal influence on the pro-judicate system, of reporting it to the media, of having a number of media inscriptions, a number of contributions on television, and, instead of investigating whether it really stands, whether these charges really stand, whether the exact allegations from the disciplinary report are true, we find out that for a year and a half of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council and the Disciplinary Prosecutor have done nothing on this case. That people of extremely questionable moral credibility, people who break the law, perform the most judicial functions. This really points to why we need an in-depth reform of the justice system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8233	Thank you. Before I give my word, dear colleague Mato Franjičević, do I not see that I read you in the comments or is that a new question? Here you go. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8234	I also got an answer that was protocold yesterday, and I got it on the bench today.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8235	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8236	I only answered to ask for this reason – it is the response of the Federal Ministry of Defence and Disabilities of Homeland War – to ask for a comment on this answer next time. I was really unable to compare the answers to the relevant legal regulations.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8237	That's why we didn't even read you, we thought next time. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8238	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers and present guests, I am not satisfied with any answer. And what does it mean that I'm not satisfied? Will anyone ever say in response that I am wrong to ask such questions or that these competent institutions that we all ask are not obliged to provide answers that would satisfy MPs or that they do not report on the actual state of affairs everything that has happened. And what's crucial, which is business-defined, what's the point of what we're commenting on when no one can answer for anything. Whether his private, practically looks so, right, and it shouldn't be, should be professional... that he is obliged to answer the MP's question asked. What doesn't answer, what won't answer? And even harder, what if he deals with incorrect information and adapts the answer he thinks he needs, that authorized signer who stamps and signs it. What's next? Therefore, so that I do not waste time and ask various parliamentary questions that I see completely pointless, because no one is responsible for what... we ask for an answer, but there is no answer, and there is no change on the basis of this issue, so here I will say the public, so I give up until further notice and happiness for Parliament from asking any parliamentary questions until the election of the Council of Ministers of the new, because I guess those institutions should shake up a little bit so that they work and give up any comments because this is just a distraction of themselves. And I have really great respect for my colleagues, so not to harass you, no further questions asked, no comments... no more.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8239	Before these questions, I just wanted to commend the institutions that began to work more zealously, but also the fact that some difficult parliamentary issues are waiting a little longer to be answered. Dear First Vice-President Božo Ljubić, comment on the question. Here you go. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8240	Mr. Chairman, allow me to congratulate your first deputy on taking over the presidency of this House and to thank your predecessor, Col. Bećirović, for his work so far. And now let me comment fully on this answer at the next session, because this is a very large material that was delivered to me through the Federal Ministry of Energy and with the documentation of the Igman military industry, and the question was, to remind my colleagues and colleagues, of discrimination against workers of Croatian and Serbian nationality in this industry, which is mostly state-owned. What is indicative here is actually in this response and what further, to say, motivates me to do further checks, says: 'In this way the working status after the termination of work has been regulated by the following employees', and then the names are listed, 'Slavko, Jasna, Ivanka, Ilija, Zdravko, Katica, Milovan,..., Niko'. So, where did this industry come from to even mention names if it wasn't there, because I didn't mention a single name in my question. So let me give this answer in full at the next session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8241	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zijad Jagodić, comment on the response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8242	Thank you. Dear Chairman, co-chaired, distinguished colleagues and fellow guests, I have received more answers to questions and initiatives and I would like only two, or three answers to comment on how well it is for the public to know what I should be saying today. The first answer, i.e. the answer relating to my asked question: 'What is it intended to do with non-sent certificates?' I received two answers, one from the institutions, or the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia, the other from the Federation Ministry of Finance, which says that in 2006, investment procedures have been completed in the Federation, but this is still unclear to the people because they are being manipulated, i.e.... the certificates still have value and... that there is at least the theoretical possibility of certain privatisational, therefore, publication and investment of these certificates. With this letter, or by reply, I would like to make it clear that with the certificates, except in the purchase of apartments, there is no longer any hope for citizens who have the same certificates. That's what we need to think about and see if it's the right thing to do. The second, from the RS, is also definitely the certification process, i.e. the vouchers stopped. As for my second answer, he refers to an initiative... which I sent to the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communication 'what and how can they help to fix the situation at Tuzla and Mostar airports?', however, the answer says that they help as much as they can. But that's what it stands for, because the jurisdiction is, after all, Tuzla Airport and Mostar Airport... with their owners. I'm really not happy with this, and I think, and I'm encouraging again, but I've already prepared a new initiative for the Civil Aviation Directorate, because someone has to run and say what it takes to make more significant or 11 sensitive repairs of traffic at these airports, because... it's unacceptable to have extremely large investments in such locations, and without any effect. I think it's very important that we know here. And the third thing, I got, or the third answer was summed up through several cantonal answers, and even, normally, from the RS, from Brcko District, in which I asked, or asked, "What are the competent institutions intending to do about the development of tourism?" I see that, through answers, everyone states that, in some ways, through certain decisions, regulations, education, they can't influence but they can't do more because it is, above all, in addition to a vague strategy and financial costs, i.e. the resources necessary for a more significant investment. And I think there's going to be a new initiative about that, too. So someone has to say what the funds are, what projects, what about the tourism strategy, etc., I think it's on... And another of the answers that I have just addressed to the Federation Railways Directorate as well as the RS Railway Directorate regarding the removal of legal, or illegal road crossings where most often the most significant number of people die, but this also happens at legal railway crossings that are not properly... or marked. In the answers they...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8243	All I'd ask is an esteemed representative to keep an eye on him in time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8244	Here, I got an answer saying it was all done, but people still die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8245	I would like to thank Reverend Jagodić. The following came to comment on the issues, a respected representative of Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8246	Thank you, Your Honor, the Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm happy with the speed we've been getting answers to parliamentary questions lately, but I'm not answering. The truth is, the answer was exhausted and it was... the disappearance of weapons and ammunition from the Defense Department warehouse. I see that in all cases, procedures have been initiated, that some, the prosecution is being led in certain cantonal and entity courts, but I am not satisfied with, say, the sentences of disciplinary measures for the disappearance of nearly 10,000 pieces of ammunition. People got sentencing, reprimanded, and only some others got about 20 to 25% pay cuts. I mean, for so much ammunition to disappear that more drastic measures should be, because sometimes it was known for one bullet, one bullet could cause death, not here about 10,000 bullets and someone would just be punished. I think that's a little unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8247	I thank the honourable representative, Boško Tomić. 12 The following comment was received by distinguished representative Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8248	Dear Chairman, my name has not been read on the list of MPs who have received an answer to the asked question, but I would like to remind you that I received an answer at the last session that I was not present at, so in that sense I would like to make a statement about the answer received. So, on seven questions raised at the 14th session, referred to the Ministry of Defence, I did not practically get an answer to any of them. I just want to read one sentence that actually corresponds to all of this 'that, at the request of the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the Agency for Investigation and Protection is conducting a pre-secretive investigation and in connection with the same Ministry of Defence has provided all the documentation available with the identification of the persons responsible for the failures that caused the unauthorized sale of TNT by PRETIS and that the Ministry of Defence will continue... in continuity to continue its co-operation with the Agency for Investigation and Protection in order to take the final views as set out above'. I guess that's the key to the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8249	I thank the esteemed representative Dušanka Majkić. The following came forward for a comment by the esteemed representative Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8250	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and fellow representatives, esteemed guests, I have the need to comment on my received response from the BiH Ministry of Security and from the Federation of BiH's Ministry of Interior. In fact, at the 14th session of this house, held on 24.11.2011, I asked a representative question: 'Are these ministries, the BiH Ministry of Security and the Federal Ministry of the Interior familiar with the disputed report by the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia regarding the alleged activities of the Wahhabi in 14 municipalities of the RS, which was presented to the public on 4 December 2011? The report states that these activities are being carried out at the border of the competent entity MUPs, so I was interested in what the BiH Federation's interior ministry's position on the allegations in this report and whether there are similar findings." I received an answer from the BiH Ministry of Security that they do not have relevant data related to the asked parliamentary question, and a similar response has arrived from the BiH Ministry of Interior who say that this ministry is not familiar with the content of the relevant report by the RS MUP, which, I quote, "as stated in the parliamentary issue concerns the action of the Wahhabi movement in the area of 14 municipalities in the RS area". They further say: 'As recently this ministry has not received any knowledge, information or report from the RS MUP, which would refer to the action of the Wahhabi movement, we are therefore unable to take a position in the report under the parliamentary issue'. This is only one of the evidence of how much information has been released that is motivated by who knows what can bring great confusion and cause great damage to the overall relations in BiH, and I personally believe that these reports of'refko and Čombe throwing bombs' should not go to the public in BiH because their effect is 13 none and their damage is huge. So, I just wanted to draw attention to these reports and in some ways appeal to all of us to take more care of what we are saying in public and how we behave, because it is evident that, in particular lately, every spoken word in BiH gets a tenfold and most often negative meaning, although it does not basically have a negative message. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8251	I would like to thank the esteemed protégé Puric. The following comment was received by Ismet Dervoz, the esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8252	Gentlemen in charge, dear colleagues and guests, I thank you. I would like to highlight my satisfaction with the answers I received from the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Culture, and the Cantonal Ministry of Education, Science and Culture at the 16th session of our home. I would like to thank Mr. Minister Damir Mašić and Ms. Minister Prof. Dr. Nadji Avdibašić Vukadinović in response to this initiative, which gives absolute hope that the situation that is currently in BiH's art and culture institutions will be speedily resolved and resolved in a way that will give these institutions the real importance and role they should play in our society. I will quote just one sentence from Mr. Mašić's letter, which says: "The initiative covers activities in the field of culture that are in the portfolio of the Federal Ministry of Culture and Sports. The resolution ministry will therefore present an official position on this matter." I would also like to announce that I will comply with Article 150. The Rules of Procedures initiate a debate in this House on the state of the institutions in the field of art and culture at the level of BiH, and I hope that we, distinguished colleagues, will support our contribution and our declaration as quickly as possible to address this problem, which in any case is far-reaching to us as we do to Parliament if we do not report on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8253	I'd like to thank the esteemed representative Dervoz. I see here a comment application for Mladen Ivaković Lijanović, but I do not have one among the questions that have been delivered. What is it, is this application for a new parliamentary question or commentary received?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8254	So, I warmly welcome you all. It is that I have not yet received an answer to the question raised on 10.11. at the Parliamentary Assembly, here for three months, and this is the question: "Will BiH meet the conditions for exporting products of animal and plant origin until Croatia enters the EU?" It is clear to all of us that Croatia has already decided with a referendum and is becoming a member for sure and for three months I have not received an answer to the question asked, so I think it is high time. I should also warn the Council of Ministers to deliver it as soon as possible, because then I can act as a representative in the 14 state parliament if this will not be met to help, because it is very important for the citizens of BiH, that is, all people who deal with this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8255	I thank the esteemed representative Mladen Ivaković Lijanović. However, since this is not a comment on the answer received, can we treat this, Mr. MP, as a repeat question or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8256	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8257	Okay. So we conclude our comments on the answers delivered and move on to b) New parliamentary issues Here you go. The first to ask a question came from a respected representative, Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question is to the High Court and Prosecutorial Council. Clearly, more and more of these issues have been raised lately. Here I see today in the comments no one is satisfied and we are all asking new questions. My question is: 'How is it possible for the decisions of Judges Strahinja Čurković from Banja Luka Municipality of Prnjavor to have three presidents' salaries at the same time? How is it possible that the same judge is acting in all cases from Prnjavor? And how does the High Court and Prosecutorial Council see a way out of this situation?" The decisions of an independent judiciary have obviously led to interference in uncut political relations and we have one paradoxical situation in Prnjavor that the decisions of the courts at the same time pay the three presidents of Prnjavor Municipality. One appointed by the councilmen and two appointed by the court. Citizens wonder if there is a possibility of not spending money on the next elections, that candidate lists are submitted to the courts and that judges are running for elections, because it is obvious that courts have entered a sphere that has not been acceptable since the world is both centuries and democracy. The committees elected the President of the Assembly in accordance with their procedures, and, most tragically, people don't know how to get out of this situation now, so we're looking for advice on how to get out of this situation, because people want to respect the decisions of the courts, but when they try in practice to implement the court's decision, it's impossible, except to invent some kind of college like here, or I don't know anything like that, how to solve it. And I expect an answer. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8260	I thank the esteemed representative Kalabić. The next question was asked by distinguished MP Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I apologize for not being in the last session, I was sick. ... I set up an unusual parliamentary initiative that is related to our daily lives. In all the world, especially in countries with democratic arrangements, what is commonly called the right of the house threshold is highly protected. It is also called a real home hearth in us in the Balkans. In the country of BiH, these situations are sometimes very difficult, there is a terrible threat to this so-called. Houserights, so rights to a private apartment or a family house, a property, where we even have so much brutality that sometimes we too who have learned this brutality through those unfortunate years of war. So, the right to protect the home hearth, the doorstep, the apartment and the private property of this initiative, which is addressed to the BiH Parliament, and if Bog gives the new Council of Ministers of BiH -- to consider it a little bit. To strengthen criminal sanctions for endangering this fundamental human right, for me very important and very important to us as a patriarchal society in which we greatly appreciate our families and, of course, our own doorstep. In many countries of the world, I will not refer to those where it is extremism such as certain federal states in the United States where, if you step into a private property, uninvited, I can defend it with weapons without asking you who you are and what you are. So no, thank Bog, we won't go that far, but I think that strengthening criminal sanctions for the deterioration of this fundamental right should be stronger and that also owners, so those who defend this domestic right, have a little more right to defend it, to be fair, because, believe me, many are rights in this country and are in grave danger, a little talk about them and this is one of the fundamental human rights. I would really like this initiative of mine, which I deliver in writing, to consider a little bit. Here, I just took it down a little bit, I didn't read it, I asked a colleague, because technically I can't, but I think we got along. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8262	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Bašić. The following came the distinguished representative Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8263	Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I have a few questions about the indirect taxation administration, and before asking questions, I will use that as well as suggest that some answers go a little faster, because I couldn't, I didn't get an answer to a few of my questions. First, my question: 16 'In what way, by which legal basis and how many persons have the directors of the Directorate for Direct Taxation employed in the period 2004-2011 and March 2011 to date contrary to the applicable Internal Organisation and Work Systematization Regulation?' Second question: ‘What is the legal basis for which, and for what reasons, the director of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, does often, and in my opinion without reason, besides the consent of the superior, the transfer of employees, causing possible damage to the organisation of teamwork, and is this the way the director works?’ The third question: ‘Is it also what measures of the BiH Ministry of Justice – The Administrative Inspectorate at the state level has taken against the Director and responsible persons in the Directorate for indirect taxation for illegal employment in this institution and because they have not implemented the order of the Administrative Inspectorate of 21.2.2011 which has been ordered to comply with the Internal Organisation Regulation, the Law on Ministrys and Other Authorities and the Law on the Indirect Taxation System within the eight months, and why has the Administrative Inspectorate given only the order for the harmonisation of the Internal Organisation Regulation with the Administration Act, the Law on Ministrys and other bodies of the Administration and the Law on the Indirect Taxation System in the circumstances of possible violations of the legal provisions not taking other measures?’ I have an explanation here, but I will deliver it in writing, to allow other colleagues to ask questions. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8264	I thank the esteemed representative, Fazlić. The next one came from a respected representative, Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8265	I have one initiative and one parliamentary question. The initiative concerns international contracts signed by BiH. I will remind you that at each session of the Representative or the House of Nations, a large number of international agreements are being adopted. It's our place to gather them together, to vote for them, and that's where everything we know about them ends. I'll remind you it's under Article 30. The law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts since 30.11.2000 obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to notify the BiH Presidency and the Parliamentary Assembly of the execution of international contracts at least once a year. Since the Council of Ministers has never fulfilled that obligation so far, the Parliamentary Assembly has no information on the existing bilateral agreements, especially those that BiH is taking over credit and other financial commitments. Accordingly, I launch the following initiative: '1. That the Council of Ministers of BiH approaches the development of comprehensive analyses of all the signed and conflicted international agreements concluded by BiH; 2. To provide the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the BiH Presidency with a review of all existing bilateral agreements with the above basic elements of the contract; 17 3. To provide the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the BiH Presidency with information on international contracts signed or taken over after the succession of BiH, which the authorities of the state administration found to be the execution or execution problems in accordance with Article 27 of that act." I only remind you that the media recently announced that BiH has concluded 4,000 international agreements with countries of which the good part has never come to life. I'll remind you just for some: co-operation with Džibuti and Etiopija predicts co-operation in scientific areas and with Palestine using nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. With Afghanistan, BiH signed 16 contracts in the area of economic, cultural and scientific co-operation of air traffic... and trade co-operation. She signed six agreements with Bangladeš concerning information activities. With Ethiopia, we have eight agreements relating to the field of science, education, and with the State of the Small Payment Agreement, etc., etc. So it's really not good to just be passive handlifters in giving consent to ratification, it's good to know what's going on... international agreements. It's an initiative. And the issue is addressed to the Foreign Investment Promotion Agency (FIPA) and contains very specific questions: 'What legal provisions have the Foreign Investment Support Fund in BiH been established on? How much has the funds for this purpose been granted so far per year? What companies have all received from the Fund for 2010 amounting to 1,887,000? Please specify the name of the firm and the value of the funds allocated by companies and the purpose of the assets. Does FIPA have a business strategy and action plan? What does the Agency’s management intend to do to streamline costs primarily to the reduction of the number of FIPA Management Board members through the amendment of the law and the reduction of lease costs of 250,000 marks in 2010?’ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8266	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Majkić. The following has been reported by distinguished MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8267	I only have one question, it's for the Council of Ministers' agent at the European Court of Human Rights. The question is, at what stage is Dr. Ilijas Pilav's appeal to the European Court of Human Rights for the inability to run for the BiH presidency because of the fact that he was a candidate for the BiH presidency of the Bosniak people and that his place of residence, or residence in the RS, is? For all necessary additional information, I am available. The answer may help this committee implement the verdicts of Sejdiu and Finc." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8268	I thank the esteemed representative, Belkić. The following came the honorary representative Lazar Prodanović. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8269	Mr. Vice-President, Honorable Ministers and colleagues, my question is addressed to the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees and it says: 'What is the number at the end of 2011... of refugees and displaced persons located in collective centres in BiH? What do the Ministry, the Return Fund, and the entity ministries of refugees and displaced persons plan to bring this tragedy to an end in terms of resolving their housing issue?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8270	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8271	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have two questions for the Federation of BiH government. First: 'Is the allocation of funds made... for 2011 and if so?' And secondly: 'What is the national structure of the public enterprises where the government of the Federation is supervised and managed by the government, which refers to the Elektroprivreda BiH, Elektroprivred HZHB, BH Telecom and Croatian Telecommunications Mostar?' Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8272	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8273	Mr. President, I have a few, six questions for the Committee on the Conservation of National Monuments. I received an answer from the Committee to the parliamentary question, but that answer enabled me to actually draw certain conclusions but also produced some ambiguities and new questions that I will ask this time. It is obvious that the decision to declare the turkey mosque did not enable the national monument: a) reconstruction of the urban unit, nor b) restoration of the electoral function. It is equally obvious that the restoration of a religious facility itself, although in the existing gauges in line with the urban plan of the city of Livna, was never questioned, which is evident from all relevant spatial-plane documents of the municipality. 19 Given this, it is impossible to avoid the conclusion that this decision has allowed only two things, which would otherwise not be possible: a significant increase in the gauge of the facility and the addition of the existing religious new function... It is clear that both of these new moments are created by a decision completely outside of the spirit and letters of Annex VIII. The Dayton Peace Agreement. Offered to the above, and in order to eliminate the cause of the misunderstanding, I ask the following questions: '1. Is it true that the removal of the mosque was carried out by the owner of the Medzlis ZA Livno facility after your letter of 12 September 2003, which stated that, I quote, the facility would be treated as a national monument until the Commission's final decision was made in accordance with Articles 5 and 6. Annex VIII.? 2. Did the owner, although warned, violate the Commission's decision-making law? 3. Could this removal have been due to the fact that, I quote your answer, the commission in the process of preparing the decision could have recorded only the place and remains of the old harem with the aim? 4. As a result, has it become possible to decide as to how, again, I quote, the construction of a mosque facility in a modern architectural term as well as interpolating new contents in accordance with the needs of the owner of the facility, a closed quote, I suppose, as a reward to the owner for his violation of the law? 5. Wasn't it the primary task of the applicant, the Centre for Islamic Architecture in Sarajevo, to provide the necessary evidence of the facility as the required national monument, then the other institutions in charge of caring for cultural monuments, and then the Municipality? And finally six. Are you aware that by meeting the business wishes of individuals from the IC you have also come out of the mandate set by aneks vi, you have endangered certain essential rights defined by the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and I believe that, frankly, you have unwittingly created assumptions that otherwise almost exemplary international relations become complicated and disruptive?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8274	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8275	Thank you, Your Honor. Lately, information has been available in the media that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been unlawfully destroying the archives, confidential. There was also a statement by the deputy minister, Mrs Trišić. So my question was addressed to the Council of Ministers: "Is it true that inside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs confidential documentation is being destroyed beyond the legal rules?"
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8276	Thank you. 20 Dear Ambassador Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8277	I have one parliamentary initiative and one parliamentary question. The initiative concerns the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Federation, the Government of the RS, the Brcko District, and the Cantonal Government with regard to the animation of the largest... unemployed population for the launch of an independent business with the reasons I have cited, as well as the parliamentary issue for BiH Civil Aviation Directorate regarding the response I received from the Ministry of Transport and Communications related to Mostar and Tuzla airports.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8278	I thank you and the last to be reported is Honorable Ambassador Nermin Purić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8279	Thank you. I ask my question to the Directorate for Direct Taxation of BiH, with a trail of information that the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Authority has made a decision on the destruction of 2,000 vehicles located at the Administration of Indirect Taxation warehouses, which have been seized for customs offences on imports. According to the report, the value of these vehicles is estimated at 10 million KM, and the administration will receive around 2 million marks by selling them. I ask the question: 'Is it possible that none of these vehicles can be used and assigned to any humanitarian organisation or social institution in BiH? How transparent is this process, and can the Indirect Taxation Authority guarantee that these vehicles will indeed be destroyed, as they say, and that they will not be reunited with some other papers and chess numbers on the roads in BiH? Please respond in writing." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8280	Thank you. I'm closing this agenda item. We're going to the third point, Ad. 3. The request of MP Niko Lozančić to consider the draft law supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure 21 I would like to remind you that this law, by emergency procedure, has been delivered in parliamentary procedure by Ambassador Niko Lozančić in 19.1.2012 in accordance with Article 127. I'm opening a debate. Here you go. Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8282	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, members of the Council of Ministers, here you have today a very short bill, a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in BiH institutions. This is a proposal made by the Interresor Working Group, which works on amendments to several laws, is unanimous... a proposal. I've accepted to be a formal promoter in front of this house. It is the situation that the existing Law on conflict of interest in the provisions of the article which is amended deals with the issue of membership in the assembly, in public and private enterprises, from the aspect of the conflict of interest of elected officials and holders of executive functions. The abovementioned articles of this Act specify that all members of the assembly are members of a public and private company in conflict of interest, taking into account the number of those who are members of the Assembly under these entity laws. We have a fact that thousands or tens of thousands of BiH citizens are formally in conflict of interest. Here, on an initiative of the Election Commission which this law, this provision, simply cannot implement in practice, the Interresor Working Group has accepted to go hastily to amend this article of the Law, and here today you will have an Interresor Group report, so you will see that there are also more complete amendments to these laws being planned. I call upon you to accept, firstly, a request for an emergency procedure and to support this proposal to amend and supplement this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8283	Thank you. Next up for discussion, honourable MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8284	Here, I'll do it very briefly. So, I don't doubt the Interresor Group's justifications and motives for these changes in an emergency procedure, but it seems we're going to have a situation that we're going to get individual initiatives on the spoon, or that we're going to get some information here today, we have one information about the Electoral Law, and I'm afraid that this way we're not going to come up with a quality solution for this set of laws. I don't know what it is, surely it's an emergency, there are even more urgent things to change in these laws, but I'm afraid if we continue this way, if this practice continues to go from case to case Interresor Group instead of finishing the job and proposing complete changes and supplementing these three laws so we don't get into one confusion and then very difficult to deal with. But here, I'm trying to understand that this is the most urgent thing, so we don't mind. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8285	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8286	Thank you. I also studied the documentation, namely Mr. Niko Lozančić's proposal. I think that what as a knowledgeer of the Law on Economic Society, the Law on Conflict of Interest, the regulations of the countries of the region – we are really in a situation where we have the strictest regulation when it comes to governance and membership in companies. As for the congregation membership, the Law on Business Society says that he is a member of the congregation. But we here in this proposal say that we can have up to 1%, and myself personally as a man who I've worked on the stock market and managed securities transfers, I'm interested in which law, which provision we respect, is 1%. None of the countries in the region have that definition, but they say up to 25%. I do not want (but how to define the state) to say member, elected official or official or one who is thought to be already in conflict of interest that he may be a member of the assembly but up to 1%. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] ...it's not, but who's going to, in which way... and every year of nominal value, there's going to be a number of shares, etc. ...it needs someone to check it out. I think it should be said whether he can be a member or not. But I believe that we must be at least in that part of a similar country of the region and say that it can be a member of the congregation but it cannot participate and cannot work, but it must pass on and cannot dictate the work of the congregation, but it can ask that authority to report it to the state, because it is his capital. And I think that... I would really support a colleague of Beriz Belkić there that, in my opinion, is not very urgent, but it really needs to wait for this to happen and bring one real solution to this area, because I think we all meet or we can have problems, because I think there will be a problem about respecting one or another law. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8288	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8289	Thank you. I will agree with my colleagues that this is certainly not the law that is most urgent in this country, there must be many more. However, we are working on a set of laws, meaning the Electoral Law, the Law on Conflict of Interest, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, entered a certain stage of more complete amendments to 23 of these laws, which I say again, you will see today through a report that will be presented to you in the framework of today's session. The evaluation of the Interresor Working Group is – and respecting the initiatives, respecting the reasons we have heard from the members of the Election Commission – that it should be quickly amended this article because the Election Commission has a situation that it cannot implement the law. So he can't enforce the law. Under the existing law, you have tens of thousands of BiH citizens who have 0.0.0.1 promilences that are members of the assembly by entity laws and by being members of the assembly by entity, because whoever has one share is a member of the assembly, he is in conflict of interest. Well, according to our law, which I agree with you, Mr. Jagodić, that he is absolutely rigid, and that attitude I will make when we enter into more complete changes to this law. I appreciate it means it would be necessary to allow the Election Commission to implement the laws that have given it jurisdiction. ...and the people of the Electoral Commission are to be this one percent. It was a debate whether to be a higher percentage of shares, I mean personally, but this is a consensus, this is an arrangement within the Interresor Working Group and I present it as an Interresor Working Group arrangement. I also think that a lot of other things should be changed in this law, but about when it comes to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8290	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) – a delayed statement at the 19th session of the House, held on 19.1.2012 I remind you that at the 19th session, held in 19.1.2012, we adopted a conclusion on the postponement of the plea on the bill. Today, we declare this law in another reading, and there is no debate here unless there is some new moment that I am not familiar with. And... point five. Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the residence and residence of BiH citizens, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) – Delayed Statement at the 19th session of the House, held on 19.1.2012
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8294	It is not the Commission, until the Council of Ministers and the fact that the Council of Ministers is in the technical mandate. From the moment of appointment of the new Council of Ministers chairman, that is the definition of him by law (not sitting or not making a statement), so we have no other option but to wait for him to declare the amendments and after that we will make a decision. I suggest we support this position of the College to extend this deadline. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8295	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Infringements, Proposer: Council of Ministers (second reading) At the 19th session of the House, held on 19.1., the bill was adopted in the first reading. The Constitutional Commission delivered Opinion 31.1.2012. There are no amendments to this law. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. 25 And we go to the eighth point of the agenda: Ad. 8. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on the Proposal for a Law on the State Aid System in BiH, the Proposer: Council of Ministers (first reading) – a delayed statement at the 19th session of the House, held on 19.1.2012
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8299	I just want to say a few words about this law. After the adoption of the Internal Audit Act in BiH institutions, which was adopted long ago in 2008, this proposal for a Law amending the Internal Audit Act creates preconditions for the rational establishment of an internal audit in BiH institutions. We know that we are always afraid of too many new institutions, but this law has shown how well to be resolved and rationally solved. Thus, this rationality implies that not an unnecessarily large number of units or departments of internal audit are formed, but that, as defined in Article 1 of this Law, it is possible to cover BiH institutions with an internal audit with a minimum number of people and units, i.e. departments. Accordingly, I suggest that the House of Representatives uphold the principles of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8300	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. 26 We move to the 10th point of the agenda: Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions, Proposer: Council of Ministers (first reading) The BiH Council of Ministers submitted the draft law to the parliamentary procedure in 11.1.2012. In 26.1.2012, the Financial and Budget Commission submitted its opinion on the principles of the Bill's proposal, and the Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its Opinion on the constitutional basis of the Bill's proposal in 31.1.2012. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8302	So this law should also be said by a team before it has caused a little more controversy than the previous one. What exactly is his basic advantage? It is that the existing law on the financing of BiH institutions does not define the area of financial governance and control in BiH institutions. Now here's a chance for what we've had for years to comment on how institutions behave, here's a chance to fix it. So that's also the most significant reason to pass this law. So, legal regulation of financial management and control areas in BiH institutions. The second reason the proposal also considers justified is to align with the acquis, hence the EU acquis as well as international standards in this area. Third, the obligations and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which strengthens the governance and control functions in the area of public finances. I remind the House of Representatives that the Council of Ministers adopted a strategy for conducting internal financial control in BiH institutions and the Action Plan in 2010. The two documents are also a confirmation of BiH for the establishment of modern financial governance and control, functionally independent internal audit and the establishment of a central harmonisation unit. What I'm trying to say is that there's a newspaper here that introduces a risk management obligation that can threaten the achievement of the organisation's goals. We know what our situation is in the institutions and we are thinking of a new quality that will help... to seduce financial discipline in BiH institutions. There is one dispute which, in some minor form, I say is a dispute, because the BiH institutions' audit office has submitted its position on the inclusion of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office in the text of the Law on Finance of BiH institutions derivating the principle of independence of the Office for Audit. And that's not a good attitude. Therefore, the Office for Audits notes the new Article 22(3), which reads as follows: 'The head of the institution shall be deemed not to fulfil the objectives of the institution when the Office for the Review of BiH institutions gives a negative opinion on the annual report on the implementation of the budget of the institutions or when the competent court confirms the indictment against the managers for irregularities and fraud for which the manager was responsible in the institution.' 27 Because the Office for Audits has made such an unequivocal point of view, I believe that the Commission for Finance and Budget and the House of Representatives cannot disobey this and I propose one conclusion: - The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly requires the Commission for Finance and Budget to analyse the letter of the Office for Audit and propose concrete amendments to the Amendment and Completion Act of the Law on the Financing of BiH institutions, in order to prevent intrusion into the principle of independence and specificity of the Office for Audit, which is in this law... So that, together with the Office for Audition, with the proposal of the Ministry of Finance, would create a bridge and get us to stay out of the independence of the audit and still get to this law that means a lot to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8303	Thank you. Please submit that conclusion in writing, so that we can make clear when the voting time comes. The next one for discussion is Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8304	Mr. Chairman, I would like to say something about Article 3(3) of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, which reads: 'In the event that the Office for the Review of the BiH Institutions in accordance with the standards of reporting in the public sector audits, that a negative opinion on the annual report on the implementation of the institution's budget and the competent court confirms the indictment against the managers for whom the manager was responsible in the institution, the Head of the institution will place his mandate to carry out his duties at the disposal of the body that appointed him, in accordance with the rules on appointment, no later than 30 days from the date of the official publication of the report on the audit of the institution, which has been published by the Office for the audit of BiH institutions, i.e. from the date of confirmation of the indictment against the institution managers'. What I want to stress is that binding the shift responsible for the negative opinion of the auditor is not good for several reasons. First of all, negative opinions are rare. The auditors hardly say them at all or less. If I'm right, in 2008 and 2010, we didn't have any. Thus, all those who have opinions with a reserve or with an emphasis on the case would be amnesty, where business irregularities have been observed. My proposal, which is an integral part of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Audit of BiH Institutions, which is in the parliamentary procedure, is much better because sanctions are linked to a negative finding which is a fact, which is documented and does not depend on the assessment of auditors. That's what the auditors are sure to record. This proposal will be contained in Article 16a) which is a new proposed member who refers to the corrective actions of Parliament and therefore draws attention to this member of the proposed law, which will be in the procedure and please support it as such. Secondly, the confirmation of the indictments is also very rare. I wouldn't go in there for reasons. Maybe the audit reports don't offer enough material to launch the indictment, maybe 28 independence of the prosecution has been violated. Most of the time, they would hardly be replaced, so the proposal from that perspective, if I could use heavy terminology, nakaradam and have no results. Thirdly, the independence of the auditor would be undermined because the shifts of the managers would be directly linked to the assessment of the auditors. The auditors would then further calculate their opinion. The assumption is that they would also ease their attitudes. Mr. Šego has repeated some of the views expressed earlier in his statements these days. He said, quote, "This legal solution would be terrible... for auditors, whether they give a negative opinion or not, the conclusion of the quote. It may be necessary to open the issue and debate in the Parliamentary Assembly – who is pressuring the auditors or whom Mr Šego expects to put pressure on. Regardless of the claims made, we've never heard of it from the auditor before. Is it a party, is it an individual or an institution? Is the pressure on review speculation to escape the responsibility of auditors or pressures really exist, which, if confirmed as such, would be an additional, new, major scandal in our country's functioning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8305	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 11th point of the agenda: Ad. 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, with the opinion of the Commission on Finance and Budget, Proposer: Parliament of Aleksandra PandureviPandurević Dear MP Aleksandra Pandurević submitted the draft law to the parliamentary procedure on 14.11.2011. The Constitutional Commission of 6.12. delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis. The European Integration Directorate, 12.12., delivered its opinion on the compliance of the draft law with the acquis. The financial and budgetary committee responsible delivered its opinion on the principles of the proposal for a law in 26.1.2012. The Commission did not support the principles of the bill. I am opening a debate on the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission. Here you go. As far as I can tell, there are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 12th point, Ad. 12. Report on the work on amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law with the aim of implementing the BiH Constitutional Court Decision No. At 9/09 – Mostar City (the Interresor Working Group material for preparing amendments and additions to the BiH Election Law, the Law on the Financing of Political Parties and the Law on Conflict of Interest in BiH Authorities 29
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8309	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we have received a significant document here. We waited a long time for him and he was the theme of many meetings of the House of Representatives: the way BiH institutions behave when it comes to renting a business space. This is so-called. the audit of the value of the money. We have seen how we behave and how much money we give for something that in no way can the BiH institutions influence, or matter that no one has dealt with. So, the free will of individuals at the head of BiH institutions was left to decide whether to choose the most representative space in the city center, whether to choose a space that does not correspond to the real number of employees, but to create a employment policy... and these two things we have seen rarely meet and we have been given the opportunity to force our voice to force those whose job it is to create a strategy for resolving, finally resolving this issue. 30 What did the review say to this impact review? She said: you have a huge space for which you give great money that is absolutely unsettled. There is no strategy to resolve accommodation. There are no criteria and guidelines for the realization of the leases, I mean by the executive government, so from the Council of Ministers. You have different behaviours from the institution to the institution, from the aspect of the number of squares per rent, the representativeness of the space to be leased, the price of meters square, near the city or the distance from the city centre and the question of other contents. Systematic resolution of this process, better organisation and regulation of procedures, would create savings for... significant savings in the budget. The impact review covered the famous three es, economics, efficiency and efficiency. And clearly underlined where she was hiding. Also, the revision reminded us that taxpayers, investors, legislative bodies, the media, but the whole citizen gets a picture of the results of the executive government's work in such a way as to confirm the findings of the audit. Furthermore, the Office for Audits gave us both short-term and system recommendations for improving these procedures and said that the findings were such as to lease on a longer term, meaning longer deadlines that are more favourable, from a lower price point of view, and yet 58 of the institutions surveyed contracted leases from one year to 16 institutions in two years. Everyone else, so at the moment they conclude, so they negotiate the smallest, shortest deadline and reach the highest price. Under two, the non-transparent lease process; although the Public Procurement Act does not imply the obligation that the lease must also go according to the Public Procurement Act, it is clear that if it were, that this process, if it were to be made public, that we would certainly have a run with offers who would offer better conditions. In this way, 66 institutions surveyed are leased through informal testing. Therefore, directors or managers of institutions agree in four eyes on the surface, the price and everything else. The area per meter of square is really amazing. From 6 to 12 square meters has been leased into 21% of institutions. From 13 to 18 square meters per employee 39 institutions. From 19 to 30 meters square 32% of institutions. Over 30 meters of square 8 institutions. Unbelievable. It should be pointed out that the number of squares of leases is sought on the basis of a projected, therefore systematicized records, not on the basis of a really employed number of workers. As for the choice of location, the city center in Sarajevo, for example, zone 1, the price is from 19 to 39 marks, zone 2 is from 13 to 39, and zone 3 is from 9 to 17. I remind you that 60% of institutions use zone one, so the price between 19 and 39 marks. Finally, the audit says what savings are possible and says: If each institution lowers the lease price by just one mark, the savings would be 200,000. If each institution would reduce the leased area per employee by only one meter squared, that would be 160,000. Imagine two such insignificant numbers of savings would be nearly 400,000. And what does the review say in the end, what are the projections? In fact, for institutions with less employees, the optimal price would be 12m square meters per employee, for institutions with more than 8m employees per employee, thus renting space to BiH institutions from the current 15m. I propose that we certainly support this impact review and, in particular, the conclusions made by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8310	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Emir Kabil. Here you go. 31
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8311	Dear President, dear colleagues, I think this is one unique point in which all the people in the Finance and Budget Committee have agreed. Namely, this is one of the most complete and best reports that I have ever been able to read from the Office of Audit, which is very systematic and quality, and has brought all relevant data on enormous, unquality and irrational spending in all agencies, or the institutions of this country, when you read this report, which each of the Members needs to receive and analyse, and see how many gaps are in our budget and how many irresponsibility and improvisation exists in the same. And that's why I wouldn't be talking about these details that Majkić, the space, the square, the price of the lease, where I think is enormously high price. In the conversation, we came up with data that some agencies, some institutions charge more than 30 marks per square metre. If you know that the state pays that, it's entormously high prices, given the market and the market situation. I believe that the two conclusions that we have offered you here need to be the essence of all our activities, which is that the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly requires and orders the BiH Council of Ministers to implement literally all those recommendations recommended by the Audit Office. And more importantly, to finally try to respect some dead bodies, a date to which they must be realized and systematized. Otherwise, I fear that if we do not achieve what is obvious and where there is an absolute consensus of all the members of the Commission, and I am sure of all the MPs, I think there will be one very high-quality and important message for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8312	Thank you. Next for the discussion is Honourable MEP Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8313	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, here I am going to be part of the discussion for a while. I had the opportunity to discuss in greater detail both at the Finance and Budget Commission and what the debaters have brought forward so far, we all agreed in one way that the funds, the state funds, which the taxpayers provide, are being spent in an irrational way. I think that, above all, we should commend the Office for the review that has fantastically done this document, that is to say, carried out an impact review and pointed out all possible details and failures and consequences that have been encountered by these institutions. I'm just going to mention some things, which is completely illogical to me. For example. Parking, parking means 518,000 marks. It's an extremely large number. Imagine 518,000 went only to the parking lot, of which here is some Veterinary Office 14,000 or Regulatory Agency 42,000 on an annual basis. This speaks of just one freedom of the chosen persons, i.e. appointed persons, that they can fully negotiate both the price and the space and the vehicles, etc., without having any factual responsibilities. And yet for all of this, certain criteria should be done and defined by the regulation who and how much space he can have, or how much he needs. What the distinguished colleague Majkić said, it is unacceptable that you have a range in the offices by squares, where people are looking for space based on systematicization, and the systemization is filled with about 20%. And it's normal for a single employee to move from 5 to 57 square meters. That's 32 really crossed all the lines, from 5 to 57 is a range for one employee. Also, it is unacceptable that the range in prices is between about 8,70 or 9 marks to 40. The same institution seems to me to have been paid in Kaknja for 5 marks, in Orash 6-7 etc., and in Sarajevo it is 20. I have reported on this only to support the full conclusions of the Committee on Audit, the Commission on Audit and the Commission on Budget and Finance, but with another proposal: that institutions, I see no reason why institutions must be located in the centre itself, I do not, I do not understand. And since the state is the best payer and logically it is then that prices can be formed in such a way, I suggest that the Council of Ministers make criteria and regulations by which they determine the level to which the price can go per square metre and determine the number of squares per employee. This would make certain institutions not in the centre, but to go to places where prices are much cheaper and thus save significant resources. For these reasons, I think that, in any case, the price should be determined and the number of squares should be determined. That'll make a lot of savings. They merely cited on one small example some 200-300 thousand savings, and imagine that they were reduced and valued something more significant. Why, once again, do not there have to be institutions in the centre and have to be in Sarajevo alone?- I'm sorry. This can also be dislocated in other places in BiH, where one of these institutions will be eager to come, and the possibility of communication is in a perfectly good condition, that it can be done quickly and efficiently, because modern technology and technology allows it. I therefore see no reason why both Parliament and the Council of Ministers should be close to each other as certain institutions and agencies. That is why I am to establish the correct criteria and to say how much one employee square can have and how much will be the price that is allowed to be agreed upon by the institution. And I fully support, once again, all the commendations for well done and quality material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8314	Thank you. Just one little message to the MPs. Namely, you all got calls to form a group of friendships at 1400 hours, so we'll take a break between 14:00 and 15:30, and it's at 15.00 and the Joint College. Next up for discussion is Honourable Ambassador Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8315	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, I am pleased that today is on the agenda and this item of the agenda, meaning correction in the Report of the Office for the Review of BiH institutions on the subject "The Management of the Cost of Employment and Accommodation of BiH Institutions". I certainly won't say much new to colleagues who have discussed it, but here, when I have already answered the word, I must first commend the meaning of the Office of Audit, Mr Šega, which has made such a concise report which can be clear, not only to every MP who sits here in the Parliamentary Assembly but also to every citizen of BiH. In addition to this, the initiatives that prompted not only me at the previous meetings of the Parliamentary Assembly but also other colleagues speak. Well, here's the initiative I set up in some 33 ways, I'm glad that Parliament adopted in the last session, where we wanted to, meaning the point of this initiative was to see exactly who it was and how it agreed to pay for space, because I said a very clear example where the institutions of the BiH State and the Federation pay for the premises, I don't know, by 25 marks in the 2nd zone, and these same owners of the area offer 15 marks in that area, which means that those who signed the premises or had a personal interest, and I'm sure that, we're dealing with, we're people, we're doing private jobs, so when we need to rent space, we're really looking at what the price is, so the location plays a role anyway, because here these spaces are beautifully presented by the areas of how much space we're in the zone, but we're looking to get the best price when we're concerned. So those who negotiated these prices were looking to contract prices at any rate at the expense of the state. And these are all people, so I said both directors and administrators and management presidents, the commission, BiH institutions, means that, in my opinion, the unconscious work outside the framework of the law has caused damage to BiH and are being misbehaved. That's why I said it, and you saw the last time that the colleagues were MPs, and we had a review report when I made clear that we don't even know today how many employees we have in the BiH institutions, because every question or question asked for the same institution every time we get a different number of employees, which states there's a lot of irregularities in all these institutions. And my proposal is not only to say today that we are adopting but to praise this report, I see that it overcomes such a general opinion, it is my proposal, and here there is an initiative and a colleague: that this Parliament is really holding a thematic session on each and it is having a thorough fun, because I am convinced that if we give clear recommendations, I will not say orders, but clearly here we should give orders to those irresponsible that they must behave in accordance with the law and that I must guarantee you that in the budget of the BiH state we will save significant resources that we can use to promote both the state and the institutions of BiH. Here, I'm still saddened by one fact when we say that the Office of Audition, headed by Mr. Šega, makes recommendations to these institutions of the state. Here we look, and when we choose people, we choose all of the great people, quality people, educated, I don't know, economists, professors of macro-economy, etc. Those macro-economics should be conducted in their private companies, and in this way in state institutions I recommend that they not carry out such a macro-economy, but Parliament and this House of Representatives, in my opinion, need to react urgently, because let's go from ourselves, let's go from ourselves, 9 million marks and give something to the apartments of the military here. You should. Military people need apartments. So in four years or ten years we give 90 million marks in 10 years. So let's build this country, so let's go buy in five years, for 45 million marks of apartments to buy. Every investor, every bank, here the state is a desirable partner, a desirable partner, a secure payer within the legal deadlines, that's how we're going to think. Here, my suggestion is to come from this Parliament to all the initiatives that we're going to fix this, not to let us know today, discuss this, and then, tomorrow and the day after, and in a month, either way. Here, I think this is in some way also for the Parliament's College to consider forming within Parliament and commission, not to inform the commission not to solve anything, but to deal with this problem, because here we have clear facts and corpus delicti and our obligation to the citizens of BiH is to do maximum savings where we can work, to act rationally and responsibly towards BiH's budgets.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8316	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go, Dušanka. 34
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8317	I'll just have two things. The first one's about military housing. The audit has made a mistake, indeed. She unnecessarily introduced military apartments for the accommodation of soldiers, officers and officers. Absolutely an item that is unnecessarily standing here. It's not about hiring an institution's business space. So it's a stray item, so in that part of it it needs to be shut down, because we have apartments, then everyone who uses housing should be shown there. Why should we be just soldiers, officers and officers, why not us? So, unnecessarily that item. As far as the second paragraph is concerned, that we organise a session of both homes at which we would discuss it, the Finance Commission and the budget have made two conclusions forcing the executive authority to do what it is required to do. Parliament has made so much that it has mastered matter, seen matter and made conclusions that will provide it. And no benefit from a public debate where we would realize that this one spends this much, that much. And in the end, we'd be back in position if we had to make conclusions. So it doesn't make sense. I think these two conclusions of the Finance and Budget Commission provide all that is needed to improve this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8318	The reply to the replica has a distinguished MP, Zvonko Jurišić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8319	Well, I had no intention of what my colleague Majkić was saying, and I only mentioned it. So not now to say military apartments, because it's a fact and a lease of space that's 4.5 million or almost 5 million marks, I thought of everything in general. It doesn't have to be here, nor do we have to bring it in, so there's a way for each of these representatives of these directors and others to explain to us what it is and how it is. So this committee, so here the conclusions absolutely, means executive power, but that we also have feedback on what is on it, whether, and that perhaps this parliament should have done the job to praise them, reprove them, punish them already. So either way, we have to solve the problem, and the way we're going to solve it is less important.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8320	Thank you. Dear Member Danijela Martinović for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8321	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. So first, I would like to commend the Office for this impact review report. We have a very high-quality impact review, which gave us a thorough and detailed picture of the situation when it comes to buying space. So I would basically agree with the predecessors and not repeat what my predecessors said, or I would not go into the analysis of certain information. We all read the above mentioned material and saw a series of recommendations and findings that should be our guideline in our further 35 decisions. I agree with the findings of my colleagues that the above-mentioned impact review should not only be taken into account, or adopted, but that we should also act urgently on those recommendations. So, we should be in charge of the Council of Ministers and, of course, I think primarily of the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury to urgently take measures relating to the recommendations and to the implementation of recommendations that can be made within a short period of time, and to provide us with an analysis of the activities within a month, i.e. recommendations of the activities related to the system recommendations of our Audit Office. Exactly to write us a simple one action plan, to call it, with a proposal for measures, so that those problems related to the lease can be overcome. While we are waiting for this Council of Ministers rule to regulate other types of spending, not just rent, I have been doing some research, so as this problem has been solved in neighbouring countries. Thus, the Republic of Serbia, or the Republic of Croatia, has a law on the lease and sale of business space. I know that those laws relate primarily to the lending of space that the state, or lower units, of local units, have in their possession. These lease laws could be a very important and useful guideline for us when we talk about our rules or possibly if considered, the Council of Ministers would consider the possibility of passing laws, which would indeed be systematically resolved and those issues. For example, those laws correctly set out the procedure for the negotiation and conclusion of lease agreements. So it is legally settled which elements must exist in that law. They've also solved the issue of transparency. So, let's say when it comes to the law on the lease and sale of business space in the Republic of Croatia, it is said that the lease must be given or taken on the basis of a public tender. Therefore, this allows transparency in the very procedure of giving, i.e., taking into account the lease of the business space. It is also established which authorities are the final decision-making authorities and which make a decision on an unfavourable offer. This is therefore the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Mayor and Mayor of Zagreb, etc. So, I would also refer the Council of Ministers to those laws, so that this could possibly be one of the guidelines, in addition to the regulations and certain regulations that the Council of Ministers could get, it could be a useful guideline in the systemic solution to the problem of renting premises in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8322	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8323	Thank you. In the review of the impact of renting space, we know that 65,000 square metres is now a business space in rent, of which 24 thousand DKP, where 2,700 workers are located. But what we still need to worry about, so there's another 5 grand missing, according to the Ministry of Finance's report, is that we still lack 5,000 square meters. And the Stabilisation and Association Agreement requires that these needs will be even more. And the 2005 lease of business space with 14 million came now in 2010 to 28 million KM. So, we have discussed this on the Commission, and I clearly support the Commission's proposal for two conclusions, by stressing that even here, it should be more precisely under the second point of the Commission's analysis, because I personally think and believe that strategic decisions here should be made in 36 Parliament, whether renting or buying business space. It is a strategic decision that this Parliament is about to give as a guideline to the Council of Ministers in the process of these issues and precisely in solving these two conclusions made by the Finance and Budget Committee. So in that direction, I support the conclusions that are, with that, we'll see maybe in the club later, a strategic document if we can make or tell the initiative to go shopping, that the state is going to buy business space, because I think it's going to pay off in the long run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8324	Thank you. And last reported is Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8325	Dear chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, so I just want to remind myself, in 2009, and that's all that's left in the stenogram and the record, I suggested that our finance experts, from various institutions, predict how much credit should be owed to BiH to make our own facilities, which we would pay off in a few years, if we have the numbers to rent out 28 to 30 million a year. So we could make ten buildings and pay off for three or four years and stay owned by this country, a dispersion spread all over the place. And what happened then? I say the rest of the stenogram and the record. Could we, like Parliament, Council of Ministers, be financially forced through the budget and say, "Here you are, volunteering or friendly or the Jaranese, taking business space exclusively, as Bog gives me that you are sitting in Abu Dhabi, not in Sarajevo or Banja Luka and Mostar, so it is important that one employee has 57 square meters of space, and we nine MPs sitting here in 24 square meters, nine MPs! Let them measure. Lucky we don't pay rent, and even if we did, it would cost the least. Now, those are your relationships when you let go of everything, and you have jurisdiction over everything, and you can't do anything to anyone. Well, then it wasn't what it was, and I really agree with my colleague, Majkić, it's no use, so I suggested we bring all of these in a thematic session, because we can't get them all together, but 15-20 each, and we ask them all these questions. It's what every session turns into, that I say as something, that some colleague of mine says something, stays in the record, the stenogram -- and nothing, nothing changes. And I'm saying, in 2009, when I suggested it, I assumed that there would be a wake-up administration, inventing new agencies for which no one, so you remember that I asked a rewarding question that all my colleagues here would answer how many, first, agencies we have, how many institutions we have. And if I were to ask a rewarding question where they are sitting, well, nobody knows that alive, and neither do those of our financials who give them money from the budget. And what are we discussing? Really, sometimes I wonder what we're really doing here and we're the most responsible for everything, I repeat. I really want to point out that we can't let everyone humiliate us and put us in a position that we're responsible for what we're not. Am I responsible if any of the directors of the agency made private space 7,000 marks there, I don't know, 100 square meters, am I responsible? I didn't. I don't know where that agency is, or where they're sitting, or how many of them are sitting there. So I asked for answers to all the questions. Thirty-seven and a two-way. Well colleague Tomić said, and all of these, about renting space. I ask the MP's question of the indirect tax administration for 2,000 of those cars, close by, and I get the answer: no car can be sold on auction, all wrong, everything goes into recycling. Today I hear a colleague asking a parliamentary question, I see through the media, how two million marks could be earned by selling those cars. So, guys, is there any real logic here, any sense whatsoever? If in 2009, it was a question of where the cars were still preserved, three years were still lost, and now 2 million can be earned, and then it couldn't even make stamps. And paid 450,000 marks a year for renting back to where they store those cars! And no one's answering anyone. Well, I was just saying this to keep this in the stenogram and the record, fully aware that nothing's gonna change, that SIPA's not gonna take any thieves off handcuffs, which makes these contracts, both in the Jaran and in the pub, the sprange france, you, me, you, and I don't answer to anyone, and doesn't ask for consent from anyone, fully aware that they won't be responsible for anything. And then tomorrow the title: Messengers thieves, took so many and so many. I can't really read the papers anymore. If you're listening to me, I can, of course, because I know that none of this is going to do you any good, and you're sorry to hear what I'm saying, and this is especially of no use, and what's an impact review now. I don't want to praise the audit. And what have they made a document that no one will benefit from, nor will anyone suffer the consequences? It's the essence of the whole state-functioning story of all the new authorities in pairing and all the possible marifettelus and the empty front row that I want to fill out these directors of various agencies, I don't know that I, our institutions, ask these questions to them, and not to you, distinguished colleagues. I'm sorry for the bullying, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8326	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8327	Just a little replica. My colleague Jovičić didn't deserve me to replicate something special to him, I think if he heard the last few sentences he said, himself, that he might change some of those sentences. And that's why I'm getting up to say, so this review report is a report that's going to be very useful and it's not true that this report is going to be of any use. This report should be the basis for this country to manage its institutions' business space in the future, including the lease of business space. That's why we're doing this audit. And otherwise, it wouldn't make sense to do any kind of audit, especially this impact review. This is their goal. And the responsible Council of Ministers will take a good look at this, take a good look at and manage itself in its work when it plans to use the business space in the future, i.e. the lease, and we, of course, are here in the BiH Parliament. This is a document from which we can learn a lot and take a lot of action in different directions. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8328	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić, respond to the replica. Here you go. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8329	May Bog be so, dear colleague. At the end of my term, I'm going to reply to what you just said, and I'm going to be aware that nothing happened or happened, and we all wanted to change the situation. That is why I am aware of what I have said, which is why I am aware that we have been saying this in Parliament for 10 years and that this Parliament has not changed anything. Actually, it is, I'm sorry, all the way up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8330	Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, another replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8331	Well, I won't do it to you either, Mr. Jovičić. So, it will be that way if we're the mummy here, if we sit here and don't point out, we won't talk if the Council of Ministers pushes this under the carpet. How many agenda points are there to wait for the Council of Ministers to attend, does anyone know now? How many hundred dots? If it's as it is so far, if there's no responsibility, if it isn't, then there's a complete atrophy of the system and then it's possible this, but I hope and I'm sure it won't come to that.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8332	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8333	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. I wasn't listening to this violent replica exchange, I guess it's useful. The SNSD MPs' club will support all of these previously expressed views by proposing one of the conclusions that we believe will oblige the Council of Ministers to deal permanently with the issue of institution accommodation, in line with all those recommendations and costs and unnecessary waste of money. And we'll deliver that conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8334	Thank you. There are no more applications for discussion, but there is a need for a chief auditor. Dear Mr. Milenko Šego needed to answer his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8335	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I welcome you all together. 39 Before I look briefly at this item of the agenda, I would just like to say a few sentences, if you please, about this previous discussion, given that in a certain way it is all intertwined together, so that there may be no dilemma left. Namely, by addressing the issues of responsibility, especially an important and complex question, the Law on the financing of institutions, in the way that it is proposed to the proposed amendments and additions, carries in itself, I must say, a certain number of problems and it is good that Mrs. Majkić has formulated such a conclusion and that together with us, with the Office of Audit, we are practically trying to shed light on what possible negative connotations would be produced by one such adopted law on the revision. He's carrying a lot of dilemmas. Among other things, let's say, we're discussing impact review. The impact review shall not issue an opinion of the auditor. So there's a lot of problems. Here, you all said it together and commended our report. However, if we do not have an auditor's opinion in the impact review, then, according to this conclusion, which has been formulated in this way on this bill, the question of responsibility could not be raised in this way. To say that many countries in the environment and in Europe, etc. that they do not express the opinion of the auditor for budgetary users at all. So it's based on find and recommendations, and that's what you should pay attention to. Also here would be marginalised by the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, i.e. the legislative authority, practically it would have no more purpose or purpose to discuss audit reports in this way, because as some law, it would solve the systems of automation itself. Furthermore, what would happen if, for example, a consolidated report at the level of state institutions gave one such opinion? Then, would that mean that it should automatically raise the issue of the shift of the complete Council of Ministers, all agencies, etc. There is a further question – what about the institutions of the judiciary, what about the predsjedništvo, what about the Parliamentary Assembly? So an entire set of questions that cannot be solved in this way is opened. Once again, I repeat that it is very good that one such conclusion is and that we try to shed light on it at the session of this committee. And I would ask, if possible, that there was no practice until now, obviously, and this creates a lot of problems – that the Audit Office is delivering initiatives related to changes, making or amending laws that have connotations, which have repercussions to the Office for Audit, to the financing of institutions, the Budget Law, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Salaries, because we can give useful suggestions, useful remarks, so that something is not built into a law that will later have great consequences. As for the impact review, I really thank you from the heart, speaking on my behalf and on behalf of the Office, that you supported us in this way. We need this support, given that this is a new area, a new activity, it is quite demanding, quite complex and should, in practice, not only do these recommendations be commended and supported but it should actually work now to make it practical to fix this situation, i.e. simply implement these recommendations, which practically means, and I fully agree with Mr Džaferović there, that this report should simply, given that we are a small office and small capacity, and one such report requires a long-term engagement, so that it should simply force the system institutions to define clearly and clearly the objectives and programmes in the institutions, in agencies, because we cannot revise from the aspect of impact audit and provide a public answer to the question: what I have received for money if there are no clearly defined objectives. So this is a very serious matter and accessing impact review and doing impact review, so it's a feature indeed for highly developed democratic countries, where consciousness and politics and the public are at such a level that it can gain certain effects. 40 Here, I really think that this report is quite concise, you said it yourself, I wouldn't be longer, so we should simply go into the implementation of all this is written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8336	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, did you report it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8337	Just for a moment, the chairman, it will be very important for the decision. The SNSD Club has submitted 'A proposal for a conclusion which is in charge of the Council of Ministers to comply with', I am now quoting what it says, the Commission's views on finance and budget, the views and conclusions of the House of Representatives, and the findings and recommendations of the audit to urgently resolve the issue of accommodation of joint institutions in Sarajevo, Banja Luka, that these purposes are also used as credit means, and thus save the long-term huge funds currently being leased out in a very controversial manner', closed signs of allegations and the end of quotes. I'd like to ask you to write just, don't make suggestions to each other's conclusions irritable. You know that these are not joint institutions, but that the institutions and wherever they are located in BiH, you do not have to quote both Sarajevo and Banja Luka, there are them in Mostar, there are them in Tuzla, as far as I know, in East Sarajevo, and in Doboj. So BiH institutions wherever. Fix this so we can vote for this, otherwise we won't be able to support this for technical reasons. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8338	Thank you. No more reports. Moving to the 14th point of the agenda: Ad. 14. Appointment of a member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Broadcasting Service Management Board from the Bosniak people – Bosnia and Herzegovina's Regulatory Agency for Communications Under the Law on Public Television Service of BiH, the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency submitted a ranking list of candidates for a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board of the Bosniak people on 18.11.2011. The rang-lista lists include the following candidates: 1. Esad Gotovuša, 2. Nedžad Ibrahimović, 41 3. Nail Kurtić and 4. Arif Mesihović. The Transport and Communications Commission delivered its opinion on the list on the 1st of 12/11. The Commission has accepted this candidate ranking. At the 15th session of the House, held on 8 December 2011, a conclusion was adopted on the postponement of a statement on the appointment of a member of the BiH Public Radio and Television Service Management Board member from the Bosniak people's ranks and was tasked with the Commission for Transport and Communications to hold a meeting with the management of the RAC and the RAC Council until the next session of the House of Representatives. Today we're just pleading on the proposed candidates. There's no discussion, unless it's in the meantime some conclusions. Dear Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8340	As I would suggest, we agree with the conclusions proposed by the Commission, however, since we are all familiar with the problems that are going on with the RAC Regulatory Agency and the Council of Communications, which is illegal, so we have come to the point of getting some proposals from an illegal institution – our proposal concerns, that is, the Commission's proposal for finance and the budget to provide us with the Council of Ministers with amendments and additions to the Law on Communications concerning and the way members of the RAC Council are elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8341	That's the next item on the agenda. I believe there is a proposal from the Commission regarding the conclusion. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Is it a relationship?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8342	About this point that's tied to the next point. I remind you that this House has adopted one conclusion, I don't know which session, I have this conclusion, but I can't remember which session: 'A statement on the appointment of a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board of the Bosniak people is being postponed. It is up to the Commission for Transport and Communications to hold a meeting with the management of the RAC and the RAC Council until the next meeting of the House of Representatives." Now, I remind you that we don't have a chairman commission here, and I thought that one of the members of the Commission would let us know what happened, and then it looks like what happened to this conclusion for the next point. And this conclusion for the next point, that I am not talking about the conclusion of the previous part, is about what has been done in communication with the RAC about calling a competition for all members who have expired their mandate. And now I really don't know how we're even having this discussion. We have two points. At one point we have something to call on in the next. So this is very ill-conceived as a agenda, I have to point it out. And what do I want to say? We actually have that all members have expired. Today, it is only out of the order of the Bosniak people and not out of the order of the Serbian and Croatian people that it is pointless. The second thing is: under the current Telecommunications Act, there is no possibility of a new 42 competition being held. And what the Commission has proposed is to make an urgent proposal by the Council of Ministers to amend the Telecommunications Act, which will allow the selection of members of the Management Board from all three peoples. So, today again, it doesn't make sense, we'll pick out of the Bosniak order and still have the board of directors where two irregular members are. I don't think that makes sense. And that within this next point I have a proposal to correct this conclusion, but that there's no point in making a statement about this point.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8343	Thank you. I would like, before I give the honourable MP Ismeti Dervoz, to say that Parliament's conclusion is that this should be a statement at this session, and that is why I also said that it is unnecessary to hold a debate on this agenda point, but it can again be concluded on the postponement of the statement of this point. So, we in the College just respected the conclusion of this house, which strictly and Decidedly stated that it must be placed on the agenda of this session. Dear Ismeta Dervoz, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8344	Since Mr. Kunić, the chairman of our commission, today will not allow me to explain something about this conclusion called for by Mrs. Majkić. So, this conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8345	That's the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8346	I mean, but while we're moving on, the replica can be after we've entered both points...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8348	Thank you very much. It is not strictly specified to hold a meeting concerning a member of the Bosniak People's Management Board, but to hold a meeting with the RAC and the RAC Council on the overall situation relating to the functioning of both the RAC and the Management Board.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8349	Thank you. No more reports. We're going to point 15, that's 43 Ad. 15. Proposal for a Commission Opinion on Transport and Communications of the House of Representatives on the expiry of the mandate of BHRT Management Board members from the Serbian and Croatian people The BiH Communications Regulatory Agency submitted a letter on the appointment of members of the BHRT Management Board in the order of the Serbian and Croatian people, among other things, stating that the Agency's Council has decided to repeat the competition. By acting in accordance with the conclusions of the 4th and 6th meetings of the Joint College of the two homes of 31.1.2012, the Transport and Communications Commission submitted a proposal for conclusions which read: '1. Members of the Board of Directors of BHRT who have expired the mandate are again extended to a 90-day period starting from 1.1.2012. 2. The Commission proposes to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives to task the Council of Ministers of BiH to prepare and deliver in the parliamentary procedure amendments and additions to the Law on Communications (the Official Messenger of BiH), No: 31/03, 75/06 and 32/10) and the Law on the Public TV Service of BiH (‘the Official Messenger of BiH’, issue 95/05 and 32/10), in order to enable the amendments to the existing provisions of those laws to implement the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly in relation to the re-implement of the procedure for the appointment of BHRT Management Board members of the Republic of Croatia and Serbia." I note that the House of People at the 8th session, held on 21.11.2011, adopted both of the conclusions I read. Here's the debate on this agenda, even if it's about the previous one. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8351	Well, here, I think the first conclusion is absolutely unsettled enough to be handled. What does it mean in 90 days? Within 90 days, it means we won't be able to complete the procedure of point 2. I think point 2 should be number 1. To be delivered by the Council of Ministers as soon as possible by a Communication Act that will regulate this way of choice. Another point, which should read: 'Members of the Board of Directors of BHRT, to whom the mandate has expired, shall be renewed until the legal conditions for the selection of members of the Management Board of all three peoples.' So, at that moment we can just, that would be point 2, the current point 2 would be 1st, and until the law-amending procedure is completed, there is no possibility of making another choice. And in that context, it also decides at this previous point. So, please change this point, not within 90 days, because we'll have a constant home extension until the law is passed. So, that is, until the conditions for selecting board members in the order of all three nations are met. Thank you. 44
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8352	Thank you. I would like to remind you that our committee has proposed the conclusions adopted in the House of Peoples. We here at the House of Representatives can also adopt different conclusions, which will lead to a consensus between committees, so as not to suffer those concerned. If we adopt new laws here, and it says 90 days, it will be interpreted differently which home has given someone some kind of support in the weather... Šemsudim Mehmedović, honourable MP, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8353	Look, since here's one part of my replica you've already said, so we have what we have adopted in the House of Peoples and we need to adopt in the same text. Of course, what is unacceptable is what Dušanka Majkić, a respected colleague, said: until conditions are met. This means that there will never be conditions, because we already have members of the Board of Directors of BHRT who expired two years ago and are constantly doing this, constantly, and we have a chaotic state. As a result, this conclusion, number one, may be the most important, we have a chaotic situation because we have a Council of the Regulatory Agency for Communications which has long expired, we have a director who has not been confirmed here for the third year, we have two members of the Board of Directors of BHRT, two of whom have expired for two years, and here is the third member of the Management Board to expire in January or, in February, a pardon. Therefore, we have a completely illegal situation and therefore I support that these conclusions, as proposed by the Commission, are adopted at today's House of Representatives meeting. And let me get back to this, in a way, the previous issue, about getting out of the current situation regarding the election of a Bosniak member of the BHRT Management Board. We can end this in two ways. First, by voting today, we choose none of the four proposed candidates and then we will be in an equal position, or the same situation as with these two previous ones. Or should we postpone this until we are in a position to choose from the order of the Serbian people, or Croatian people, and then to do so together in the package. So that's, that's two possibilities, so here's the choice we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8354	Dear Ismeta Dervoz, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8355	Thank you. I just want to add something to what Mr. Mehmedović said. We have an even more difficult situation concerning the Public Broadcasting System in BiH, which is that in the confirmed digitalisation process that is to be completed, until now given date 2014, we have a corporate coordinator who manages almost that process, a corporation that does not exist and a corporation that has never been established as the fourth legal entity to broadcast to BiH. So, I ask this Parliament: Who are the coordinators who are singled out... high personal incomes and paid for coordinating non-existent coordination and who today and 45 tomorrow may have a decisive word on how millions of funds will be allocated for the digitalisation process in BiH? My proposal is to avoid these opportunities to talk about an illegal council, an illegal RAC, an illegal director, etc. These processes are also synchronised to bring this process to an end with the newly established RAC Council, the newly established director and to get legal members of the Management Board from all nations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8356	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement Report of the Commission You received the College's report on Parliament's initiative by Aleksandra Pandurević at the 15th session: Analysis of the implementation of the State Strategy for Working on War Crimes cases. [[Common discussion]] Is that it? I'm sorry, we skipped point 16. Ad. 16. Proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine the spending of donor funds
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8359	Thank you, Chairman. I appreciate the initiative launched by my colleague Jovičić, but I would like to remind especially my colleagues and colleagues who have not been in this session before that this is the third committee, the Commission's Investigation Commission for the Determination of Donors' Spending, that in the first meeting, the Commission's president, Sefer Halilović, chaired by the Commission. 46
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8360	Tihomir Gligorić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8361	So this is the fourth one, actually. This is either third, irrelevant, but the third is in order, but I know that Mr. Sefer Halilović was particularly exposed, etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8362	Last time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8363	Yeah. I even remember that, at the time of Mr Terzić's term of office, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers, at the request of the Commission and with the support of this Parliament, approved significant funds, including a few thousand marks for the work of the commission. In the last session of Parliament, we had a re-examination committee that has re-worked the entire mandate, etc. And here at the beginning, relatively early on, almost half-term, we have another initiative to form an investigative commission. I want to mention immediately, on behalf of my colleague Belkić and on our behalf, that we do not mind forming a commission, but provided that our conclusions are adopted. We suggest the following conclusions: '1. The Commission undertakes that their work will result in final and relevant reports. 2. The Commission shall waive any compensation for its work. 3. In its work, the Commission will not initiate, nor will it be granted any additional funding such as projects and the like. 4. The Commission's work will end years of efforts to obtain final data on the spending of donor funds." These conclusions are, among other things, a function of finally putting an end to this story and no longer politicizing topics like this theme. Thank you. The proposal for a conclusion I'll deliver officially.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8364	Thank you. I note that this house has decided to form an investigative commission, that the College has prepared a proper conclusion. I understand that you have objections to this conclusion in terms of amendments for individual members. I'd like to get them in writing so we can vote on changing this conclusion in a written formula. The next one for discussion is Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8365	Mr. Chairman, I haven't been to the 15th session of the House of Representatives when there's been a debate on this issue. I have certain reserves, frankly, that I would have voted 47 against this conclusion to make a cartoon of Parliament for issues we are absolutely not in charge of. So there's no one in this House, no executive or legislative authority, who's been involved to hypothetically talk about something. There are BiH institutions dealing with investigative activities and determining responsibility for abuse in any way. So in that sense, I believe that this country has far more important issues than the work of this investigation committee. ...but to respect the decision of the House of Representatives. We have a proposal for a conclusion ahead of us and I suggest that we improve in a certain sense the position of 2nd of this conclusion. So: that the deadline for submitting the report to the House of Representatives on the work of the Investigation Commission is 31.5. I also suggest that we cannot influence this, that clubs think that members of this investigation committee of the previous assembly should not be included in the current assembly of this commission in order to effectively come to the conclusion. We have or do not have, we are torturing the Parliamentary Assembly Secretariat on issues that have nothing to do with it, we are asking the institutions that will submit a report to us, I think there are many other issues that we could be gathered to come to a common conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8366	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8367	Mr. Chairman, therefore, with all the reserves that mainly concern the issue of politicizing this matter in total, yes, 'the House has made the same decision as we have made, respecting what we have done to propose in front of our club the person who will be in the commission – this is according to the decision of the club Mr. Mehmedović Šemsudin. Of course, we will also support these conclusions that are discussed by colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović, who are heading towards a more efficient work of this commission and less politicisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8368	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8369	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues, you have received a CD, you have received a report from the Commission. I just suggested that you once put an end to this story. Whether or not someone needs to, and I should point out right now that this will never end, there is no one here, no one should be in the illusions. But the Commission did, and my intensities were to warn my colleagues that it would not happen to anyone that the last year of their term of office suggested that the Commission's work on some pre-election activities be done as they respected us, and to say immediately that I was a member of that commission for a little less than a year. And I proposed to the House of Representatives, and he gave us support, that we have a commanding character, not that there are MPs in the role of investigators, prosecutors, judges, but that we have the consent of the House of Representatives to force our institutions to deal with these actions, notably 48 prosecutors and SIPA and intelligence agencies. And that this commission just collects all these results that they come up with and forward to the competent institutions to put a point on that story. I'd support a colleague of the Prodanović if this were pointless somewhere. But does it have an impact on the work of this Parliament the temperatures under which penguins live today to spend money on wasteless spending on countless travels around the world and planets? And the economic benefits for this country are gone. Well, remember, I will have to remind you that I have proposed that Parliament propose to the Presidency that we reward every ambassador, not with the following function, but with all possible orders if he has brought one or two investors into this country. So when we're discussing these issues who's been spending money here for years, in a few days there's a parliamentary delegation going to Iran, 21 members, and it's run by the Foreign Ministry, I guess there's something left to spend there too. I don't mind visiting all the countries, benefiting this country, but let's go, and that was my suggestion to be an intensity, to put a point on this story. Is this someone's interest? Did someone steal money? Did billions of donations arrive? No, they did, I don't decide, I said before, I'm not a judge, I'm not a prosecutor, I'm not doing the job I did anymore. Although I can see with my naked eye in a mile-long space, only you colleagues turn around, huge assets that I can't justify that they've acquired legally, regularly, with the results of work. Companies that do nothing like mushrooms, so they don't, I told them here in Parliament, that bil Gejs gives them money that they can and that they own billions, and that this state has lost billions. So, what I'm saying again, that's when we got back in the last session to have a commanding character, to invite you and say, "Man, will you stay in office, will you do anything, get involved in your business, do something!" So that was the goal, not the goal of me doing the name and last name today and saying, well, this one's a thief, and that one's not. I'll never do that. I'm not in charge of that. I know what my assignment is, but it's my most difficult task when I go to Parliament's session to say, and every man and your colleagues, when you stop those thieves, do you have the strength to once, at least, never all of them, but one number, one percent, one promiscuity, here, no one's found themselves because of the thieving. And what happened? And those who had some shut down based on alleged...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8370	Comrade Jovičić, you're going out of the agenda, we're talking about this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8371	Here's the agenda, here's the end. So, colleagues, I ask you to put an end to it and to make it clear right now, I was absolutely not interested in it then, but as an MP chosen by the people, I am interested in establishing and putting, I repeat, it is the key to my having been intensification to put this, to adopt the first report, and then Parliament decides whether this should be done or not, but not to wait, I repeat, for the last year, the last year of two mandates, because this commission has never worked in a term of four years. It's always been someone's idea for some reason to form it. What is it now, and let me tell my colleague Prodanović: Be a member of this commission because you are such a way and a suggestion that no one from the last commission can be – and here is just Mr. Šemso Mehmedović, me and my colleague Bećirović – you are immediately doubting that we were doing something wrong while you perform like this. What is your goal of saying that no one in the last term can be a member of this committee? You have to explain. Here's what I'm proposing, and I'm not looking for an explanation why you're against some who were on the last committee. You must give a reason, if you have such a suggestion. Thank you very much. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8372	My colleagues and colleagues, believe me, I didn't expect to have this kind of discussion about something we agreed on last time. So, he arranged for this home to be formed by the Commission and the College on this basis, and, on the basis of this College proposal, which, in the meantime, also the Expansive College had at its session and said that it was nothing problematic, suggested that only Article 2 was fixed or explained that it was six months, and now we have all the discussion on this agenda point, and in view of the general need to form an investigative commission. Since a large number of debaters have come forward and after this clarification of mys, I'm giving a 10 minute break and I'm asking the club chiefs to talk to their MPs. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please invite the presidents of the clubs to invite the MPs to come to work. The break is over, we don't have a quorum, and we need to finish this session and bring this agenda to a break. The break is at 1400 hours, I've already informed you. How much do we have?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8374	We have 22.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8375	We're 22? Thank you. We have before the start of the discussion and the replica, and it's business intervention. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8376	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Given that you were ahead of us because the fact that we went off topic, beyond the agenda, and what we were supposed to discuss last time, we took to discuss today and what we finished and what we voted for, and we didn't deal with what's on our agenda today, so SNSD MPs will be excluded from the reported ones, both for discussion and for replication. He won't answer again. The proposal of the SNSD is that in this commission, it will be formed, will be Slavko Jovičić and that we put an end to this debate, respecting all the proposals that we will plead, which have come to...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8377	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8378	Thank you. 50 I understand that Mr. Božo Ljubić will do something.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8379	It's a discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8380	Discussion! As far as I'm concerned, I can do it later.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8381	You're a replica and you have an advantage.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8382	I just wanted to replicate the proposal, so these agenda points, Mr Slavko Jovičić, who mentioned among other things the names of the members of the Commission from the previous call and previous calls. And it might be a good thing that we here have heard the experiences that the members of the Commission had in the previous meeting when we propose and decide on this item of the agenda. Do they feel that the Commission can finally finish this job, that is, will the Commission, by its work, through the outcome of its work, result as well as the previous two? And will, of course, cost this parliament and this budget as well as the previous commissions. Thank you. So I repeat, it is a colleague of Jovičić, a colleague of Šemso Mehmedović, a colleague of Denis Bećirović. As I recall, for a time he was participating a commission of colleagues, Živković. There are probably still MPs here who took part in this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8383	Thank you. The discussion, the first deputy chairman, respected colleague Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8384	Dear colleagues and colleagues, thus appreciating our willingness to finish this point as soon as possible, I will discuss it very briefly. I, of course, was also in the College of the House and the Expansive College of the House for these conclusions, even today, after hearing some discussions and certain proposals of conclusions, I am willing to consider and possibly support some. In this decision, it is a little imprecise to which period the spending of donations is concerned. Perhaps you should consider that before putting it to the plea. Is this the period since BiH's international recognition, is this the period after the end of the war, is this one, so let's see what it will be... for this commission? Just to think about it. And on behalf of the Mixed Club, on this committee, I propose Mr. Zvonko Jurišić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8385	Thank you. Dear Member Danijela Martinović. Here you go. 51
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8386	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The SDP representative club proposes Mr Mirsad Mešić as a member of the Commission's investigation.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8387	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šemsudin Mehmedović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8388	Gentlemen Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, here, since I have also been mentioned in several discussions of my colleagues and colleagues, I am sorry that Šefik Džaferović proposed me right in front of the club in this commission and thereby narrowed down the space for my discussion today. But allow me, according to a distinguished colleague, Azra Hadžiahmetović, to convey some of the experiences from the previous Commission's call. In fact, when this commission was to be formed in the last term of Parliament, I went out and I was against the formation of this commission, precisely because of the motive for which this commission was formed, which is to show for God's sake, there was someone from the government involved in the consumption of money, theft, thieving and, in some ways, engaged in politics related to donations that entered BiH. We have seen through a year and a few days of working on that commission the terrible things that have happened with the spending of donor funds in BiH. In fact, at least the government, no matter who did what time, participated and created where donor funds would be spent, but they were always some donors with their wishes wherever they wanted, in which way and through whom to implement donor funds. So we had cases, I did this case seem to have mentioned to me once that a 7m-euro bridge was made. In the end, it turned out to be a model that no one should have ever crossed. And it was removed after six months, after the opening ceremony and after, of course, money laundering, so to speak. Eh, my wish and why I support the formation of this commission and finally put an end to the spending of these funds, to actually say once – yes, so many funds have entered BiH, the government has created the spending of funds in that percentage, and the rest has no impact whatsoever on the spending of funds. Therefore, these are experiences here from the previous Commission's call. As for these conclusions, the esteemed counterpart Hadžiahmetović should not be discriminated against. I am in favour of supporting the conclusion in which we will conclude that there is no compensation for any commission, not just this one. And I certainly support that, even though a few of us in the previous session had been and worked without a fee to work on this commission and in the last session. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8389	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8390	Thank you, Chairman. From this presentation, Mr. Mehmedović, I conclude that the opposition is guilty and the opposition is thieves. It's not known to me that the donors have been calling some tenders. And of course, I mean, I was in a dilemma whether at all that party that has ruled this country for 20 years, and who is responsible for embezzling a number of donations, should be on this committee because it's clearly used by that commission for obstructions. I'm not going to say that we from the RS are fair or honest, but we're not, here's not even SNSD had any donations, so they couldn't steal, they're in power. Here, I'll give you just one example, since we're throwing ourselves at examples here. The government of the Netherlands and the government of the RS are some '98-99. in the waterway in the municipality of Srebrenica invested so much money that the water line could be made from Bijeljina to Srebrenica, and realised by local authorities, the SDA. Srebrenica still has water problems today. Here, I call on the SDA, since today we have found that they are fair and fair, that they have a license to do so, let them investigate only this case of construction of the waterworks in Srebrenica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8391	Thank you. Replica, honourable MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8392	Apparently, a colleague of Aleksandra's wouldn't listen to what I was saying. I am also speaking as a member of the SDA and as vice president of the club that we care about this commission finishing the job and finally putting an end to the I. But apparently some here insist on making some party states. I can't have the SDA investigating where the funds were spent. So if it's a long-standing habit for someone to investigate through the party, it replaces the state authorities and the enforcement agencies... And so on, that's their problem. But the U.S.A. stands for the legality of the work. Therefore, and therefore I support that this commission be formed and put an end to and, to determine where donations have been spent, even if it affects some SDA officials, if you will. And as far as I know, the SDS has been in power for many years and in the RS there are also institutions dealing with investigations, so let them do their job.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8393	Thank you. The reply to the replica, Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8394	The SDS hasn't been in RS government for long. We had only one government after the war, it was Gojko Kličković's government and after a year Per Bukejlović. So since we've established today that you're fair and fair, I hope you'll show enough political will from the U.S.A. and you'll give up the control of the judicial institutions, that here you will also allow the depolitisation of the police. I don't know, when you're so honest, why you're fighting so hard to control the court, the prosecution, for police control. Thank you. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8395	I ask the MPs to treat their colleagues and colleagues with respect. I hope this was about the party, not anyone, I don't know. Dear Ambassador Šemsudin. Whether there are any more of these replicas, or if you're interested in the discussion, you can wait. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8396	So let me say, if my colleague Pandurević mentions that the SDA or I personally control the work of the judicial authorities, I don't know what case it is. As far as I know, there are only two cases in the Federation and in the RS when the prosecution has dropped the charges, and that seems to me to be related to Dodik and related to our party platform group leader. So, I don't know about the other cases. And if that's related to this motion to abolish the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office, we'll make it clear, is it, when it comes to parliamentary procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8397	I knew I shouldn't have given my word, but here. Dear Ambassador Mato Franjičević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8398	Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I propose Mr. Bariša Čolak to the Bureau of Investigation. This is necessary because we know that there will be a change in the structure and composition of the club. And just, once I've heard from you, I can't help but defend Parliament's right to conduct investigations for purely principled reasons. A parliamentary investigation is taken, truthfully, exceptionally, in cases where the existing rule of law provides for mechanisms to fail and when they do not produce results, as is the case in this case. I can be skeptical, too, and I may be more skeptical than those who have pleaded here, but we must indeed give the possibility and a chance that Parliament, where they are all scheduled, all the other institutions that should do one part of the work, must give Parliament a chance to try to do what others have failed to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8399	Mr Franjičević, the mandate of Mr Nikola Špirić and Bariša Čolak is frozen and they do not currently consume the mandate because they are still in the Council of Ministers. You can propose the current HDZ member, and then change later, if there is any consumption of the mandate by Mr Bariša Čolak. I hope you realize you can't run him and you have to say another name. Dear Ambassador Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8400	Thank you, Chairman. 54 Not to discuss much about the situation, but what is certain is that we from the SDS always believe in justice and support the work of this commission and that is why we will be precise, concise and propose Mr Borislav Bojić as a member of this commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8401	Dear Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8402	On the trail of what the esteemed colleague has said, I'm putting in signs of a quote, so it repeats itself, we support everything that is in the interest of justice and what we all need. The Alliance's representative club for a better future suggests Mr Mirsad Đugum as a member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8403	Thank you. Dear Member Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8404	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, of course, I support the Commission's work. But in my opinion, this commission should never have been called the Commission of Investigation. When you say investigative, then, as I would say, it associates what is not the subject of the work of MPs, which is associated with the MUP, with other organs that need to be dealt with. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] All right, all right. I mean, of course, I support that there is such a commission. I personally don't like it, I think it would be better to tell the House of Representatives to control the spending of donor funds. I think such a single body should help the authorities of the regular state to investigate. They are for research, and the Commission would be for the control of such actions. But, well, it's not the subject of this together right now, and we can't do that kind of stuff right now. Of course, I also support that this commission is working in the future. It is very good to know and of course to suggest the organs that are responsible for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8406	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have received two amendments, meaning Mr Lazar Prodanović and the honourable MP Dušanka Majkić, in connection with the conclusion and we have the conclusion of the honourable Parliament of Azra Hadžiahmetović. So we'll make a statement about these amendments and the conclusion when it comes to voting. Dear Ambassador Mato Franjičević, second, right? 55
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8407	That's right. As long as I don't stay in the air, Mr. President, to reflect what you said. The idea was, in fact, that Mr Dragan Vrankić, who will indeed be a representative in this high house and member of the club, would be in this Research Commission, but here I am, until then, putting my name and last name on that list.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8408	Okay, thanks. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 17th point of the agenda: Ad. 17. Commission report on Parliament's initiative by Aleksandra Pandurević from the 15th session of the House on the points: Analysis of implementation of the State Strategy for War Crimes As I said before, the Commission report from the College you received, where you saw that the Kolegijum did not achieve consent. Today we declare ourselves in the second round of this initiative. There's no discussion about that. We automatically move to the 18th point of the agenda: Ad. 18. Declaration on Parliament's initiative by Aleksandra Pandurević of 12th session of the House: "A initiative for inclusion in the agenda of the House of Representatives: Report of the Council of Ministers of BiH on implementation of measures and activities to address the problems of BiH citizens who were employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia, and fired from work from 1991 to 1995"
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8411	Mr. Chairman, allow me to congratulate you on your newly elected function and welcome all present. As you said, on the Joint Commission on Human Rights, we were considering the initiative of the honourable Member Aleksandra Pandurević, whom we unanimously adopted, and this time I again support the given initiative. I'll say a few words about this problem. Infringement of fundamental human rights of social, socio-economic, labour-related, permanent employment and registered residence and property, which have been in the period since '91. '95. in the year, our workers who worked and lived in the Republic of Croatia where they escaped, so from the area, and thus were fired from work because of war acts. I must show dissatisfaction with the slowness and disinterest of our authorities to help these citizens. In 2005, this parliament commissioned the Council of Ministers to prepare and offer measures to address the difficult situation of these citizens and our citizens, citizens of BiH. In 2008, the Council of Ministers formed a working group to prepare a plan of work on concrete activities, deadlines, duties, according to BiH ministries as bearers of activity. But that's what it all ended up with. Our authorities really didn't do anything about it, except on a few occasions donate some legal aid in court proceedings. I hope that the new Council of Ministers will recognise the urgency in solving this problem, and without delay, the activities of the relevant ministries should be launched, in terms of ending and resolving judicial disputes being conducted, there are cases over 15 years in relation to the exercise of certain rights, and the rights of unpaid salaries, rights of severance, rights based on privatisation, acquired rights, disability of labour and other rights, as well as housing rights, as well as the resolution of other assets. This is about 60,000 workers who have lost their jobs and all rights acquired by work. I think the number's even bigger. These problems should be dealt with systematically, meaning on a bilateral basis, given the fact that we have similar problems with other neighbouring countries, Slovenia and Montenegro. So we as a state are obliged to protect the rights of our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8412	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 19th point of the agenda: Ad. 19. The role and responsibility of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the delegations of the Parliamentary Assembly for reviewing and adopting reports, resolutions, declarations at EP, PSSE, PSM, OSCE, NATO, IPU and CEI 57 At the request of MP Beriz Belkić, we have placed this item on the agenda today, as agreed. When we vote, we will declare that the materials are forwarded to the competent committees, so that after obtaining the opinion this item of the agenda is placed on the agenda of some of the meetings of the House of Representatives. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8414	Thank you, Chairman. Here, in view of this item of the agenda, my colleague Belkić and I have proposed, we have prepared one conclusion: that the Foreign Affairs Commission of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly should be tasked with preparing a proposal for an act, a directive, or a regulation, or something similar on how the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and delegations in international institutions, associations, bodies to discuss and bring together materials on BiH. And here, let me also mention, taking into account and the flow of time since this initiative was put forward, that we appreciate that it would be extremely useful for all MPs to get the material which was the subject of consideration and adoption, namely the resolution at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which concerns the functioning of democratic institutions in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8415	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 20th point of the agenda: Ad. 21. Appointment of the Secretary of the Parliamentary House of BiH and the Secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH I would like to remind you that for the secretary, I hope you will now receive the materials necessary for these points of the agenda, meaning that Mr Bojan Ninković has proposed to the Secretary of the House of Representatives the College. At the 11th session, held in 1.2.2012, the people's home was named Ferid Buljubašić as Secretary of the Joint Service. I remind you, the secretary of this house is appointed House of Representatives, and the secretary of the Joint Service is appointed both at home. I'm opening a debate. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. 58
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8417	Thank you, Chairman. Well, I must say on behalf of my colleague Belkić and, in our own name, that we were really surprised by the speed and depth of the human change being done here and here in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the way it is done. We expect this will also result in changes in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's Office. But here, let me, you have decided, or six decided, we cannot change anything, of course, but we also have the obligation of personal and collegiate to express this at this time, or to give recognition for the work of Mrs Branka Todorović and Mr Aljoša Čampara, who, by their constructive work, created a good atmosphere in the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, stimulated a collegiate work, of course in these times of the undeveloped system, etc., which was an additionally difficult environment for their work. Of course, this way and with recognition we also express regret that this confession has not been verified in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8418	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 21st point of the agenda: Ad. 21. Appointment of three members from the House of Representatives at the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Census, Households and Apartments Act in BiH in 2013 The law was adopted in a different text in the Houses of the Parliamentary Assembly, so it is necessary to bring the same text into line. Today we appoint three members from our home. The proposal Kolegijum the dom College is that it should be Milica Marković, Šefik Džaferović and Danijela Martinović. Any other suggestions? I'm opening a debate. Dear Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8420	Since I have proposed, when it comes to these three members, that we be consistent in applying the criteria in some way: it is proposed that Mrs. Milica Marković, who, if I am not mistaken, was also in the last meeting of this house; it is proposed that Mr. Šefik Džaferović, who was also in the past meeting. I remind you that the last meeting of this house has passed this law. Only when it comes to this... member of ours is it proposed that distinguished colleague Danijela Martinović who was not in the past term. For that reason, I found it logical to be consistent and I suggested 59 Mr. Nik Lozančić. But I really don't need to be vaccinated, and here I am giving up that proposal and I support, let some of these and us new ones in that.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8421	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 22. Ad. 22. Resolution Božo Ljubić membership in the Interparliamentary Friendship Group of PSBiH for bilateral co-operation with other countries' parliamentary bodies number VI and appointment as a member of the Interparliamentary Friendship Group of PSBiH for bilateral co-operation with other countries' parliamentary bodies number V This point is included in the proposal of the Expansive College of the House and since we assumed that certain groups of friendships also needed to make certain transfers, we formed this item of the agenda only for one man and for one group, which does not prevent anyone from delivering changes and transfers through their clubs or to the College, but it will not be at today's session but rather at one of the next sessions. I'm opening a debate. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8423	Here's a microphone, sorry. Although you're a good part, I immediately turned off the microphone and my participation, but here's a chance that if this resolution of Mr. Božo Ljubić in this parliamentary group opens up space, I am expressing interest in this group because of my special ties with Japan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8424	Thank you. Please deliver it to the Kolegijum, and we'll put it on the agenda at one of the next sessions. If there are no more reports, I'm closing the hearing. Before we move to the 23rd agenda, I suggest that the House declares that the debate on points 23 to 27 of the agenda is united, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratification of the agreement. There's no need to vote on it, it's declarative enough to agree to a united debate. 60 Ad. 23. - 27. Granting consent The opinion of the committee responsible for external affairs on approval for ratification has been given to you. Dear Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8426	Mr. Chairman, I apologize – since I see that there are no applicants and that we are close to the end of the session – what will I say when considering this item of the agenda. We have suggested one conclusion, and if we may not repeat it, regarding point 13. Although the SDA Club accepts it means that we are erasing the term, it remains just the word 'institution' and that it enters the stenogram, not to write it separately. So, not 'common' but 'institution' because we fully understood the observation that there are institutions in both Tuzla and Zenica and the Council of Ministers will do so further, in Mostar etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8427	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we said at 1400 hours we'd take a break. We have two proposals, here's the deal: So we do it at 14.00, or should we make a vote at 3:30? If you're all in the mood to consider, there were a lot of conclusions, there were a lot of other things to discuss. So the vote is at 3:30. All those in the friendship groups at 1400 hours please respond to the constitutional sessions. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, is there any chance we could move on to the vote? Please take your seats. We're voting on point 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 18th and 19th sessions Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 33, "against" and "abstained" were gone. 21 Federation, 12 RS. I understand we've adopted the minutes from the 18th and 19th sessions. Point 3. MP Niko Lozančić's request to discuss the Bill's proposal to supplement the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions, following an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. We're voting on an emergency request. If the request is adopted, we vote on the bill. If it is not adopted, we shall vote on a request for a shortened procedure, in accordance with Article 126. Rules of Procedure. 61 Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 30, "against" four, "restricted" three, enough entity majority. I understand we've adopted this request. We are now voting on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's government institutions. Please prepare for the vote. Vote, now! "For" 30, "against" two, "restricted" four, enough entity majority. I agree that we have adopted the draft law supplementing the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions. Moving to point 4. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Personal Card of Citizens of BiH (second reading) Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 30, 'against' six,'restricted' one, sufficient entity majority. I find that we passed the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the ID card in the second reading. Moving to point 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on residence and residence of citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina (second reading) Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 14, "against" 21, "restricted" two. I find that we have not adopted the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on residence and residence of citizens of BiH. Moving to point six. A statement by the House on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of a report on the Amendment Law and the Supplements to the Law on State Service in BiH institutions Glasmo on the approval of an extension of the deadline for the submission of a new report by 60 days. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! For 37, practically, we unanimously adopted this request from the Commission. Moving to point 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Violations (second reading) 62 Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 37, no "against" votes and no "abstained." I find that we have passed the Law of Infractions in the second reading. Point 8. The Kolegijum's report on an effort to reach agreement on a proposal for a law on a state aid system in BiH (first reading) votes in the second round on the First Reading Bill Proposal. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 10, 'against' 22, 'abstained' five; 12, there's no general majority, so this law has not passed. Moving to point nine. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH Institutions (first reading) We vote on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 33, "against" wasn't, four "abstained", enough entity majority. I find that we adopted the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH Institutions in the first reading. We're going to point 10. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of BiH institutions (first reading) We also vote on the Bill's proposal in the first reading. Please prepare for the vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8429	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8430	We also have a proposal for a vote but we can vote first on the bill proposal, or do you want to vote first on this conclusion? Well, I think it's okay to vote on the bill first. Please, so we're voting on the bill in the first reading. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 33, "against" four, "abstained" wasn't enough, entity majority. I agree that we voted on the Bill's proposal, in the first reading, on amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of BiH institutions. 63 We are now voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Dušanka Majkić's honourable letter. Is there any need for me to read the conclusion? - The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives requires the Finance and Budget Commission to analyse the letter of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office and propose concrete amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions in order to prevent intrusion into the principles of independence and speciality of the BiH Institution Audit Office. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! Thirty-five, there were no abstentions. I find that this conclusion has been adopted. Moving to point 11. Proposal for a law supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, with the Commission's opinion on finance and budget, Glasmo's opinion on the negative opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! For 31, "no" wasn't, "abstained" three, enough entity majority. I find that we have adopted the negative opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission and that this law has fallen. Moving to point 12. The report on the work on changes and additions to the BiH Election Law We vote on the adoption of the Report. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! We vote on the adoption of the Report stating that no agreement has been reached and that nothing has been changed. 'For' 27, there were no votes 'against', 'abstained' two, sufficient entity majority. I understand we've adopted the report. Moving to point 13. Report from the BiH Institutions' Audit Office on the review of the impact of Glasmo on the SNSD Club's Opinion's proposal. Should we read that conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8431	There's a lot of them we don't know.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8432	You should, right? 64 - It is up to the BiH Council of Ministers to urgently address the issue of accommodation of institutions in Sarajevo and Banja Luka in accordance with the Commission's views on finance and budget, views and conclusions of the House of Representatives, as well as the findings and recommendations of the audit, to use credit funds for such purposes, and thus save the long-term huge funds currently being allocated to the lease in a very controversial manner.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8433	I have one question: why in Sarajevo and Banja Luka alone, there are institutions and outside the two cities? [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8434	Is there any need to open a debate about this now? common discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8435	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8436	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8437	... when he called for the Commission's conclusion, he was from three years ago where others were listed, so Mostar was resolved along the way and applied to all other institutions. If there's a Council of Ministers, there's no problem with the Council of Ministers solving everything that's possible, but it's not real now, it hasn't solved one, so let's count 16 cities, no one's out there. It was the only logic. [[Common discussion]] So you see... why did we put it on? Because in the lease story, the biggest accent was on Sarajevo and then on to Banja Luka, so we put it on and it wouldn't... because the Council of Ministers has the full freedom to handle it. Don't let us decide these executive positions now, so no...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8439	It's acceptable for us to be an institution, you know where they are located.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8440	That's right, we're...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8441	And not to mention "Saraje and Banja Luka."
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8442	Well, no, we wouldn't, look out... 65
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8443	There are institutions in Tuzla and Mostar and...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8444	Please, just a minute, just a minute. We have completed the debate on this conclusion that you have received in which Mr. Šefik Džaferović suggested that certain parts be thrown out and they were thrown out. Niko one suggested anything else was thrown out at the time. Or it's not appreciated to throw something else out, since it's appreciated how much I see something being thrown out. Please don't open up now about this debate and that everyone throws out of their place, although, as far as I can see, you are close to getting along, but the honourable MP, Šefik Džaferović, needs another. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8445	Don't make a problem where it's not there, even if where it's not, you don't have to make it, I mean, it's just so much trouble. I mean, there's nothing controversial about what's controversial. 'It is up to the Council of Ministers to urgently address the issue of BiH institutions' accommodation, to use credit funds for these purposes as appropriate, and thus to save long-term huge funds that are currently being leased in a very controversial manner.' And it says here, I deleted 'in Sarajevo and Banja Luka' here, because there are really other cities and this word 'common', and we agreed that it should be deleted. And that's something that can, which includes what people have been saying. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8446	My fellow MPs, for an hour and a half, you had the opportunity to make a deal between the clubs. We are now opening a debate on whether this can be settled at the time of the vote. Here, since it's the conclusion of the SNSD Club, I give the president of this club my word and then we go to the vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8447	I'm asking you to clear this up. We're really using time to vote. So, we've accepted, and it's not "joint," because there's institutions everywhere. Please, to the earlier conclusion of the Budget Commission, we are calling in which it says, there is this Commission conclusion in which it says, 'Mostar, Sarajevo and Banja Luka'. That's why it stands out like that, not at any time limiting, if you have to add 'and other places', and it's not controversial. Please, because, not to be, the lease story isn't disputed in Tuzla, Cavalry and I don't know if we're going to tie to it. That's what this is about, because...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8448	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8449	'And all the other places, here.' 66
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8450	So you agree to add 'in Sarajevo and Banja Luka' beyond that 'and other places'.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8451	'Like other places', here it is, leaving the breadth, let the Council of Ministers decide. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8452	And why didn't you take care of it in your break, Mr. Babalj, and why don't you suggest that conclusion next time?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8453	'Just like other places' and here's the deal and it's over.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8454	Is it good for you to put the SNSD Club, the club president, accepts the suggestion to add 'and other places', and thus this conclusion is formulated and I am putting it to the vote. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 34, "against" three, "abstained" wasn't there. I find that this conclusion has been adopted. We vote on the adoption of the Report with the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission and the conclusions contained therein. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! Is there a need to read those conclusions too? Thirty-two, no "against" and no "restraint" votes. I agree that we adopted the Report with the opinion of the Finance and Budget Commission and the conclusions contained in it. Moving to 14. Appointing a member of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Public Broadcasting Service Management Board from the Bosniak people Does the proposal have a conclusion? Not at all? There isn't. Okay. Dear Ambassador Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8455	Well, speaking with colleagues from other clubs, we think it would be a shame to knock this material down at this session, since there's no reason for that to happen. On the other hand, colleagues from other clubs cited as their own reason why they would not be in favour: that no competition procedure for the Serbian and Croatian members of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board has been completed, so we suggest that the statement on this agenda point be postponed until these two issues are also resolved.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8456	In order to be clear about what I'm going to suggest to the House to adopt you suggest that a plea be postponed without it being next time in the House, without it being 90 days, but only a delay in the plea.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8457	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8458	The conclusion is that a statement on the appointment of a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board to the resolution and representatives of the order of the Serbian and Croatian people is delayed. Thank you. Please prepare to vote. You can vote now! "For" 34, "against" two, "restricted" one. I realize we've adopted this conclusion. We move to the 15th item of the agenda of the Commission's Opinion on Transport and Communications of the House of Representatives on the expiry of the term of office of BHRT Management Board members from the Serbian and Croatian people, Glasmo, first on the adoption of the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament Aleksandra Pandurević. I'll read it to you. - The House of Representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly tasks the BiH Council of Ministers to urgently prepare and deliver the parliamentary procedure for amending and supplementing the Law on Communications concerning the selection of members of the RAC Council and the Law on the Public TV Service of BiH in order to allow the amendments to the existing provisions of those laws to implement the conclusions of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on the re-implementation of procedures for the appointment of BHRT members. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 14, "against" 21, "restricted" two, there's no general majority. This conclusion was not accepted. We are now voting on the adoption of the Commission's proposal for a conclusion. I hope we don't need to read them, because you got them in the materials.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8459	No microphone 68 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8460	No, no, which we didn't, the previous conclusion we didn't adopt? Please prepare for the vote. The vote just means on the conclusions of the Commission which were the item of the agenda 15. You've reached conclusions and we're voting on those conclusions. You can vote now! For 33, there were no votes 'against','restricted' three. I find that we have adopted the conclusions of our commission. Moving to point 16. The proposal for a conclusion on the establishment of the Research Commission of the House of Representatives to determine the spending of donor funds First we vote on the Proposal for an amendment of MP Lazar Prodanović, which reads: 'In position (2) in the second paragraph behind the word no later than should stand 31.5.2012. So, on the college proposal, that was six months, up to 2.8. This is where the deadline is reduced to 31.5.2012. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 19, "against" seven, "abstained" nine, sufficient entity majority. I find that we have adopted this amendment that becomes an integral part of the text. We are voting on Amendment of Parliament Dušanka Majkić: 'Article 4 is deleted' Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 12, "against" 11, "abstained" 11, silent entity support. Do you want a second lap? The college decided to go to the second round of voting. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! Nine, 'against' 18,'restricted' seven. Since... there is no general majority, so this amendment has not been accepted. We move to a vote on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament of Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić. Is there any need for me to read it? There's no need. We're voting on this conclusion. Prepare to vote. You can vote now!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8461	Please repeat the vote. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8462	At the request of the SNSD Club, we repeat the vote. Please prepare for the vote. Vote, now! 'For' 28, 'against' seven,'restricted' one, there's not enough entity majority. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 29, "against" seven, "restricted" one. There were two-thirds of any entity, so this conclusion has passed. We are now voting on the adoption of the proposal for a conclusion with the proposed members: Zvonko Jurišić, Mirsad Mešić, Šemsudin Mehmedović, Mate Franjičević, Borislav Bojić, Mirsad Đugum, Slavko Jovičić. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 33, there were no votes 'against', 'abstained' two, sufficient entity majority. I realize we've adopted this conclusion with the changes. We move to the 17th point of the agenda: The Commission's report on the effort to reach agreement on Parliament's initiative Aleksandra Pandurević, which refers to: The analysis of the implementation of the State Strategy for War Crimes cases Glasmo in the second round on this initiative of Parliament, Aleksandra Pandurević. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 17, 'against' 14,'restricted' five. Insufficient two-thirds of any entity.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8463	I'm expressing my suspicion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8464	Dear counterpart Bećirović voices doubt and we reiterate this vote. I hope you focus now. We vote in the second round on the initiative of Ambassador Aleksandra Pandurević. Please vote, now! 'For' 18, 'against' 15,'restricted' four, not enough two-thirds of any entity. I realize we adopted this initiative. Moving to the 18th point of the agenda: 70 18. Declaration on Parliament's initiative, Aleksandra Pandurević... to include in the agenda of the House of Representatives: Report of the Council of Ministers on implementation of measures and activities to address the problems of BiH citizens who were employed and settled in the Republic of Croatia We vote on the adoption of this initiative. Please move to vote. You can vote now! Thirty-five, no "against" and "restraint" votes. I realize we adopted this initiative. Point 19. The role and responsibility of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and the delegations of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for reviewing and adopting reports, resolutions and declarations at EP meetings, PSSE, PSM, OSCE, NATO and IPU Glasmo on the proposal for the conclusion of Parliament of Azra Hadžiahmetović and MEP Beriz Belkić. Do I have to read it? Please prepare for the vote. Vote, now! 33, no "against" or "abstained." I realize we've adopted this conclusion. Point 20. The appointment of the secretary of the PSBiH House of Representatives and the secretary of the Joint Service PSBiH Please just a little while, we vote on the appointment of Bojan Ninković as secretary of the House of Representatives, noting that he assumes his duties after 15 days of the day of appointment. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 33, "against" three, no "abstained." I understand that we have appointed Mr. Bojan Ninković Secretary of the House of Representatives. We move to a vote on the appointment of Ferid Buljubašić as Secretary of the Joint Service, noting that he assumes his duties on the day of his appointment. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 33, "against" three, "abstained" wasn't enough, entity majority. I find that we have appointed Mr Ferid Buljubašić as Secretary of the Joint Service, noting that he assumes his duties on the day of his appointment. 71 We move to the 21st point of the agenda: The appointment of three members from the House of Representatives to the Joint Commission of both homes to achieve the identical text of the Law on the List of Population, Households and Apartments in BiH in 2013 Glasmosa on the appointment of Milica Marković, Šefik Džaferović and Danijela Martinović as members of the Joint Commission from the House of Representatives. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 33, "against" two, "abstained" wasn't. I agree that we have appointed three members from the House of Representatives – Milica Marković, Šefik Džaferović and Danijela Martinović as members of the Joint Commission from the House of Representatives. Point 22. Resolution Božo Ljubić membership in Interparliamentary Friendship Group VI and appointment of a member in Interparliamentary Friendship Group V Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 33, "against" two, "abstained" wasn't. I find that Mr. Božo Ljubić has been relieved of our memberships in Interparliamentary Friendship Group number VI and appointed as a member of Interparliamentary Friendship Group number V. moliti suggest that we vote first on all agreements from point 23 to point 27. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! For 33, there was no "no" one, "no "no" one. I find that the House of Representatives has decided to vote on the agreements between points 23 and 27 in the package. We vote on granting consent to the ratification of the agreement from points 23 to 27. Prepare to vote Please vote now! Thirty-five, no "against" and no "abstained." I find that we have agreed to ratify the agreement from point 23 to point 27. This closes the 20th session of the House of Representatives. I would like to thank you for your cooperation, and I would like to inform the MPs that the Joint College today has decided to hold two sessions in parallel at home at the meeting. The House of Representatives has two agendas tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. if the Commission agrees with the text common and identical – on the census is one point and the other is the State Aid System Act. Please meet me here tomorrow at 10.00 at the session. Dear counterpart Azra Hadžiahmetović has something after the session is over. Here you go. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8465	I have a suggestion one for the College, I think you'll all agree. When we have consent to ratifications, each agreement is a separate point, each time we declare whether we will consider, vote, etc. I suggest that the College put it all under one item of the agenda with a, b, c) individual agreements. If any of the parliamentarians have an initiative to single out something, then they can signal it, not every time we say twice whether or not we want the package. A suggestion for the College.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8466	Dear Ambassador Jurišić Zvonko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8467	Thank you. I just need to clarify my voice 'against' when it comes to the resolution of my colleague Božo Ljubić from this one, so I'm gonna make him into both of these committees, both in V and in VI, so he...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8468	Dear Mr. Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8469	My suggestion to the Kolegijum only to consider this last decision, namely the proposal of counterpart Azra Hadžiahmetović, who received the majority, whether we stop funding all commissions and all activities similar today. So, given that the decision has passed and it has been made, does this apply to all other activities that are not in line with...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8470	My colleagues and colleagues, if we open up parliamentary questions and answers now, if there's any suggestions for tomorrow's session? Mr. Babalj, did you want to?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8471	Just to thank Mrs. Branka for her cooperation and for...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-02-0.u8472	Mrs. Branka's not leaving for 15 days, there's no need. The seat is closed at 4:20 p.m.
