ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8548	Ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 22nd session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the meeting were invited our regular guests, the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of the current term, representatives of international organisations, embassies in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs, media representatives. The session is also attended by the newly appointed chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, as well as the newly appointed ministers and deputy ministers whose appointment will be decided today by this house. I would like to welcome all accredited diplomatic representatives in BiH who attend today's session, as well as all MPs, guests, and representatives of public information funds. Ladies and gentlemen, in the invitation, we have indicated that the materials for the proposed item of the agenda will be obtained later, given that the session of the Commission to prepare the election of the Council of Ministers of BiH is scheduled for today, before the House session. I hope you've got those materials by now. Here, I just got the information that they're signing. As far as the agenda is concerned, I would just like to point out that the point needs to be reformed, in line with the decision received, and it should read 'Confirmation of the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers'. I'm opening a debate on a draft agenda. I'm closing the debate. I find that the 22nd session of the House of Representatives has its next agenda 1. Confirming the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers 2. We are moving on to the realization of the adopted agenda. Ad. 1. Confirmation of appointments of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy BiH Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8551	I welcome everyone present. And here, I'll call you right back to make us as efficient as possible. So, we from the BiH Party are looking forward to today, it is certain, getting finally the Council of Ministers. As far as personal solutions are concerned, we have absolutely not dealt with them specifically, nor do we have any particular objections to the proposed people. The reasons why I have not voted 'yes' on the Commission to prepare for the appointment of the Council of Ministers, as we will not vote now, are as follows. In practice, more or less of all national parliaments of countries with developed parliamentary democracy are that at the moment of the appointment of a government, a new government, there is a document called either a programme, or a platform, or an agreement, or a contract from which people are visible, or what people are going to do. These documents should also be in some way measures, i.e. an argument to determine whether to support or not to support the proposed government. What do we practically do today, in terms of what I'm talking about, do we have? So we have a six-party agreement on the composition of the Council of Ministers since 28.12.2011, which is obviously very successfully realised, but unfortunately with an unexplainable delay. Obviously, this could have been done a year ago. We have a further political agreement, again six parties, on the alignment of the texts of the Census Act, the State Aid System Act, which I am not going to talk about now, because these laws have been passed, this job is over. Our opinion of those two laws was here. A political agreement has also been reached between these six parties on the adoption of 'The Law on the Financing of BiH Institutions and Service of International Obligations for 2011.' That story lasts despite our warnings that we're taking on an adventure that's anti-constitutional. Unfortunately, that thing still stands open, but the fact that we've produced very negative consequences for the country. That I do not now list what we were saying about ratings, investments, employee uncertainty, etc., etc. We also have the presentation of the chairman, now chairman of the Council of Ministers, here at the House of Representatives of January of the month, which man said was his personal view of things. To the truth, some of the MPs, or members of these six parties, supported parts of his presentation. We have another document that is unfortunately not spoken of. So it is the basis for forming power in the Federation of BiH, but the document is also called the Platform of Joint Performance in 4 BiH institutions in the 2010-2014 term. Parts of the Platform are absolutely acceptable to us, especially when it comes to state property, especially when it comes to the path to NATO and a number of other things, but unfortunately, this movie does not seem to play at this point, or don't blame me if I'm wrong about these orcas, six orcas, four, so I'm not sure if this topic has been discussed and whether the six has accepted and at least part of the Platform. Of course, we also had some remarks on the platform, which we talked about earlier. And the fifth thing that we have today when deciding on support or support is that in the parliamentary procedure here in the House of Representatives, laws on the termination of the Law on the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office have been laid down, and that is from the part of this six-way that is proposing today to us by the Council of Ministers. So, 15 months after the election and the announced programme-parliamentary majority, i.e. the programme-parliamentary majority and changes in the concept of government, we practically have what I was talking about. Bosnia and Herzegovina as a state and its citizens, of course, have the consequences of another species. BiH has no budget, which has never happened since Dayton, BiH has a trend in the collapse of its economy, social tensions, etc., that I am not harassing you now, you know this, and, what is very important, that the way to the EU and NATO, regardless of the adoption of these two laws, has been practically blocked so far, as the roads in BiH are these days. I am afraid, here I am ending, that in 2006-2010, the mandate of 2006-2010, which was fiercely criticised in pre-election campaigns, etc., which signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, will be awarded to the MAP, visa liberalisation, non-permanent participation in the Security Council and a number of other things – being mentioned for good, bearing in mind this 15-month experience, if God Bog a miracle. And I'd like to tell you right now, I love and I love for the sake of the state and for the sake of the citizens of this country to be denied as soon as possible. Here, therefore, are the reasons why we will not support the Council of Ministers' confirmation decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8552	Thank you. Discussion, Reverend Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8553	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, present guests, I will tell you the reasons why the president of the Club of Representatives of the Alliance for a Better Future at today's preparatory meeting, Mr. Mirsad Đugum, voted 'against' and why our club today will also vote 'against' this Council of Ministers in this House. So, we supported Mr. Vjekoslav Bevanda's election as prime minister, and we expected him to propose a personally-capacitated government, a government of experts that could help BiH get 5 out of this crisis that has been going on for too long. But that didn't happen. Even in ministerial positions, failure and incompetent individuals remained proven in the newly proposed places. Bošnjak as a national Corps have not received adequate and economic development ministerial positions in the distribution of the Council of Ministers. We do not think that this proposed Council of Ministers of BiH is able to meet the future economic and social challenges and turmoil that BiH is expecting, following all the processes that we are witnessing, which have already happened in individual EU countries. I would also like to stress that it is inadmissible that there are no women in ministerial positions, which at the highest state level violates the Law on Gender Equality. Following what the honourable representative Mr Belkić said, on behalf of the Alliance for a Better Future, I am expressing my satisfaction that BiH will get the Council of Ministers today and I sincerely hope that we will be denied quickly and that all of this we have presented as a reason to vote 'against' will not be in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8554	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8555	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, I want to say several sentences in this, in my opinion, an important moment for BiH. Both the moment and BiH and what I think should be done in BiH, after we today give support to appointed ministers by the chairman of the Council of Ministers. This is the sixth general election by Dejton, this is the Sixth Council of Ministers. Three were rotating for eight months with the chairman, and this is the third where the chairman is elected for four years, where ministers are elected for four years and where there is no rotation. As with last time and last time, one finding can be expressed freely, and it is that BiH is in this specific and issue of the coalition in BiH is not a matter of desire and agreement, but it is primarily a matter of the country's constitutional structure and, of course, the election result. And you are very often in a position in BiH to respect, of course, and it should be respected, the constitutional structure of the country and the election result, sometimes you are not in a position to make very best agreements when it comes to executive power, including the Council of Ministers of BiH. Today we will appoint the Council of Ministers, and already 16, we, who today will vote for the Council of Ministers and those who vote against the Council of Ministers, when we vote on the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, that is, these laws, which have entered the parliamentary procedure, on the termination of validity, whether these institutions – vote completely different. Then the same party will find those who were "for" and "against" the Council of Ministers. And this is the best example that in BiH we are still unable, respecting the election result and constitutional structure,... to make a programme coalition and on the basis of the programme coalition to act. I live in a day, and I want it to happen as soon as possible, when those two things in BiH will come together. When, while respecting the election result and the constitutional structure of this country, it will be able to create an appropriate programme coalition that will implement everything it has written in its programme. We've written six programs so far. And of course, these things have been happening and the way I'm saying it, and it's not real enough so far. But regardless of this, when we look at the process, I see that BiH is moving forward, no matter what I want it to be much faster, which I would like to be much more effective, because when we compare the situation from before, the state of BiH in 2002, and the state of BiH today, we will see that, regardless of all the problems and all the difficulties, BiH is in a far better position and I would say much more orderly than it was in 2002. The 2002-2006 period was a period strongly supported by the international community. In 2006, the international community decided, I find it unwarranted, because it is part of the Dayton Peace Agreement and BiH cannot operate under the Dayton Peace Agreement unless it has Dayton's prescribed activities of the international community, and BiH has stood up from 2006 to 2010 in a kind of blockade, primarily political one, and this, of course, has been reflected in the functioning of the Council of Ministers and Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I hope that the time from 2006 to 2010 was the time in which everyone became crystal clear in BiH that the blockade would not be worth anything to anyone. And I call today, giving my vote for this Council of Ministers, I call on you, conveying the legitimacy of directly elected representatives in the elections, to you in the area of the executive authority and implementing the laws and policies that are established here in Parliament – to work in the interests of this country and to make as few of you as possible of these differences. And that these two things that I spoke about at the beginning of my discussion were brought together as soon as possible both in your work and in the work of this Parliament. We'll all be better off if that happens. The BiH economy is in stagnation, everything is in stalemate, and I expect this Council of Ministers to strongly withdraw this country, so from this impasse forward, to pull this country towards the EU and the NATO alliance. I know you don't have much, that we as a state level don't have a lot of ingenuity when it comes to economics, but we can if we want to animated everyone in BiH that when it comes to the economy, and social protection, and health care, and infrastructure, education and everything that life means to make a step forward. In this context, you have my vote today, with the desire to act in this way, and my vote on your projects coming to the BiH Parliament will depend primarily on these things that I have spoken of, how much they will correspond to this. I congratulate you again and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8556	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8557	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Chairman of the Presidency, members of the College, colleagues and fellow Members, candidates for ministers and deputies, distinguished guests, I particularly welcome former colleagues, or colleagues from the call, the previous Council of Ministers, pardon, Parliamentary Assembly. Let us begin at the very beginning, before we begin the discussion, just to make one correction, or correction of the wrong quote. Mrs. Dervoz, I just want to tell you, on the basis of the 7th minutes, that a member of your club, whom you said you voted 'against' on the Commission, was 'against', out of 20 proposed candidates, only 'against' the appointment of Mr. Špirić and Mr. Kasumović and Mr. Ahmetović, and all the other candidates Mr. Đugum supported at the meeting of the Commission. So, just one little correction, correction of the quote. Since Mr. Džaferović, as a lawyer, spoke about the economy, I guess I should talk about law as an economist, but I won't. I will show you just a little bit, in addition to the argumentation of the BiH Party's position, under quotes, 'new spirit', that is, the continuity that Mr. Bevanda did well in his opening speech said before, more and I don't know when, long ago, in January of the month, here's a month. So, what's this about? I just want to remind you a little bit, given the previous assembly, that is, before the general elections, all those who performed high duties at the state, entity, or local level, that of the proposal, including the Chairman-in-Office of the Council of Ministers and Ministers, therefore 10, nine ministers and including the chairman-in-Office of the 10th, eight and 80%, respectively, had previously performed a high duty at the state, entity, or local level. Or to mention more specifically: of the 20 names proposed today, including the deputy ministers, i.e. the deputy ministers, 12 and 60%, respectively, were in the previous meeting on responsible duties. When we look at the Council of Ministers' call, that it's about continuity, here I will also tell you that of the nine ministers, we have five of them in the new Council of Ministers, or 55.5%. So much for the new ghost, huh? Or in a total of 20 names, when we combine the old and new Council of Ministers, we have eight names, or 40% in the new council. If we look at a new spirit when it comes to party structure, there has indeed been a major change. And that is what promises, probably, which is that the two parties in the new meeting with the specific weight of one party in the old council or to translate: SDP and SDS have replaced the Party for BiH, so I expect a really large newspaper and a special paper in work, i.e. the way it works. When we look at the situation within the party, let's say HDZ has offered us really new personalities in the image of Mr. Bevanda, as the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who we know, is he, as finance minister in the previous Federation meeting; Mr. Čolak, who is also a newspaper in the Council of Ministers (is that right, Mr. Čolak?; Ms. Marina Pendeš, who is also a newspaper in the Council of Ministers. We also have a newspaper coming from the SDA: Mr Ibrahimović, who acted high in the Federation Parliament; Mr Kasumović, who is also a newspaper, and how new every day we have the opportunity to see, especially in the media. Most newspapers come from SNSD: these are the distinguished Mr. Nović and Mr. Špirić especially, as a new figure, right. And of course, Mrs. Ana Trišić-Babić-Babic, all the new names. Since the HDZ 1990 also a new character, Mr Damir Ljubić, who in his previous meeting was, to remind, a minister in the Federation government; Mr Rudo Vidović, who is also a newspaper in this parliament, etc. So, a lot of new characters on the political scene in the new council, which promises, need citizens to know that this all promises some significant progress, i.e. significant changes, right. To mention, let's say that, although Mrs Dervoz mentioned an inadequate sexual structure, this Parliament and the House of Representatives, which, as we know, has its own working bodies, also has its own Commission for Gender Equality, which is consciously expecting in June 2011, so last year in June, eight, nine months ago, called for, among other things, a reminder of the obligation to comply with the provisions of the law adopted by this Parliamentary Assembly and according to which gender equality exists when one of the sexes is represented at least 40%, or that there is discrimination. In particular, the chairman of this commission also called for certain members of this law. And here, let's see how things are in that proposal. Let's say, of the total candidates, or candidates, we have nine eight ministers, or zero percent of women, only for those who would possibly suffer to calculate, right? From the old one to the deputy, or deputy, of 20, the total proposal, five and 25%, respectively, will be in the new Council of Ministers' meeting at the level of the deputies. So, not even close to that border defined by the law passed by this Parliamentary Assembly. If we look at it a little bit and partyly, I won't be very long at all, but I want to be on one party, which is the SDA – which traditionally neither in the old assembly of the House of Representatives, nor in this meeting of the House of Representatives, nor in the old Council of Ministers, and here in this new Council of Ministers' meeting, when we look at both ministers and deputies, or proposed candidates – there are 0% of women. So the proposal is 0%, which is the continuity of course of the SDA, not to be angry with colleagues, that is, we know who we are a little longer in Parliament, when and how you correct the sexual structure of this Parliament. Sometimes and unfortunately, considering and leaving, different ways of leaving our colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with what Belkić mentioned as arguments for, of course, non-voting, which has absolutely no personal, or personal relations, or has nothing to do with individual candidates, I would like to mention in particular that some of these arguments, which I have shown here in this quantification, speak of, under quotes, newspapers in the new spirit. And especially given the fact that this paper represents more continuity – less even mathematical – and far from the programme coalition, as it represented the public, and also here, of course, both colleagues and colleagues in Parliament. Especially since here, as I have stated, some proposals are about the drastic violation and the law passed by this Parliamentary Assembly, and to mention in particular the international conventions to which BiH has committed itself as a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8558	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Aleksandra Pandurević.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8559	Thank you, Chairman. My replica refers to Mrs Hadžiahmetović's statement and her findings that SDP and SDS replaced the BiH Party in the Council of Ministers. Mrs. Hadžiahmetović, I understand that it is difficult for you to, as Mr. Lagumdžija said last time, before the fall of the Berlin Wall, for the first time since that time, you are going to the opposition and I understand that it is really difficult for you to see your party as a result of this long-standing rule of eight MPs now come up to two. The SDS has entered the Council of Ministers based on the electoral legitimacy it has acquired. Is that Mr. Lagumdžija, the fact, will replace Mr. Alkalaj; is that right, Mr. Lagumdžija? And we are, so we are entering the Council of Ministers based on the Serb votes we received in RS. The BiH party had Bosniak votes in the Federation, and that is why you have been participating in power. And we will really do our best to make this Council of Ministers as effective as possible, that the better it works and that we will surely propose, at least as far as our member of the Council of Ministers, a solution that will be a fruit of consensus and acceptable to all. So, during this future period, we are ready to work together, and even to respect every good proposal that comes from the Party for BiH as an opposition party. Thank you. 9
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8560	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8561	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished members of the Presidency, Council of Ministers, guests, so here I will join all those who are delighted that today after 500 days we have an opportunity to discuss the new Council of Ministers' meeting. And it is certain that that is why we are all overjoyed, because we are too happy that the agreement has finally come to an end and is now only expected to be in the clerical atmosphere – what it is like in these situations when you expect the fulfillment of all your wishes, and so your wishes and wishes come true – we welcome and support the new chairman and all of his ministers, and we formally give our support. And support is more than expected, as we have heard and how we see it, so can anyone even question the months-long effort and sacrifice of our leaders who have all agreed on our behalf, who, after the painful negotiations, have come to a final solution with which everyone is pleased. Everyone gets what they want, everyone announces rapid prosperity and only waits for us, whose people have given mandates to decide on their behalf, to give formal consent to the new ministers who prepare for 16 months to take the expected positions, full of elan and impatience, to make up for all the lost time. That is why it is so normal to forget these unfortunate 16 months and to allow the new members of the Council of Ministers to start realising all planned and long-awaited reforms as soon as possible. I guess those 16 months will forget as soon as possible and all the fired soldiers, and all the exiles, and all the fired, and all the never-employed workers, and all the businessmen, and all the citizens who have suffered because of those 16 months, who suffer today and everyone who is just going to suffer. It is therefore good to hurry up and do our duty as soon as possible so as not to be in the way of all expected and desired reforms. I will certainly not be on the path of such wanted reforms, nor will I talk about the programme because we have not heard, or we have heard that the new Council of Ministers' meeting does not have a joint programme, which is already seen as the basis of some initiatives from parties that make up the parliamentary majority. I'm going to keep an eye on what was mostly discussed and what was obviously a dispute over the last 16 months. And right away, I want to say that there will be nothing personal or personal to any member of the Council of Ministers in this regard. I know all the members of the Council of Ministers well, and I wish them every good, both in person and on a professional basis, all of them and I appreciate people. I just want to remind you of some facts, I would like to remind you of the fact that a number of colleagues in this House have already reminded us that this Parliamentary Assembly has passed a Law on Gender Equality, which has translated the most European and global standards, when it comes to gender equality. I am the President-in-Office of the Committee for Gender Equality of this House, together with eight other colleagues and colleagues, almost a year ago we concluded at the Committee unanimously, delivered to all participants of this process, and also to the new chairman of the Council of Ministers, with the intention of reminding them of the provisions of this law which say that at all levels, at least 40% of the representation of persons of less-represented sex must be ensured. It was none of our own arbitrary will, we as a committee of this House, as representatives of this House, above all, and above all others, should also respect the laws that this House of Representatives makes. We see that in the new Council of Ministers' meeting, there is not a single percentage of gender representation. I will remind all those who may not have recently remembered that the Council of Ministers' Law says the Council of Ministers is the chairman and minister. So Deputy Ministers 10 are not members of the Council of Ministers. In addition to the fact that such a composition of the Council of Ministers is not in line with the Law on Gender Equality, it is also a very ugly message to all BiH women, all MPs in this House, all members of the political parties who are taking part in the new Council of Ministers' meeting and all members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the same House of Representatives. This is a message that our political leaders, as well as the new chairman of the Council of Ministers as the doer of their political will, have so much confidence in women that they allow them to somehow get to the deputy ministers, but not a step further. This is a message that it does not adhere to the country's laws very much, especially if the laws are contrary to the principles of human policy in party signatories of the agreement. I don't blame the chairman of the Council of Ministers, he's just a good performer of six political wills expressed through... the proposal of candidates. If we further analyse the composition of the new Council of Ministers, you will notice that from the largest constituency from which six representatives of this House are elected directly, there is not a single minister in the new Council of Ministers' meeting. It is an electoral unit from which I come, along with my colleague Džaferović, with counterpart Mehmedović, with counterpart Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic, with counterpart Mešić and with counterpart Bašić, who, however, is not in these parties who signed the agreement. From that election unit, however, there are no leaders of any political party. Only replacement positions are reserved for that constituency. But that's why there are almost more ministers from some election units than there are MPs. It is important that the leaders are satisfied, and for voters we will easily find some explanation for them. And in the end, we come to what I think is most interesting in this staff puzzle, a painfully complicated full 16 months, about which full consent has been reached by all six leaders of political parties who are participating in a new puzzle called the Council of Ministers. All members of the Council of Ministers are Hrvat exclusively from Herzegovina, all Bošnjak exclusively from Bosnia and all Srbin exclusively from RS. In the Council of Ministers neither theoretically, and in particular, he couldn't practically stray a single Bošnjak from Herzegovina, as far as I'm concerned, which some will say, so let's just say that it's none of my business, even though it's not, because also by any unwritten rule or coincidence, so some might say, neither can Bosnia nor any Hrvat, so what, and that has to do with it. It seems that political theory and practice, which I thought was part of the uglier part of our political past, is returning to a large door here in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly – Bosniaks Bosnia, Croats, and Srbin of srpski. All others who have found themselves, survived or returned to the wrong places, today have received a fierce shower and the final warning of their political leaders – everyone on their territory so that long and happy lives in peace and prosperity. Feeling the direction and purpose of our leaders' arrangements, I was "abstained" in confirming Mr. Bevanda's appointment. And it wasn't any technical or political mistake. Only then was I not quite sure which direction things were going to develop further, so I was "abstained." Today, when the dilemma is gone, when it is clear that the leaders have determined that women in this country can be maximum deputies, that they too from the wrong space, no matter what, cannot be further from the deputies – I have decided not to be 'abstained'. Today I am a clear and loud "against" of this Council of Ministers, and not personally, because I personally appreciate all those I know in the new Council of Ministers' meeting personally. I am against a political concept that has led to this kind of appeal because it is my human and political obligation and against the voters of my electoral unit, and against all women in this country, and against my duty in the Committee in which I am headed, and against all the peoples and citizens of this country. I clearly and loudly deny support to such a concept, expressing my strongest opposition. Thank you very much. 11
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8562	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Nermin Purić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8563	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and fellow representatives and esteemed guests, media representatives, I welcome you all together. And here, at the beginning of the exhibition, I would also like to express my satisfaction that we are finally on the agenda to confirm the composition of the new Council of Ministers of BiH, but at the same time, I would also like to express my dissatisfaction that we have waited so long for all of this, although it could have been completed five days after the election results were confirmed. In the context of the debate on the appointment of Mr Vjekoslav Bevanda as the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, I have said, and I have continued this position, that the concept by which the Council of Ministers of BiH is formed is therefore not good and that it is unsustainable. The bloc's division of authorities by ethnicity on the Bosniak, Croatian and Serbian parties is not good and does not bring the necessary changes for the better and more efficient functioning of BiH, as this means a continuation of the current practice and the current relationship on the political scene in BiH, which has led this country to uncertainty and lagging behind on all grounds for a long time. Entering power at all costs and in combinations that are illogical and dysfunctional is another trick and another Sarajevo assassination, but this time on the minds of citizens of this country, an assassination we do not know about will have consequences. To form a Council of Ministers just to share chairs without a joint real-estate programme on the platform, mutual treasuries and views diametrically contrary to dark issues and problems in BiH, and at the same time expect all of this to work nicely, only extreme optimists can do so, so as not to call them otherwise. The BiH Democratic People's Community does not consider this a good way and anyone who supports the formation of this Council of Ministers on these grounds must also be prepared to accept his share of responsibility for all that will come next. As for personal solutions, so for ministers and deputies, and deputy ministers, their similarity is unquestionable, so have the competent agencies that have carried out the checks, and I thus congratulate them all and, of course, wish them all their personal happiness and health and success in their work, however, for principled reasons, as I did on the Commission for preparing the Council of Ministers' election, I will not support this proposal, but it does not mean that in me personally and in the Democratic People's Community of BiH, the new Council of Ministers will not have support, especially in activities in the fight against poverty, which is the biggest problem of BiH citizens of all nationalities and all religious and political beliefs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8564	Thank you. Although I have little concern that this could be about conflict of interest, but also given that no confirmation of the appointment of ministers, deputies, and no oath has been taken, you are practically still an MP and you have the word. Dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8565	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. So, as you yourself have noticed, I am still an MP, an MP and, yes, after the vote, we will see to what extent that status will change. But while that is the case, although Mr Džaferović told me that I am an MP with a good perspective, which I will give myself a hint that this could go in a certain direction that is already expected. At last session of the House of Representatives when we only appointed, or confirmed the mandate, we heard some discussions that are unfortunately repeated today. I'm obliged to say a few things for a number of reasons. First, because last time, a respected colleague, Belkić, said he would regret that I was no longer here, and I really want to make him happy with this discussion that I am leaving this place and will no longer have the chance to look back on myself. But I'm obliged to say here, for a few things, a few words. I'm impressed by something called hypocrisis, hypocrisy, double archaics, inconsistency, whatever you want, which we've heard here. I am surprised that the people who voted in favour of the past Council of Ministers in this House five years ago appear here today as pieces of opposition or me unclear position, or opposition in their own parties, which are all of this as arguments, five years ago were their arguments to be for that Council of Ministers. So, for example. Five years ago when we only had two deputies at the Council of Ministers, then it was all logical, now that we have five, it's little for the same people. I received a letter as president of the party from the esteemed representative Lozančić in his capacity as president of the Commission for Gender Equality. I, as party president, had the opportunity to fight in my party for the majority who supported that of the five people coming from the SDP, two from one sex and three from the other sex. You can see what sex it is. On the other hand, if the gentlemen, or colleagues of Hadžiahmetović, who showed that, as usual, the Party for BiH is great at counting and calculating, throwing out the figures from 100% to not even know how much today, if they were so consistent, I don't know which of the two ministers were the minister, given that they must have supported it in accordance with their current principles and attitudes. I don't know, I don't meddle in their inside pocket and internal affairs, and I don't think of it, but I have to admit that in this Council of Ministers, I am giving you my personal assessment as a representative, I have the right to do so, I am responsiblely saying that none, and I am willing to enter into debate on this subject – that no worse solution comes to any place than the last term. That there are better solutions, too, I'm prepared to defend. Look, I know we're going to miss the energy of the Human Rights and Refugees Minister, I know we're going to miss the responsibility of the Foreign Minister, I know we're going to miss a lot of things, but what's there? Now, you can see and I really appreciate what I've seen, however, that we have objectively two blocks in opposition. We see that it has the freshness of this new bloc of opposition leaders, if, behold, I hope that my colleague Tihić will not mind that I praise part of the opposition, or the leader of the opposition. Mr. Đugum was very clear on the Commission. He said that if he could vote one by one, they'd give some a vote. But since unfortunately they have to vote for all of us, then they can't because of a few of these people that they've made very clear. And I appreciate it very much. On the other hand, I just want to remind you that Mr. Bevanda, in his previous presentation, at the last session, made it very clear that he gave the framework, the programming framework that we had already discussed 13, and also said that the Council of Ministers would come out with its programme the moment it was established. And I believe that the Prime Minister, that is, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, will implement that promise. On the other hand, there is little to say in a series of and malignant remarks, a statement that SDP and SDS have replaced the Party for BiH, do not be angry, but no one can replace you. He can't, he can't, I mean, you're really a miracle of nature from the fall of the Berlin Wall to today and thank Bog that miracle of nature goes into political history. And it doesn't occur to us to replace our future with yours. And you don't need to worry, you'll have your place, you'll be irreplaceable, you'll be remembered as people, you two, who in this House killed five years shooting at the April 2006 package. And that's what I'm saying here, because I know all of this today would be different and I believe better for all of us, but history can't change, the past can't change. And you will remain remembered as the people who did what you did. If I were you, I'd sleep restlessly about it. And because of the numbers and the bills that you and your men are experts for, there's someone who doesn't sleep. And finally, I want to say very clearly that I sincerely hope that the curse we heard from Mr Belkić here, and I treat this as a curse, when he said that the term of office from 2006 to 2010 would be mentioned for good. God Bog such a thing should happen to us, so that the period from 2006 to 2010 and your participation in the work of this Council of Ministers may be mentioned for good. Because believe me, if that happens, this country has a much bigger problem than we've had with you, the kind of energetic and responsible you've always been. And, is it, I hope that my dear colleagues and colleagues will still have a higher degree of tolerance for this step of mine, because you won't look at me anymore, at least three years in this conference, and I don't think I'll ever see you again in these benches, since you really do have and have plenty of you with compensatory capacity and similar capacities which, after all, end up as everything that is unconsistent, hypocritical and based solely on a purely private account.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8566	Thank you. Let's take the line of the line. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8567	Well, here, Mr. Lagumdžija, I wouldn't have broken this atmosphere, nor would I have at this, to say, the last session where we're together in particular replicating something if it wasn't for this finger, you know. A little, a little finger. It's not very pleasant to listen to or watch and words along that finger, that something remembered sleep, you can, you can't, you're this, you're that. So, I was saying that it's a great shame for this parliament that Mr. Lagumdžija is leaving, I meant it. So he seriously thought it was a shame that one so experienced, capable, smart politician was leaving Parliament. That's what I really meant. The other thing is what he had to do with Parliament. As for the BiH Party and everything Mr Lagumdžija said, we paid for it. So we lost the election and we respect the will of the citizens, among other things, and because of what Mr. Lagumdžija was talking about. But you've won the election by pointing out these mistakes and promising a new concept of a changed programme coalition, a new spirit, etc. It's been 15 months and we have the right as an opposition to point out that. So, just, it's like that. 14 As for these opposition pieces, I can say to you that you are a piece of authority, too, but come on. So, I want all the best. And when I said that I was afraid, I said that in 2006 and 2010, not thinking about that mandate would be particularly successful, but I listed some things that are facts, I'm afraid that we don't get into a situation, bearing in mind how things are going so far, to mention 2006-2010 as one period that is good. So, I have no intention of making some kind of imprecise atmosphere, etc. Here, I want you all to be happy again and we'll see each other, Mr. Lagumdžija, here, I hope you'll be there, I'll be there and we'll do it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8568	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8569	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, even though we have come today in this very ugly time to finish this job and to choose the Council of Ministers, it is obvious that individual discussions by the representatives of the Bosniak political parties can destabilise this session and act quite destabilisingly, and we, who come from a stable part of BiH, are obliged to positively influence this part without doing so. We call for peace and tolerance among Bosniak political parties and we also offer intermediate services in this time of snow and kijameta because there is time now to intervene and negotiate, especially those who have cleaned the snow can move on to that kind of activity. Of these comments, I will abstain from the representatives of the Croatian people because the question, after this discussion, whether they can destabilise and destabilize and whether they can help and break anything. We call for this session to be brought to an end, to choose the Council of Ministers since we do not need this speaker today, and it is obvious that we are beginning to use it for some personal frustrations, for an answer and for an excuse why someone will do what they intend and do. And I don't think there's any need, we'll have time to say a lot in the Council of Ministers, our starting point of view of what we've been saying, here, for a whole year and some time. I don't think this story about women is controversial. The House of Representatives should not lecture others on women, for in no congregation this house chose no woman in the College, and it did not bother those who were members of the Kolegijum, and then we should not give a lecture to others. When I see people from the U.S.A., here's Mr. Sarajlić and the others, I don't believe they're in any bad relationship with women and they have... so I think we should stop this kind of story and try to bring this session to an end today, choose the long-awaited Council of Ministers. We will have time to get rid of this snow (I hope successfully), long and long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8570	Thank you. Replica, Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go. 15
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8571	Thank you, Chairman. I have no business opportunity to call what I'm going to call a different replica, although I have no intention at all of replicating my fellow Lagumdžija, because I don't really know what he's talking about, my discussion or the arguments that I've mentioned. Because I didn't absolutely give any connotation, and whether or not the number has a sign, whether the statistics can be colored one way or the other, I really don't know. I know he knows a colleague named Lagumdžija a little better than I do. Secondly, the fact that everything else is the same, if I have to do it again, I'm going to repeat my discussion, even the names, and I'm sorry that I mentioned it. Indeed, it has absolutely nothing to do with any of the proposed candidates, or candidates, but that all the changes, or newspapers, come down to the party for BiH, or instead of the Party for BiH, which on the night the first results of the elections were announced said that we were going into opposition; therefore, we have absolutely no other calculations or had them in the past to introduce SDS, or SDP, in place of the BiH Party in office, or in power, on the basis of election results. Here, by the way, indeed, although it didn't deserve any replica, but my colleague Pandurević, to mention, of course, that the SDS, as you pointed out, received Serbian votes. Because I really don't know, maybe there is, even though I don't breathe Serbian-Bosnian, but I don't know that there is one Bošnjak who voted for the SDS. I mean, I'm sure you got it mostly based on Serbian votes. Secondly, my colleague Lagumdžija, I remember well the contents of your discussions and also your discussions when the previous Council of Ministers has been elected. I know very well how we took a break on your request, a request from the SDP MPs' Club that requested the delivery of the programme of the chairman of the Council of Ministers in written form, which you have very reasonedally analysed, referred to with the language of the arguments to certain parts of that programme, i.e. the exposoe. If, on behalf of the party, we reminded you last time, so everything, I don't mean personally you but generally all my colleagues and colleagues in Parliament, of that fact, and that we are now in a position not to have a document, not to mention the exposés of the Council of Ministers, that our committees have been delivered to us after both colleagues Belkić and I have completed the discussion, etc., if you have found something in this inadequately, indeed, we are just learning opposition behavior, so if we have learned anything from the SDP in the previous period as you have treated it perfectly.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8572	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8573	Second, another thing that really deserves special attention. I know that my colleague Belkić and I will be remembered for many things, especially in the heads of some present in the hall. But equally, my colleague Lagumdžija, whether I agree or not about it, agrees with me individually or not on individual opinions, I know that you are a great advocate of democracy, so respect both democratic and different opinions. Because if you speak in person that my colleague Belkić and I will remain remembered that we killed some April package, I can also ask you if you as someone who was really particularly engaged in that April package, as you called it, have provided a sufficient number of votes to enter this House or is understood that everyone should vote as they imagine. 16
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8574	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8575	We are a piece of opposition, but this reminder of me, that is, correcting the wrong quote in the discussion of colleague Dervoz, was, although, Mr. Lagumdžija, I really think you've had it too much in your discussion. I respect different opinions, etc., but it was only a correction that he was a member of the Alliance for a Better Future, so next to us pieces of this piece of your opposition, that he was "against" all the candidates proposed. Maybe I'd do the same thing...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8576	Dear Messengers, time, please!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8577	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8578	I thank you, too. First Vice-President, honourable Ambassador Božo Ljubić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8579	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8580	Replica, dear Ambassador Zlatko Lagumdžija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8581	It's my turn to take advantage of this possibility. A few corrections to the wrong allegations. I haven't shown anyone a finger, and even if I wanted to show my finger, I probably wouldn't have done anything to you. Also, colleague Hadžiahmetović, unlike you who do not know what your replica refers to, so then you had it, I know what this is about. I want to make it very clear to you thematically. Of the five people who come from the SDP, counterparts Sarajlić and Salkičević and counterparts Čavar and Hadžić and I, we are coming to the positions that are, you can review this in the previous Council of Ministers' meeting, two of the positions we come to were occupied with people from the Party for BiH, one from the SDA and one from HDZ and one from HDZ 1990. So much for the facts and mathematics we replaced, if that's what you're looking at. Second, I'm sorry third, you're right when you told me that I might have gone carelessly into the April package, believed in him, believing that the people with whom we had all started to bring this to an end. And you're right, I was wrong. I believed that you who participated in this will be consistent to the end and I was wrong—you were not consistent. I was wrong to believe that you, indeed, when you were full of BiH mouths were... I believed that you honestly meant it, and that it wasn't just a calculator pre-election campaign and I believed that you would be in the process in which we worked together. And you are this faith; behold, I have sinned; ye have betrayed, and I have sinned. 17 And the last thing in this replica, you are quite right to learn to be an opposition, and you will need a lot more, you are a professor and you will learn it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8582	Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, if you need more replication or something?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8583	Well, you know what, this is more of a misstatement. So, my colleague Lagumdžija, I have not participated from the very beginning in what you said April package, but from the very beginning we have been very clear as a party that we will also support that package that was proposed, and some others who were in the game, provided that our amendment is accepted, and that is the abolition of entity voting. And I'm really starting to wonder how that you who have always been against entity voting are referring to the argument that we had in our position, if it's even worth mentioning that after so much time it's been talked about. So, colleague Lagumdžija, I'll just add that we'll probably see you in this room in the next period, though not exactly four years, because here's two and a half. Although you don't have to express your satisfaction that you won't be, because you will still be, I hope, and as a minister sometimes in this House, you promised to bring in some new spirit, so here's how it is. Personally, everything you've called was denied by my statistics by nothing, by any number or by any percentage or by any percentage per cent... and you've made a different argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8584	Thank you. First Vice-President, honourable Ambassador Božo Ljubić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8585	Dear colleagues and fellow representatives, respected colleagues, chairman of the House of Peoples, members of the Bureau, members of the Council of Ministers, present and future, honored guests, firstly to address you briefly on behalf of the Committee as chairman of the Committee for the Election of the Council of Ministers. I can say that the Commission has made a recommendation to the candidates appointed by the chairman, Mr Bevanda, for ministers and deputy ministers. I also do not want to miss and say that all members of the commission from the future position and opposition have expressed themselves with the chosen words about candidates. So no one slowed down the expertise, competence, or credibility of the candidates. On the other hand, let me now say a few words as a representative of this House, if you will as a representative of the Croatian bloc's parties who will do this to the Council of Ministers. I would like to say and express my satisfaction that the Council of Ministers has been proposed, and I am confident that it will be confirmed, on the principles on which BiH can function, continue to develop into a self-sustainable and functional state. The fact that the state itself does not fully justify these same principles is an additional challenge for both the Council of Ministers and before us representatives and the entire public of BiH to change the Constitution in this direction. This will also be of crucial importance to the success of this Council of Ministers, because the blockades that have been happening in the past, and they have been, I am convinced that they have never been motivated by the blockades themselves, that 18 states and all its people are worse, but in the background of everything, I am convinced, were certain of certain fears. Now, we need such a state and such institutions to eliminate such fear. All together we need to build institutions, especially judicial ones, in this BiH state that will earn the trust of all citizens and all three peoples in BiH. I am convinced that this is the interest of all of us, especially the time ahead and the challenges facing BiH on its Euro-Atlantic path, and I hope that all of us together are looking for the current action and that is why we, from Parliament's leadership, have decided to call this session in this difficult time to get to the Council of Ministers as soon as possible. I personally know most of the proposed candidates of ministers and deputies and keep them fully competent to perform the functions they have been nominated for. When there's nothing to object to the candidates, then there's an argument that it's not an expert government. I want that myth, too, so to speak, of experts in governments to be broken. The experience, at least I know, says that expert governments are formed mostly when political agreement cannot be reached. Here we are fortunately, the truth after a long time, reached a political agreement. On the other hand, talk about government experts with such condensed resors, so where all functions are compressed into nine resors – and let's remind Croatia, which may have fewer challenges than BiH, has 20 resolutions for the same challenges – I don't think it's right. The competence of these people that we're going to confirm today, I'm sure, will be looked at to what extent they will be able to hire experts for those sectors in their resories where they need them. Let me also say, as the leader of one of the Croatian parties here, in the past Council of Ministers, we had a minister at the Council of Ministers and he was from central Bosnia. If the distribution of the resistor was what I asked for, it would have been again, so I think we're taking care of it and we'll take care of it. And finally, I would like to recommend as president of the House Committee that, on behalf of the Committee, we confirm this to the Council of Ministers, to give him support in the work and success of this Council of Ministers will depend on their work, on their competence, which I have no doubt, and even more than the climate in BiH, the political climate that we are all going to create here together. And then when I say all together, then I mean both the position and the opposition in this parliament and the entire public in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8586	Thank you. The second vice-president, honourable MP Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8587	The esteemed chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, respected chairman of the BiH presidency, the esteemed chairman of the Council of Ministers, respected candidates for ministers and deputies, esteemed guests and representatives of the media, regardless of the individual discussions today, however, it should be said that today is an important moment for the BiH state and I believe that the task is to all of us, regardless of whether we are within the ruling six or opposition, and that we all try together to create a more positive and better atmosphere in this country. Today we need to get a new Council of Ministers of BiH. Last week, the Parliamentary Assembly, one home and another passed two important laws – the State Aid System Act and the Census Act. These are, however, the first initial positive signals for this country. 19 I hope that we will all recognize it together with representatives of the international community, we have talked about it and with the High Representative, here is Mr Sorensen, and with him, and that we will try all together in one synergy for this country to move forward. We in this country know very well that there are a lot of political forces who know they're talking about what they're up against, who know they're breaking the deal, but it's time for us all to show together that we know what we're up against, not just what we're up against. It's time we all tried to think a little bit about the future together. Today is also the time in the coming weeks and months to finally show all together a greater political responsibility, political maturity, but also a willingness for this country to go where it belongs – into Euro-Atlantic integration. In this country today, it is especially important to say: there is room for everyone, for all its peoples, for all its citizens, there is room in this country for both position and opposition. We are all in Parliament, and in the Council of Ministers, and in the Presidency, on temporary work, and people will only appreciate us for what we do or don't do, but we are all tasked with whether we are in opposition or in a position to create this positive political atmosphere. This country, the peoples of this country, the citizens of this country need agreements, they need compromises and they need steps. We must all learn together that compromises are not defeat, compromises, healthy compromises are a common benefit for all peoples and citizens in this country. We don't need to know too much about this country, so we need to know that this country has strayed off the European road. In the coming months, we BiH must pull out of the mud in which, metaphorically I will say, this car called BiH has been for years and we must take it out on the European path. And that's why today, after all these discussions, is a great opportunity to repeat a few important things, which is that we have clear goals and clear paths. What are our common goals? At least no one denies it in this House, that is, under number one: to submit an application for EU membership in the coming months, to take over the questionnaire, to fill out this questionnaire, to gain candidate country status and to start EU membership negotiations. I think if we get together, first of all around that track and about those goals, it can be better for all of us together in this country.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8588	Dear Ambassador Mladen Bosić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8589	Thank you, Chairman. Here I think it's time for BiH to get a new Council of Ministers. That's why we came here, and I want to take the opportunity to congratulate the opposition on their presentations today, to expect that it will also be critical of the new Council of Ministers, and we promise that we will also be critical of the Council of Ministers for everything we consider not to be doing well. Bosnia and Herzegovina has been in deep political, economic, moral and any other crisis for a long time. The crisis is getting deeper than the 2010 elections. The motive for stabilising the political situation in BiH has led us to actively participate and contribute to the formation of BiH institutions, just as they are foreseen by the Constitution and the Dayton Agreement. According to our assessment, the new composition of the Council of Ministers has experienced people, has enough knowledge and, if it has enough political support and enough will, can contribute to the stabilisation of political situations which is in the interest of all citizens in BiH. 20 With that in mind, I congratulate them in advance, and give them a choice, and once again to wish the opposition would be as active in their criticism as it was today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8590	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote to confirm the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Please prepare yourselves. You can vote now! 'For' 26, 'against' seven,'restricted' one, with a sufficient entity majority and I find that we have confirmed the appointment of ministers, deputy ministers and deputy chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers. Please, I urge the Chair of the Council of Ministers, Ministers and Deputy Ministers to make a solemn statement. Please I'll read, you'll repeat after me.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8592	'I declare
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8593	Declaring
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8594	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8595	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8596	I respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8597	I respect the BiH Constitution, 21
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8598	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8599	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8600	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8601	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-10-0.u8602	Let me congratulate you. [[APLAuz]] Just one notice, so we're closing the session. The next session is scheduled for 16.2.2012. Thank you for your cooperation and pleasant. The seat is closed at 14.40.
