ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8604	I am opening the 23rd session of the Parliamentary House of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Parliamentary Assembly. Our regular guests were invited to the meeting by the chairman and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly monitor the work of our home, representatives of certain NGOs, as well as representatives of the media. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. Ambassador Nermin Purić announced a delay. According to service information, there are 26 MPs present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. Before we move to the agenda, we have a few previous questions. Namely, honourable MP Senad Šepić delivered a notice to consume the parliament's mandate from today. I welcome him, welcome and successful work here in Parliament. On the other hand, the Central Election Commission of BiH delivered to the House on the termination of the term of office of Zlatko Lagumdžija and awarded the mandate to the next qualified candidate from the Social Democratic Party of BiH, which is Ante Domazet; Bariši Čolak and awarded the mandate to the next qualified candidate from the Party List of Political Party, the Croatian Democratic Union of BiH, which is Dragan Vrankić; Nikola Špirić and assigned the mandate to the next qualified candidate from the List of Political Party of Independent Social Democrats, which is Saša Bursać. Our MPs signed statements on acceptance of the mandate, therefore, the new MPs should make a solemn statement in order to assume parliamentary rights and obligations. I urge Ante Domazet, Dragan Vrankić and Saša Bursać to make a solemn statement. Please repeat behind me, state your name.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8606	'I declare
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8607	'I declare 2
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8608	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with; Ante
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8609	............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8610	that I shall knowingly perform the duties which I have been entrusted with;
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8611	I respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina; Ante
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8612	............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8613	I respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8614	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina; ANTE
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8615	............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8616	I fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina;
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8617	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens." ANTE
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8618	............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8619	I protect and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms, and protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens."
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8620	Thank you. You can take your seats. /PLAUSE/ Dear Ambassador Senad Šepić, right at the beginning. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8622	Thank you very much. Here's my thanks. Just one business intervention. Namely, I took the 10th term. 2. So the moment I was suspended from my deputy minister's office and since then I have been consummating my mandate. So, since February 10th, just one brief correction. 3
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8623	Thank you. Your notice also lists a date of 10. 2nd and that's fine. As for the amendments and the addition of the agenda, I would like to tell you that – due to the session held in the meantime and referred to the confirmation of the members of the Council of Ministers – this session was held on 23rd rather than 22nd, as it was in the earlier call. Further, point 4 has been removed from the previous agenda. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH institutions, the Proposer of the Council of Ministers (second reading), as the Finance and Budget Commission late delivered the Report, thus preventing MPs from possibly proposing amendments that contest amendments adopted by the Commission or defending their amendments which were not adopted by the Commission, all in accordance with Article 118(1) and Article (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. That deadline – for all MEPs to know and the members of the Commission – is 24 hours before the start of the House session. Point 3 was added to the agenda at the request of the Alliance for a Better Future of BiH MEPs to discuss the Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Election Law under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. And this is the situation we have been working out at the Expansive College, and we have agreed to make an exception that this item of the agenda today is in session, although the principle agreement that all MPs need to know the legislative proposals cannot be put on the agenda within 24 hours until the beginning of the session, so that in future it is known when legal projects are proposed that each one who did not pass at least 24 hours before the session will not be included in the agenda. Point 5, which in the previous agenda was point 9. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of holocausts, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity – is complemented by the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics that is negative. Also, we've moved this point to number 5 because it's the bill that's... before the procedure of the other laws that are also in the first reading today. Point 8. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the Court of Justice of BiH and point 9. The draft law on the termination of the BiH Prosecutor's Law – they are complemented by the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, which is negative. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I understand that the 23rd House session has the following. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 20th and 21st sessions of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. A request from the Alliance for a Better Future of BiH's MPs to consider the draft law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's electoral law under an emergency procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the Representative House of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina, material No 01-02-1-912, of 15. 2. 2012; 4 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH Institutions, Proposing the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-212, of 11. 1. 2012 (second reading); 5. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of a holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity, legislators Azra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, Law No 01-02-1-1611, of 5. Nine. In 2011, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 6. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the financing of Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions, proposed by the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, Law No 01,02-02-1-2811, of 29. 12. 2011 (first reading); 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the Institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposed by the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs, Law No 01,02-02-1-2711, of 29. 12. In 2011 (first reading), 8 / 8 Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, legislators Drago Kalabić and Darko Babalj, Law No 01-02-1-712, of 1.2.2012, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 9. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, MPs Drago Kalabić and Darko Babalj, Law No 01-02-1-612, from 1.2.2012, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 10. Decision on the participation of police officers from Bosnia and Herzegovina in the transformed mission UNMIK (Sudan) and UNMISS (South Sudan) and UNISFA (Abyei), material of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Presidency, No 01,02-04-1-5412, of 9. 1. 2012; 11. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Section at the 2010 EXPO-2010 World Exhibition in Shanghai, material of the Bosnia and Herzegovina institutions' audit office, No 01.02-161-130811, of 23. 12. 2011; 12. Resolution of Azra Hadžiahmetović of the Interparliamentary Friendship Group of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with other countries' parliamentary bodies, number IV, and appointment as a member of the Interparliamentary Friendship Group of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for bilateral co-operation with other countries' parliamentary bodies, number VI (request of Parliament of Azra Hadžiahmetović); 13. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the mutual protection of classified information between the Council of Ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the government of Montenegro. We're moving on to the realization of today's agenda. The first point is Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 20th and 21st sessions
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8627	I must inform the House of Representatives that we have had to hold an emergency meeting of the SDS Members' Club in the BiH Parliament over an extended haranga at a party that has culminated in the past two days with direct attacks on MP Aleksandar Pandurević by inventing and generating lies. Behind the harangus and media pressures are underground services, led by AIDS, which apparently still works. The direct intimidation of witnesses at the trial of Radovan Karadžić and in the case of "SYLOS" is the cause of this haranga, because the mother of Aleksandra Pandurević is a witness in these cases. It is clear that there is an organisation behind this and its handwriting can be clearly read in both this and many other attacks on RS political representatives. We will inform the RS MUP and other competent institutions and seek the protection of RS political representatives in Sarajevo. The result of this harangus is that our security is at risk on the streets of Sarajevo. We will ask the RS MUP to protect all other witnesses of crimes against Srbin exposed to an organised attack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8628	Thank you. No one answered for the discussion on the minutes of the 20th and 21st sessions. I'm closing the debate. We move on to parliamentary questions: Ad. 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received Comments on the answers received to today's session were received by Mirsad Đugum of the Federation of BiH Government, on the question asked at the 14th session; Slavko Jovičić of the Directorate for Direct Taxation, on the matter asked at the 16th session; Denis Bećirović of the BiH Ministry of Justice, on the 6th issue asked at the 10th session, the Ministry of Refugees and Displaced Persons of the RS, on the question asked at the 15th session; Milica Marković of the Court of Justice of BiH, on the issue asked at the 19th session; Nermina Fazlić of the Government of RS, on the issue asked at the 15th session; Mato Franjičević of the Federal Ministry of Affairs of Fights and Disadeniary of the 15th session, on the issue asked at the 12th session; Ismet Dervoz from the Government of RS and the Zeničko-dobej canton Assembly, on the 15th Pandurević of the Council of BiH, on the 15th and the Council of BiH, on the Council of Justice, on the Council, on the 15th issue, on the Council, on the 15th and on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the 15th issue of BiH, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the 15th, on the Council, on the Council, on the 15th, on 15th, on the Council, on 15th, on the Council, on 15th, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the issue of BiH, on 15th, on 15th, on 15th, on 15th, on 15th, on 15th, on 15th, on 15th, on the issue of BiH, on the issue of BiH, on the Council, on the issue of BiH, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on the Council, on 15th, on 15th, on 15th, on 15th, on 15th, on 15th, on 15th, on the Council, on the Council, on the issue of BiH, on the Council, on the Council, on the issue of BiH, on the issue of the Council, on the Council, on the issue of BiH. Also, at the 20th session of the House the answers to questions asked did not comment and expressed their desire to do so at this session: Mate Franjičević, a response from the Federal Ministry of Affairs of Fighters and Disabilities of Defence War, asked at the 16th session; Božo Ljubić, a response from the Federation government, asked at the 14th session, and repeated at the 16th session. For comments, he answered, in turn, the honourable MP Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8630	Dear chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, honored guests, I would only thank the Federation Government for the response given by the Federation Health Insurance Office on capital investments invested in all cantons at Federation level. I'd like to leave this for a comment at the next session because only the answer came yesterday, so I can gather all the facts in this section. And if I can use this question just through this part of it, I haven't received a response from the Federation Government to the question of 'Agency for Passive Subsilents', where we saw that the federal budget had not provided funds to form 'Agency for Passive Subsilences', which was our obligation nine months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8631	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8632	Thank you. I'm the answer to the question I've asked since October, only these days have I been given by the Federal Department of Defence Affairs. The answer is such that I believe is rarity when it comes to the institution's answers to parliamentary issues raised by representatives of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly. What do you say? The answer is warring with logic, it's not even predistant logic, it's something really invisible. And following such a response as is contentious, where the minister enters the polemics, following such a response by the minister of the institution which he represents and unfortunately to the government of the Federation in which he is a member, it is obviously quite normal for the same case to be treated differently depending on the national sign, so in one case, there are certainly no camps, although the court ruling found to exist, and in another case there certainly are camps, although no verdict has been found to exist. Indeed, the answer would require perhaps a broader design and additional questions, but I will refrain.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8633	Thank you. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8634	The esteemed chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, therefore, was referred to the Federal Ministry of Justice, and concerns human rights violations through the beating and harassing of Serb convicts in the KPZ Zenica. The answer I received is, despite the fact that convicts write daily to RS institutions and MPs from the RS, the answer that the Federal Ministry of Justice delivered to me – that these are incident situations and cannot be talked about constant harassment, yet there are cases and these cases will be considered, and the situation considered about the possible relocation of certain Serb convicts. Since I do not have an answer to this question, and I do not know what condition Serbian convicts are constantly writing about problems in KPZ Zenica, I will certainly go with the initiative to determine the group of parliament and visit KPZ Zenica to see what is actually happening there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8635	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8636	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I received an answer to the question, a partial answer to the question I asked on January 19th, and that my question was made up of two parts, under a) and under b). (a) it was intended for the Court of Justice, and under (b) it was the Prosecutor's Office. I have now received only part of the response from the BiH Court and I will first comment on it. So, I asked for the names and last names of persons convicted and released from 2005 to 19. January 2012. I got that table here, but of course I asked in those data to deliver the name, last name, number of years, or the amount of punishment to which the person was convicted and of course the nationality. The BiH Court provided me with a table of these names, so those who were released, 20 of them, and those who were convicted by law, 85 of them in the mentioned period, by the fact that the President of the Court indicated in the reply, wrote that the Court does not keep data on the nationality of convicted, or freed persons, which is simply unacceptable and unacceptable that such a high judicial institution does not keep that information, by knowing that in some judgments, for example, from the former state of Yugoslavia, where in communist times it was not quite desirable to declare itself or to stress it on nationality and religion, but it has always been stated in judgments that this 8 persons by nationality belonged to that and that nationality. So that's always been indicated, and it's strange that this court is now on trial for war crimes, and there's no record of that. So I repeat this part of the question to which I am not answered: 'I ask the Court to deliver to me for this table for which it has delivered for convicted persons who have 85: to deliver to me the nationality of those persons, so that they may find them in the CIPS if there are no courts in the file, persons against whom the proceedings are conducted. By the way, to say that it is obvious here, so perhaps for those reasons, the Court did not want to indicate nationality, because of the 85 convicted persons there are only 12 Bošnjak, which as a matter of fact and in itself is saying something." As far as the D.A.'s office is concerned, I didn't even get an answer from the D.A., although I thought I'd get it united as an answer. So, I ask the BiH Prosecutor's Office and now I repeat this question: 'to provide me with information on how many items by name and last name the prosecution has given up in criminal proceedings for what they usually say is a lack of evidence.' So, I'll repeat that question. There may be such a procedure that the Court and the D.A. are separately responding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8637	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8638	Dear Chairman, honourable members of the Council of Ministers, gentlemen from the NGO sector, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I am partly satisfied with the answer, in part and I am not. Now, which weight has partly that I'm not satisfied or satisfied, no one can ever determine. Well, I never ask a parliamentary question so I'll even be completely satisfied. I ask the parliamentary question to change the situation in the institutions I address. Unfortunately, the situation never changes, and what is worst, here for five years I have been sitting here in Parliament and listening to all my fellow MPs' questions, no one has ever even been able to go before Parliament and say: I was not satisfied with the parliamentary question, is the person responsible to answer that parliamentary question, whoever asks it on behalf of my colleagues. It doesn't matter which line it sits in, represented by the party, from which the people come. So he can answer us whatever he wants. That's the problem with answering parliamentary questions. And when I asked this question to the Directorate for Direct Taxation, I'm going to call on a permanent principle, which was referred to in 2008, in 2009, also renewed in 2010, I think in 2011, if it wasn't for the break, because we didn't even know who was going to be there. Well, I'm waiting for him to be elected there now, what I'd like to call him, management or management, so let me see what he answers. And whatever you say to me is what I do if I'm not satisfied, and I claim to have arguments, because I never ask a parliamentary question what's wrong with me, but I have arguments, arguments that I'm right, and that's where the situation is fixed, and the situation isn't fixed. And once we, too, will have to ask Parliament the question of unrealising the questions of MPs, but what is their purpose, what is their range, when no one answers 9 in any way, of those who are invited to answer us, answers give us how it suits them, and they do not respond to what they do not change the situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8639	Thank you. Dear Member Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8640	Thank you very much, esteemed presidency. My colleagues and colleagues, I received one of a series of questions that I had asked different institutions related to higher education until the university was opened and a quality system was established within the university, i.e. higher education institutions in BiH. This is the answer I received from the Brcko District Education Department, which informs me that they have adopted a report, that is to say, a draft of the justification for the establishment of a series of universities in Brcko District. And before I asked this question, I knew they did it, so they didn't give me the information. On the contrary, with a trail of information that they founded these universities, I asked a parliamentary question that applied: Were the conditions met during the procedure of setting up, or approving the work of higher education institutions? Why did I ask that question? Because members of the commission of experts who were to decide on the justification for the establishment of the university told me that they were not agreeable and that they did not give a positive opinion. And despite that, the Brcko District Assembly and the head of the Education Department made the decisions they made, which is why I asked the question. So this question of mine had two purposes. First, to warn the public about the illegal procedure of establishing a university, specifically in this case in Brcko District, and secondly, to draw public attention to the establishment of a university that is likely to be ballast to the entire state tomorrow and endanger the work of those good universities whose diplomas should be valid in the next period. I was also initiated by the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance also to draw attention to this, as these decisions are taken by the Agency to establish a university, specifically in this case by the Brcko District. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8641	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8642	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, esteemed guests, I must comment on the 15th session issue, where I received a response from the RS government, from the resolution ministry. To remind me, there was a question about the RS Railways and the Federation of BiH Railways on the funds they received in the last three years from the budget and on the structure of the debt. 10 I must say that I have received an analyticalally quite good answer from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but for a quality comment on this answer I expect the Government of the Federation to answer, so when the issue is complete, I would give one more quality comment on that question. But I must note that Parliament's leadership has referred a number of urgent questions to those which we have not received so far, and I understand new colleagues in the Council of Ministers and a new Council of Ministers' Assembly that they may not be able to answer any questions, because it is not about their mandate. But we do have one structure of questions that is general, and I would ask you to look at the structure of those questions in that first stage of stalking. I'll remind you only that I had one question about saving up at Invest Bank, but here's to that one. So part of the comment, when the answer is complete, I'll keep it, and so on.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8643	Thank you. First Vice-President, honourable Ambassador Božo Ljubić. You can apply for the following questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8644	At the 14th session, I asked my colleagues and fellow MPs, as reported by the chairman, about discrimination against workers of Croatian and Serbian nationalities in the dedicated Igman industry from Konjic, which is mostly state-owned. I first received a response from the Ministry of Defence that they were not in charge, and then at the last session of the Federal Ministry of Defence, they simply forwarded an act given to them by the Administration of the same company in which, according to a petition of the workers that was addressed to me, they violated the rights of employment. I did not ask for an answer from the dedicated industry "Igman" Konjic, but from the competent institutions of the BiH state and the Federation of BiH, and I expect an answer from them. What am I saying here? The bottom line of our questions here is not to show up for this pay phone and ask that we get formal answers but to solve problems. And my question finally (in fact, I will only paraphrasise it here) was: "What does the Ministry of Defence and the authorities in the Federation do or intend to do to resolve the practice of discrimination against workers in the dedicated industry "Igman" Konjic on a national basis?" And that there's something here says not only a petition of nine people who have been sent to me, and with concrete facts, but also the answer of the dedicated industry "Igman" Konjic, in which of the nine names and last names listed here and the complete files from the working relationship, in fact, eight corresponds to that petition that I was given to me, which I didn't give to this parliament, or to the federal authorities, or to "Igman" Konjic. Therefore, I am asking the authorities to respond, in the first row of the Federation of BiH, and the state defence ministry cannot escalate from responsibility for this sector, as it also has the appropriate service in place, and even a deputy minister who takes care of these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8645	Thank you. 11 We move on to: b) New Parliament Questions Dear colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, I ask you to limit yourself to one question and three minutes, given the large number of requests for new parliamentary questions. Dear Ambassador Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8647	Dear Mr. Chairman, given the number of applicants, I will refer my question to the entity's governments about the current elemental accident by written means. /Shortly Interrupted Recording/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8648	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, my question is to the BiH Council of Ministers, and it reads: 'How many are registered unemployed persons in BiH employment offices? I'm asking for information to be delivered to every municipality. In particular, data should be processed for graduates, and all programmes implemented in BiH should be listed in order to stimulate the employment of highly educated personnel. What does the Council of Ministers of BiH intend to do on this plan?" Once I get an answer to this question, I intend to launch a debate in the House of Representatives on the same topic with a view to improving measures that stimulate the employment of highly educated personnel. I won't explain anything, but when I get the answer, then I'll go with the initiative. Here, you can come and get the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8649	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8650	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, distinguished guests, I will be very brief. Since I have asked several questions and have not received any answers, I have now decided on a very easy question. Of course, I will make an introduction, namely I think the issue of respect and law enforcement is a serious problem in BiH. I asked 22.6., I didn't get an answer; then 22.9., at the 10th session; then at the 16th session, 22.12. But I expect that the new Council of Ministers will deal with it, and I am taking advantage of the opportunity to force my questions to be answered. 12 To return to the introduction itself. So the issue of non-compliance with the law and non-implementation in BiH is a total problem. I'm going to start with a very light question that should somehow come from us here at the House of Representatives, so the question is, "How, therefore, in the rooms of the House of Representatives, do you mean this House of Representatives, the House of Peoples and other rooms here in this building, implements the Law on the Prohibition of Smoking of tobacco products?" So here's a very simple question on which to see how serious we really are implementing those laws that we ourselves are making. I believe this is the easiest question I've ever asked, so I expect to get an answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8651	Thank you. The next is distinguished representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8652	Thank you, Your Honor. I've got two questions, but I'm not going to read them because of the number of registered colleagues. I'll just tell you what's going on. The first parliamentary issue is addressed to the Ministry of Civil Affairs and concerns the "signing of an agreement between BiH and the Republic of Slovenia on the suspension of scholarships for students from BiH, as our students are in a subordinate position compared to students from other countries of the former Yugoslavia with which Slovenia has signed an agreement and do not pay high scholarships". And the second question is about the current moment with these weather disasters. We had this case of the fall of a power line in Mostar whose reason was not only because of these rainfalls but because of the unconscious behaviour of people who, for the sake of the sale of secondary raw materials, destroyed the object itself, so my question, i.e. two questions: 'What law and how is it regulated to sanction natural persons who, because of the sale of secondary raw materials, are destroying objects of general interest: power lines, traffic signalling, shahts, cables, etc., and whether companies that buy such materials are being punished, or whether they are being punished and in what situations? This is a matter for the Department of Security. I seek answers in writing to both questions." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8653	Thank you. Next is the distinguished representative Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8654	I thank the Vice-President. A very important question: the development of the economy. And it seems to me that in that direction the new Council of Ministers should take great steps. The number of employees, which had previously been asked one parliamentary question, i.e. the number of unemployed. We had a chance here to discuss the Chamber of Commerce and we tried to change the laws and regulations of the Chamber of Commerce. We didn't come across 13 backups. But I can see that in the Chamber of Commerce, everything still doesn't work the way it should, at least the businessmen don't feel it. For these reasons, my question concerns the Ministry of Economic Relations and Foreign Trade: 'Are the elections in the Chamber of Commerce carried out in accordance with the law and has the proceedings been closed before the court? I'm looking for an answer in writing."
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8655	Thank you. The next is the esteemed deputy chairman, Mr. Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8656	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, esteemed representatives of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have two questions. The first issue concerns the signing of an interstate agreement between BiH and Serbia. In the last nine months, I have also had the opportunity and opportunity to, in the capacity of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly chairman's House of Representatives, speak four times with various officials of the Republic of Serbia on this subject. This is what I spoke of, among other things, at a meeting with the president of the Republic of Serbia, Mr. Boris Tadić, twice with the president of the Serbian Parliament, Mrs. Slavica Đukić Dejanović, and one with the vice president of the Republika Srpska Assembly Gordan Čomić. All these meetings show the fact that there are certain problems on our Bosnian side as well. I therefore ask the precise question: "Where is the problem, which is why the signing of an interstate border agreement between the state of BiH and the state of Serbia is obstructed within BiH?" And the second question is the same question, it only refers to "the interstate agreement on the border between BiH and Montenegro". I hope, this is the question I ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers, that we will get a precise answer to this question now that we have a Council of Ministers formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8657	Thank you. Next is Honourable representative Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8658	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask a question about higher education institutions, that is, private colleges, and it comes down to the following: 'How many private universities, or universities, are founded in BiH, of course by entities, cantons and Brcko District? How many permanent teachers and what call do they work at these colleges? How many colleges have valid accreditation? How many students have graduated from school since the beginning of work to this day at each of the founding schools? How many master's and Ph.D.s were obtained at private schools? Which entities – entities, cantons, Brcko District – allow legal exams to be passed to lawyers who have completed private law schools?' Thank you. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8659	Thank you. The following came the honorary representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8660	Here, it seems that we today, primarily the position, and slightly less the opposition, have made sure that our Council of Ministers is one of the two months in the preparation of the response, this newly-insured, right? But here, I'm going to ask you a question, or we're going to ask one question. So: 'Will the Council of Ministers also deliver the work programme to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly or at least the priorities, of course, agreed?' At the last session when we confirmed the Council of Ministers we didn't have a program and we talked about it, but it was then announced that it would happen in the coming period and we really expect it to happen. Of course, we especially expect to point out what priorities are to be addressed in the next month and a half, two to make matters related to the application for membership, related to the budget, related to the global fiscal framework, Sejdić-Finci, etc., as announced, and solved. Here, we are also taking this opportunity to, in accordance with the usual democratic practice when it comes to the election of a new government, the new Council of Ministers, that the opposition is practically giving a period of time to the Council of Ministers that in a more peaceful atmosphere it can demonstrate its ambitions, its competences, etc. And we'll do it. Of course, not in that usual full capacity of 100 days, because that deadline has been spent, but let's say by the end of March when you announced that BiH's budget would be adopted and that it would stop funding temporarily and a series of other things that have been announced. We will, of course, refrain from asking parliamentary questions, initiatives, replicas, etc. about the activation of the MAP and the application to the EU. and support all legal solutions that go in the direction of the EU and of course the NATO Alliance, if these solutions are not harmful, or are not destructive to the BiH state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8661	Thank you. The next is Commissioner Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8662	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, my question has been addressed to the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Federation, so it is related to the work of the Interreligious Council: 'It is known that the Interreligious Council with the Council of Ministers, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Federation has signed a Protocol of Cooperation expressing the agreement of all signatories on the need for co-operation between those institutions. This created an obligation to pay the Council of Ministers and 50,000 entity governments out of the budget of those institutions every year for the benefit of the BiH Interreligious Council. Since only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia made payment for 2011, and 15 that the Council of Ministers and the Government of the Federation failed to fulfil their obligations, I ask that they provide me with an answer to the question: When do they intend to carry out this obligation?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8663	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8664	Mr. Vice-President, my question is addressed to the Council of Ministers, and it reads: 'When will the body be set up in the following institutions: the Commission for concessions of BiH (it is about the term of office of the President, Vice-President and Members of the Commission), the Regulatory Agency for Communications of BiH (the appointment of directors and members of the Council of the Agency), the Institute for Missing Persons of BiH (the status of members of the Management Board) and the Office for the Review of BiH complaints (the appointment of the President, the duration and the expiry of the mandate)? I pray for a written answer." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8665	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8666	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear guests, I, on behalf of the Alliance for a Better Future of BiH Club, ask certain questions, which have been addressed to the new Council of Ministers and, of course, to the Commission for Transport and Connections, the Ministry, pardon. It is about RTVBH's work, but because of, of course, of the inability that you all know I read my question myself I will ask, as I have commonly learned, my esteemed and esteemed colleague Dervoz to read the written text instead of me. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8667	The Alliance for a better future club strongly supports the development and strengthening of BHRT as roof state television. However, we want to ask the following strategic issues about BHT's entry as part of the Public Service of all citizens, peoples and others in BiH. Instead of being a transparent and correct service for all citizens, the Governing Board and the Editorial College have turned BHT into the service of one party, everyone in the programme is seen as being a Party of Democratic Action. - What measures will be taken to ensure that the BHT Editorial College is finally professionally aware that elections took place in October last year and what are the results of these elections, and what will the Editor's College do to ensure that the BHT opposition, which received the huge trust of citizens, subscribers and the same TV, is treated as in all other European countries and multi-party systems? 16 - How is it possible and who is responsible for several editorial key positions on BHT to find people who only have medium professional equipment, and not that social direction, while there are a large number of graduates waiting at the employment bureaus? We note that there are only three hundred in Sarajevo." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8668	Thank you. The next is the esteemed representative of Emir Kabil. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8669	Dear chairman, honourable MPs, esteemed guests, I have a parliamentary question that I refer to the government of the Federation of BiH, the government of the RS and the Council of Ministers. Since BiH as a whole as a state, regardless of the level of government, welcomed this last natural disaster that hit us unprepared, I would ask a few questions. First, why is it that the first day that the condition of the elemental accident was declared is not formed an intervention crisis headquarters at the level of the state that would coordinate the work of lower levels and define who is responsible for what? Second: 'Is there even a plan at the state level in case of a condition of an elemental accident?' Third: 'How many years does civil protection get for their work, who is responsible for spending money and who is in control of it?' Fourth: 'Why, as it is done in all other countries, is not immediately a mobilized army, members of the Armed Forces and the Special Police Unit, at all levels?' And finally, "Why hasn't an order been issued for a working obligation to all public sector employees?" The situation in the cities... and I think you should get an answer to this asked question. I'm looking for an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8670	Thank you. The next one is Commissioner Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8671	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, I have more questions, so that's why I'm not going to read the explanations but just the questions. First, I ask three questions to the BiH Ministry of Security: 17 First: "How many activities during the duration of the BiH elemental disaster had an Operational and Communication Centre 112, which is located within the Ministry of Security in the Protection and Rescue Sector?" Second question: "How much did the Ministry of Security get from representatives of local communities according to how many requests have been sent to the BiH Ministry of Defence for the engagement of BiH Armed Forces units on the ground to tackle the consequences of an elementary disaster in BiH?" And the third question: "What measures does the Ministry plan to take in the future to prevent the effects of the floods that will follow after the snow melts across the country?" I'm looking in writing for answers. I ask the following questions to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations: First, "What is done to foster the adoption of the EU directive?" Second: "Is there a plan, and, if there is one, what and how is it executed, by which EU directives are adopted?" And third, ‘Is there a clear and adopted procedure for dealing with regulations after their adoption?’ I have one conclusion, a proposal for a conclusion, in fact: 'I propose that an inter-resor working group be formed to prepare a law on political parties in BiH, that is, political organisations. I propose that the deadline for preparing and sending to the parliamentary procedure of this law on political parties should be the end of April 2012.'
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8672	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8673	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, guests, media, I welcome you all. I will try in three minutes to present one parliamentary initiative and two questions. The initiative refers to entity justice ministries: 'Considering that a significant number of bankruptcy proceedings have been initiated before the competent courts in BiH, where the bankruptcy judges of one bankruptcy manager name more firms in bankruptcy which has an important impact on the length of the proceedings, and thus significantly devalue the bankruptcy property, which is why I initiate and suggest that one bankruptcy manager should not run more than one bankruptcy procedure until it is finished. That, before and urgently, the exchange of bankruptcy managers who have been conducting bankruptcy proceedings for several years has not been completed. If the creditor successfully and in a shorter period of time resuscitates the bankruptcy firm, it shall be awarded as appropriate, and shall have the advantage of continuing to manage the bankruptcy. If there are no bankruptcy 18 managers available to the competent departments of justice to publish adverts for the reception of new bankruptcy managers, and that the same ministries seek to better update the situation with bankruptcy proceedings and report to the public." I refer the parliamentary question to the Federation of BiH Securities Commission and the Securities Commission of the RS: 'Because these two institutions in BiH are key and for the adoption of securities regulations, trade, and supervision of the securities market, and certainly their overly strict rules, and in an effort to prevent negative phenomena, led almost to the total shutting down of the stock market, all brokerage houses and trading of capital, both in the Sarajevo and Banja Luka Stock Exchange, all of which confirms daily traffic from 10 to 15 million KM daily to barely 50 to 100 thousand marks per day, and therefore I ask for those commissions the question: 'What exactly do they intend to do to improve the capital market, increase daily stock market traffic on our stock markets and activate numerous brokerage houses and their businesses in BiH'? And the parliamentary question, given the information published by Banja Luka TV in 12.2.2012, that the Slovenian Power Company started to buy electricity from Slovenia, and from the international market four times the price on the domestic market, i.e. 120 to 130 euros for MWh, I ask the question of the Elektroprivred RS and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: 'Was it necessary to make such a decision and why, was the RS Government previously aware of this, and could the lack and timely taking appropriate measures with its domestic producer or buy at acceptable prices, if it was already inevitable?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8674	Thank you. The next is the distinguished representative Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8675	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all. I have a short question for the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia: 'Will the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Slovenia take some action to build up the “Serbian” Hospital, given that the term of the Kasindo Hospital building has already passed in technical terms, which could endanger the safety of the staff and patients of this hospital?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8676	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Nermin Purić. Here you go. 19
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8677	Thank you, Your Honor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two representative questions. First of them I ask the Institute of Health Insurance of the Unsaniscan Canton, from which I ask the question: 'What is the number of people who have health insurance in the Unsaniscan canton, on which basis are they provided and I ask for an analytical examination by Canton municipalities of age and sex structure, and based on insurance?' The second question is for the governments of the Federation of BiH and the UN-San canton: 'What are the number of doctors in the UN-San canton working at the same time in state health institutions and in private practice? Do governments plan to regulate this area in a way that doctors can work either in a public institution or in private practice, and whether there is a possibility of equalising public and private sector work in a way that patients decide where they want to be treated?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8678	Thank you. The next is Honorable Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8679	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests, I have one question to ask the BiH Council of Ministers: 'According to incomplete and unofficial data in the area of the Women's Doboj canton without a job, there are about seven thousand workers left. I therefore ask the following question to the Council of Ministers: - How long during 2011 have the total workers lost their jobs throughout BiH, a review by entities, cantons and municipalities, and what is the Council of Ministers intending to do to stop this negative trend?'
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8680	Thank you. Next is the distinguished representative Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8681	Thank you, Mr. President. I also have a question for the Council of Ministers, and it may, perhaps, be encouraged by a little fellow Bojić, slowly and reads: "Is the Council of Ministers of BiH a position and what is the current planetary current of this controversial international agreement restricting Internet freedoms...?" 20 thanks.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8682	Thank you. The next one is Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8683	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, guests, in accordance with Article 8. I refer the Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives to the colleges of both Houses of Parliament, requiring them to initiate a decision that will ensure that discrimination is stopped and equality is achieved in language compared to the persons of the female family used in communication, internal acts and materials, acts and materials that are communicated to other institutions in the country and abroad, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and all other situations that require it. I explain the initiative to the provisions of domestic and international legislation. In Article I, point 4 is replaced by the following: The BiH Constitution states: 'The enjoyment of the rights and freedoms provided for in this article or international agreements referred to in Annex I of this Constitution is guaranteed to all persons in BiH without discrimination on any basis such as sex, race, colour, language, and that I do not quote further this position, I believe we all know it. Article 9(a) and (e) of the Law on Gender Equality in BiH states: 'In the sense of the law, sex is considered to be biological and psychological characteristics by which persons of male and female gender differ, and it also marks the gender as a social and cultural difference between male and female persons. Discrimination in language exists when only one grammatical race is used as a generic term.' Article 24(2) point (c) of the Law on Gender Equality in BiH: 'The component of the programme of measures to achieve gender equality in all areas includes measures to eliminate perceived gender inequality in a particular area. Equality in the language also has its basis for BiH's binding international conventions and recommendations." I note the 1979 Convention on the Elimination of all forms of discrimination against women CEDAW: 'Member States condemn discrimination against women in all kinds, agree to implement all appropriate means of discrimination at their disposal and without delaying the policy of eliminating discrimination against women and, therefore, undertake to refrain from any proceedings or practices of discrimination against women and to ensure that public authorities and institutions act in accordance with this obligation, to take all necessary measures to remove discrimination against women by any person, organisation or undertaking. The States shall take all appropriate measures to amend social and cultural customs regarding the behaviour of men and women in order to eliminate prejudice, as well as the usual and any other practice based on understanding of the inferiority or superiority of one or another sex or the traditional role of men or women." Recommendation of the Council of Europe Committee on the Elimination of Sexism in the Language: 'It is recommended that Member States' governments promote the use of a language that will reflect the principle of equality between women and men and take all the measures they consider appropriate to encourage the use of as many as 21 non-sexual languages as possible, and take into account the presence, status and role of women in society, as current linguistic practice does when it comes to men, harmonize the terminology in legislation."
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8684	I'm asking the honourable representative to take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8685	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman, thank you. I also note the Interparliamentary Union document – Action Plan to correct the current imbalance on the participation of men and women who clearly say that it requires the use of language in legislation which is not discriminatory on the basis of sex and recommends that Member States revise their constitutions and eliminate terms that tend to advocate sexual stereotypes. Thank you very much. I apologize for your time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8686	Thank you. The next is Commissioner Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8687	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome everyone present. Appreciate the time, I'll take my question in writing.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8688	Thank you. Next is Honorable Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8689	Dear Chairman, in the course of the session or within the shortest time, I request a written explanation of the Professional Service, or the Joint Service, or of some security institutions that are responsible for the security of this Parliament and the maintenance of the session; at this point there are about 30 protesters who hold pictures of certain officials and those against whom they are dissatisfied and that this can be explained here in writing: can they stand at the entrance itself, so that no party or MP can enter, or must be distanced from a decent distance, so let them protest as much as they wish?- I'm sorry. But no matter what part of the agenda is at the House of Representatives session, so our home, we don't want to work here under any pressure. That doesn't mean that I'm in some kind of fear right now that 30 women down there have some transparency and I don't know what they're yelling at, I don't care. But I do not want to come here to Parliament and to have anyone threaten MPs from the order of the Serbian people, and this group is just expressing threats, insults to the expense of Serbian MPs who are in Parliament because of certain points of the agenda that are at our session today. So I ask for a written answer, is that in 20 minutes, half an hour, and that, 'How is the work of the messengers in this house secured?'
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8690	I thank the honourable representative. I hope that we will soon get an explanation of this situation that is unknown to me. I am concluding item 2 of the agenda – MPial questions. We're going to the third point, that's "Ad." 3. A request from the Alliance for a Better Future of BiH to consider the draft law amending the BiH Election Law under an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure. In connection with this point, before we move to debate, a representative of the SDS Club is asking for a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8692	Before the transition to work alone on the agenda point – I was reporting but it was not so effective – I am asking you to take a half-hour break on behalf of the SDS MPs' Club.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8693	I didn't hear your request. However, according to the Rules of Procedure, the break is required at the point. So I'm taking a half-hour break at the request of the SDS MPs' Club and we'll proceed later. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8694	My fellow Members and fellow MPs, the SDS MPs' club asked for a break. Dear Ambassador Borislav Bojić, commentary on the break. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8695	Therefore, the reasons for the break were identical to the previous break, since there were unannounced protests in front of the building, or organised against the law, at least according to our opinion, so we have now been informed that the protest had spread, and thus we would practically get the conditions that we could continue the work. Obviously, that part of the pressure, not to repeat, was present and we believe that the conditions have now come into line with, here, let me say, one normal atmosphere we can continue to work. Here's... 23
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8696	Thank you. I am opening a debate on the request of the MEPs of the Alliance for a Better Future to discuss the Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Election Law by an urgent procedure. Here you go. Dear MP, shall we first release Mr Mirsad Đugum, since this proposal comes from their party? _________(?) Of course, of course. Dear Ambassador Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8698	The Honorable Chairman, respected colleagues and colleagues, the Club of the Alliance for a Better Future, submitted the proposal for a Law amending the BiH Election Law under an urgent procedure, and it is an amendment to one point concerning the elections in Srebrenica and the Club's position to delete only an exception for the 2008 general elections, which is in Article 20 point 9 (1) to delete this part from that argument sent to all MPs and which was explained yesterday and to the College. Due to the process..., the local elections that are approaching, to put this item on the agenda at today's session and to hold a vote on this point in order to make the quality and better process of the election and respecting that part of the 1991 balance, i.e. the census of the population within Srebrenica. We all know what happened, how it happened, and in order to provide conditions for the population in '91. Years and '92. a year of food in the area and to be declared no matter where they are now located. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8699	Thank you. The next for discussion is Honourable MP Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8700	Very short. For us there are arguments for this emergency procedure request for the simple reason that elections are very close. So if we're going to do anything, then we need to do it by emergency procedure to get these deadlines. So, we will support this request and, regardless of the result of the vote in which variant this law goes, we will certainly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8701	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: 24 Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH Institutions (second reading) At the 20th House session, held in 2.2.2012, the bill was adopted in the first reading. The financial and budgetary committee responsible submitted the report on 16.2.2012. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the fifth point, Ad. 5. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of a holocaust, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8704	Thank you, Chairman. Here, I'm going to go back to the very point of the agenda, or content, even though there were many reasons on several occasions, and, here we were expecting, we even thought it might have been too high to give any explanation of the law itself. 25 But here, let us express hope that as long as we have such an inefficient Rules of Procedure, that is, until the conclusions and intentions of the College of the House of Representatives, or the Joint College of both homes, are respected, that, of course, we should also express the hope that all those who had reservations under this law, will remove the reserves, given the content which does not represent anyone in particular within BiH, and refer to the standard international standards, definitions and qualifications of such events as are the subject of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8705	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the sixth item of the agenda: Ad. Six. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the financing of BiH institutions (first reading) The Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs submitted the draft law to the parliamentary procedure on 29 December 2011. The Directorate for European Integration delivered Opinion 23.1.2012. The Constitutional Legislative Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis 31.1. The financial and budget committee in charge delivered its Opinion on the principles of the Bill's proposal in 16.2.2012. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Dear Member Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8707	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the above-mentioned Bill on Supplements to the Law on the Financing of BiH institutions has indeed tried to partially resolve the problem set out in the explanation. In an explanation related to the reasons for the submission of the proposal for a law, it was said that the Administrative Commission tried to solve the problem of classifying employees with medium professional training, i.e. equalising pay classes. In translation, therefore, there are no equal salaries of employees in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly with other employees. But I think that in... The proposal for a law supplementing the law has no link between the intensities and the legal provisions that should be amended. So it's about undefined items. Also, partial resolution... _________(?) 26 [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, the law on the financing of BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8709	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8710	I know, well, the Administrative Commission is both. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8711	Regarding the draft budget prepared by the Parliamentary Assembly and proposing to the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8712	Please, draft law supplementing the BiH Finance Law, issue: 01-02-02-1-28/11, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8713	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8714	Well, I'm calling the first pay page. So, I refer not to the Law on Payments and Refunds in Institutions, but to an explanation that says that the intensity of this law is about wages. There, in that sense. Can I move on now?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8715	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8716	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8717	You're going a little wide. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8718	Yeah, I went a little wide, but I'm on my way from this first page. I think that colleagues have read everything, so what was the explanation... for the adoption of the above-mentioned proposal for a law supplementing the law on the financing of BiH institutions. Therefore, since this was an intensities related to the proposed law, firstly, there is no link between this intensification to the law-making and these legal solutions that should be changed. Basically, there is a need to systematically resolve the Law on Payments, so employees, tenants and 27 civil servants, which is of course related to the next item of the agenda. All the time, I've been trying to say that there's no connection between the explanation and these changes. It is also said here somewhere in the explanation, at the end, that the reason for the adoption of this bill is the existence or achievement of greater independence of the Parliamentary Assembly, greater impact on the adoption of its own budget and the reduction of the influence of the executive authority on Parliament, or the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. But the problem, if we separate ourselves from the entire budgeting system, we violate the entire methodology relating to the budgeting and budgeting process. So, it is said, I think most colleagues know that in order to determine the budget, the budget of each institution, and the Parliamentary Assembly must carry out cost-benefit analysis, there must be projections of certain needs of each institution, and in this Bill proposal there is no way that we would determine our own budget, which would be the methodology, which would be the items. Therefore, no criteria are mentioned. Another problem is that on the basis of these proposals, we would come into conflict with the existing law, so I do not understand why it is not said in that proposal. So we have the Budget Law, the Fiscal Council Act on the Global Framework, so they should change if we decide to make those changes and accept them. It also raises the question whether we are violating the Agreement with the International Monetary Fund. Therefore, if we were to give ourselves extended hands when it comes to determining our budget, among other things, that is to say, there is a space to determine the above and change the coefficients, the question is whether we would adhere to the fiscal discipline that has been established or not. On the basis of the 2009 IMF agreement, the salaries of 10% were reduced. So, the pay item. What could be the solution? So, the solution would be either to now decide to change a series of laws, which of course would not be right, in my opinion, is that, if we already want to have a greater impact on the executive power, that we have a representative in the Fiscal Council, because we have passed the Fiscal Council Act in which it is said who makes up the Fiscal Council. So one of the ways of influence would be either if we had a representative in the Fiscal Council or we would pass a final law on the rights, duties and rights of parliamentary officials and other officials. So, for years, the Audit Office has been giving the Parliamentary Assembly an opinion with a qualification, and this opinion with a qualification is about the fact that we do not have a single regulation. So we need to systemically solve certain problems, pass certain laws, or amend certain laws so that the bill can come on the agenda at all. Mrs. Majkić, please don't throw anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8719	Thank you. Dear Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8720	If I hadn't read this law and I hadn't watched it while our colleague was talking, I wouldn't know what it was about. Indeed, I think that the seriousness of a law like this requires us to be serious 28 in exposure and to speak precisely and concretely only what is the subject of the law without collecting everything that is unclear to us by other laws. So we're talking about a law that restores financial independence to the Parliamentary Assembly, and that's the basic principle. Are we for this House, which has not had the strength for years to do so, thanks to the activities and work of the new Administrative Commission, to enable Parliament to be financially independent? What does that mean in translation? So far, it has been up to now for the Ministry of Finance to make an instruction to BiH institutions and, based on that instruction, everyone has to act. This means that the Council of Ministers determined the budget of the Parliamentary Assembly, which is unimaginable and unmarked. And that reminds you that when the Office for Audits as an independent institution is to determine its budget, it sets the budget by forwarding it to the Finance and Budget Commission. It will agree or not, it will mostly give its position on this and such a proposal by the Office for Audit goes directly to the Ministry of Finance and cannot be changed at any point. So far, we have found countless times that the Parliamentary Assembly lives thanks to foreign donations. We have training thanks to foreigners, we have countless activities not planned by the Parliamentary Assembly budget, but we are in one impoverished position to keep our hands fixed, we are still not ready to get used to the costs for which we should be engaged, or travel that we should pay if they make sense, or if the Parliamentary Assembly so assesses. In the future, our decision, or the amount of our budget, would depend on what the Council of Ministers or on what the Ministry of Finance will tell us, and we ultimately approve the budget here, then the least we could do is propose the financial independence of the Parliamentary Assembly. One more thing I remind you of. The Administrative Commission is the only commission within the Parliamentary Assembly whose decisions are final and can only be challenged by court. So we have to trust that we have such a commission and we have to trust that this proposal is the first time, here is my third term, that the Administrative Commission has come up with such a proposal. We can make political games and say, "No, we shouldn't." I saw that my colleagues were saying things in the papers, some who spoke and commented, they didn't see what it was about. So I suggest we uphold the principles of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8721	Thank you. Replica, honourable Member Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8722	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majkić, I don't know how you couldn't link this exhibit of mine. You're just a person who's thoroughly preparing for every item of the agenda. So, the first page said what was the intensity of the law. I may have confused my colleagues, but the one who was reading thoroughly saw that it was related to the pay grade employees with medium professional training. All the time I've been saying that this solution here, so it's found, that it's undefined, it's incorrect, it doesn't link the intensity, so the reasons for bringing it to what's being said here. Ma'am, that's right. 29 Then, too, there are laws that regulate this budget system, so there is. We must change a number of other laws or finally pass a law on the rights of elected officials, if it already refers to a part relating to the establishment of the budget. Thus, we will practically get out of the entire system if we resolve certain problems in this way in a partial way and our perhaps justifiable dissatisfactions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8723	Thank you. I would like to ask my dear colleague if the conclusions she has proposed regarding the amendments to the other laws would suggest that it be in writing. Dear Ambassador Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8724	Thank you. Do not delay the need for the law in question that we are discussing, but here, perhaps a little inspired by these polemics and misunderstandings, but somehow from the discussion of my colleague, Majkić, it follows that the Office for Auditing which creates the budget is, in a way, also creating the budget of the Parliamentary Assembly, but here to remind you that we are raising our hand here. We are bringing into the final budget, including the Parliamentary Assembly budget, and therefore we have the opportunity to change any modality. So there are more to this Parliament and the procedures that have been prescribed by both the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8725	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the seventh item of the agenda: Ad. Seven. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in the institutions of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs (first reading) The Joint Commission on Administrative Affairs submitted the draft law to the parliamentary procedure on 29 December 2011. The Directorate for European Integration delivered Opinion 26.1.2012. The Constitutional Commission delivered its opinion on the constitutional basis in 31.1.2012. The Commission responsible for finance and the budget submitted its Opinion on the principles of the draft law on 16.2.2012. I'm opening a debate on the bill in the first reading. Here you go. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the eighth item of the agenda: 30 Ad. 8. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: MPs Drago Kalabić and Darko Babalj, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, we have the ninth item of the agenda and if our colleagues agree we can unite the debate. Is there anyone against this proposal? Then, and the ninth item of the agenda: ad. Nine. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposers: MPs Drago Kalabić and Darko Babalj, with the opinion of the Constitutional Commission
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8728	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Although it is very difficult to separate ourselves from the debate on the substance itself, you have called on to discuss the opinions of the Constitutional Commission, we will try to deal with this because I suppose we have dealt with these others a lot and that we will continue to deal with today, who to what extent is it related to this position of the Commission. The Constitutional Commission's position is at least scandalous, catastrophic. I think the position of the Constitutional Commission of this House to this extent is disappointing and that it is a classic shot at parliamentary democracy in BiH. I didn't really expect something like this, and I think this is happening to us that the Constitutional Commission is challenging the constitutional basis, and that means, when we translate into Cyrillic, it can't talk about those things that some people aren't. We do not dispute the views, do not dispute the democratic right of people to plead, but do not allow topics which are claimed to be a constitutional category, that they are of vital state interest, that they are of vital interest to the state of BiH, that they cannot be discussed, that they cannot be legally acted on, that they cannot be proposed legal solutions, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of this country, allow it to go beyond all measures, so that it is a return to the dark villa, because if those who propose legal solutions in the parliamentary procedure to resolve a very painful situation, which everyone agrees is painful and problematic, and if it is the collapse of constitutional order and impact on the state of BiH, then what is it doing on the street, if this is a demolition in Parliament? Then what's his name again? If what we are doing is a revolution, then what is it that runs the streets and the methods that are being carried out outside this Parliament, which is every day? I did not expect the Constitutional Commission to decide on such a matter and say that such things do not have constitutional basis, which are indeed in accordance with procedures, with the Rules of Procedure, 31 turn over here for a democratic debate, where no one can dispute anyone's views, must dispute the democratic right to plead or here some Šahbaz hangs who brings messages from these dark centres of power that the highest body in the country should work. Then this isn't Parliament, then this is a replacement, then this is the outstretched hand of a protectorate in which, of course, I don't want to participate. Does it mean that if we propose to remove the agency at BiH level tomorrow for nothing and nowhere, it will have no constitutional basis, and you have an agency, at least one that is for nothing and for nothing, that it will be disputed the right to come to Parliament at all, because gentlemen will say there is no constitutional basis. I think we have the right to challenge the work of some agencies to at least analyze it. But if you go on like this, we won't get into that situation at all. We felt that this is how we defend the Dayton Agreement and the Constitution of BiH, because there are no institutions in either one, and let's see how we will and what we will do. And that I am not opening the story of the essence, because we spoke before a million of our remarks, statements, views, attempts to open dialogue, and then we came into a situation to say that there can only be such justice and prosecution that BiH will defend exclusively in Sarajevo, but that the BiH state cannot defend itself in Banja Luka and Mostar at any cost. And that there can't be a court judge who's going to be tried for the destruction of the state, for the destruction of constitutional order, for I don't know, for the rest, for war crimes and for everything else. I think that's inappropriate. The lynch we're exposed to in the Sarajevo media these days is also inappropriate. I'm not gonna make any comment. Calling on a link of MPs and this kind of conviction, of course, is the consequence of the constitutional commission's stance that has given it the right to react in this way, which results in the creation of irregular conditions for holding today's session and that again in the Sarajevo media, the streets, and even partly in this House, there has been a hate language, that we are not talking about arguments but you cannot, you cannot, at the threat you will be arrested. We come here without an escort, unarmed, and you can arrest us at any moment if you think we can't democratically participate in the debate and that we can't democratically pass laws. Be against these laws, it's a democratic right, any arguments democraticly exploit, every result of the vote will be respected, but the withdrawal of the right, and it's threatened that we can't talk, we can't accept. I don't think there's any reason why we agree on something, one thing we agree on is that it's a problem, one thing is for sure we're looking for a way out of this, because I don't believe there's anyone in this Parliament who's going to stand up and say that in BiH's justice, honey and milk, I don't believe anyone is that crazy. And when no suggestions were answered, then it came to a situation to defend everything at all costs. My colleagues will likely talk about the consequences of the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office as political institutions and all that stands as criticism. If you don't trust citizens, it doesn't matter how it happened, how it can survive an institution and how it can be an independent and just judiciary, and it doesn't trust its country's citizens, not even how it happened, but it's a fact. And instead of opening a dialogue, to get it back, to see how we're going to share justice in the entire BiH area, because there can be no state without justice and justice, but that never means that it has to be the way some want it to be. It could be different. You have many countries where it's different. Does this mean that BiH does not have a health system if it is not at the state level. The health system works even though it has nothing to do with the state level or the very small relationship. And BiH is not without a health system. The SNSD's call is to establish a different system, but a judicial system that will also be tried for war crimes, tried for violence, tried for organised crime, but not to be 32 extended hands of dark centres of power that govern here. There's not a word about an independent judiciary, so better than that, this country, that it manages it rather than the deputies, and who knows all the characters that run this country's justice. So, I wasn't saying, I guess this will still come, and I guess the Constitutional Commission will get the strength and give the green light to discuss this very important issue, and that means saying that this law has, like many others, a constitutional foothold to be in this procedure, and that we will then open a debate on the very essence of what we are proposing. And finally let us hear the arguments of those who disagree with us: what are their suggestions. Let's see, if the attitudes are that everything is ideal, let's see where we are in that, or what people are going to say that say: yes, we disagree with what you're proposing, but here, we have a different proposal. But judging, not allowing the debate and also claiming that nothing is right – I don't think it makes sense. If you think it's normal what's been happening to us over the past few months in the Sarajevo media, I'm talking about the Sarajevo media, not about the RS media, on four or five sides of the facts about everything that's been said there, on the media for 10, 15 minutes, and that they don't even have any comments on journalists, nor are those to whom this mass is related -- I think it's unsustainable, whether you agree with me or not, but I think it's unsustainable. What the Sarajevo media are doing, here is soon the chairman of this country's presidency, I think, people, that it's unsustainable. That's brutal. What it says there and what it stands for, or, if it's true, something needs to be done or told people: that man will represent and represent the BiH state, on three, five or ten sides. Five, ten or twenty minutes, facts, people and everything. If you think it's sustainable and it's a picture of the state and you don't need to change it, then insist, find ways to end any debate about what we've tried about, and even so on, to be honest, in a slightly radical way, to suggest, because there's no respect for other human observations, non-governmental sectors, organizations, war victims. Here the victims of the last war in Parliament have been crying out here for four or five years and each time remind you that they are dissatisfied, here MPs, and no one responds to that. No Niko responds to that, yet is asked of us to be obedient, to be content, to clap, to support, to pay, to choose, and what is not required of us. And then someone wants to say that we are the highest legislative authority in this country and that they're supposed to be asking all of us. We don't care when it comes to the judiciary, but at the same time we're asked every day, from those media that are now crucifying us, to answer to the public for crime, for corruption, for war crimes, for everything else, that we are the ones who are responsible because, of course, it's coming out of the context that we have instruments and mechanisms that we can affect all of this. It is quite clear that we do not have, that we are exclusively for the pillar of shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8729	Thank you. The following has been reported for the debate by the distinguished representative Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8730	Thank you, Chairman. I will speak on behalf of the Serbian Democratic Party Club, which is one of the legislators of these two laws. So my discussion concerns both laws. And I must say immediately that the Constitutional Commission's decision is that the unconstitutional proposal for this law is a failure of the democratic capacity of this parliament. It means that we can propose laws without being able to demand the abolition of these laws, because something that doesn't make any sense is clearly about non-democratic violence. We're ready to talk here about all the issues, to make arguments, to hear counterarguments, but we're not 33 ready to be called destroyers by the media, as individuals who need to be exposed to the lynch. I also have to say my surprise that a few MPs here, our colleagues, were in the media making statements that were taken by us as an invitation to the lynch. All this is happening and right now about the protest in front of the BiH Parliament and the information that we have now sent to people to check that those who have been protested are now released to the BiH restaurant – points out that things are not going regularly here and we will have to take another look at our participation in democratic institutions in Sarajevo. So this is about two laws that represent the political will of most citizens of Republika Srpska. Why is such a political will in the RS? It's a basic question that everyone should ask themselves and give an answer to. Because the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office have shown that institutions that are not only in the service of justice and justice but also in the service of politics and political goals. So, they had a chance to show themselves as institutions that are impartial and that share justice and protect the interests of all BiH citizens, and they gambled that chance. They had a chance, despite not being set up in a democratic procedure, but at the legal imposition of the High Representative, who thus took the right to directly end the Dayton Agreement, without respecting the constitution's provision that the judiciary is not in the jurisdiction of the common state. Here's the question: What was Volfgang Petriča's intention? That they share justice with citizens who cannot be obtained in entity justice or that they have an instrument for political processes in BiH through the Court and the Prosecutor's Office? I don't know what his intention was, but it's clear to everyone what they've turned into – institutions most citizens think are making political decisions, or that they don't trust their independence and objectivity. How is it possible in an independent and independent country, which is a member of the UN and which has democratic institutions tasked with passing laws and amending the Constitution, that function is taken by an institution that has no democratic capacity, which does not reflect the political will of the citizens of the BiH state? The laws and the constitution can only be adopted in two ways – by democratic decision or by decision of force. The decision on the establishment of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office was not taken by democratic means, but imposed by political force. For this reason, the Court and the Prosecutor's Office have held a mortgage since its very establishment. This case also raises fundamental questions – is BiH an independent, sovereign and democratic country or protectorate where decisions are made in accordance with the interests of others? It is a question of another kind of debate that I am sure will one day be opened because without an internal agreement based on the interests of all there is no better future in BiH. You will kazaće that the democratic procedure is respected because it was subsequently voted by the BiH Parliament in 2002. Indeed, the imposed decision reads: "This imposition is temporary and will be temporary until the BiH Parliament votes it in the same form without changes." Is that democracy? This is about direct pressure and blackmail. Should it be noted that decisions taken under duress rather than personal will are not legally valid? Am I right, we will ask for a statement from those MPs from the RS who later voted in favour of imposed decisions. In such a short time, how did the Court and the Prosecutor's Office manage to lose every credibility with the citizens of the RS? The reason is much in both segments – organized crime and war crimes. The activities of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office on the process of organised crime and corruption are devastating. The prosecution has embarked on processes against the political personality of a high political profile without solid evidence to launch the trial and has suffered a failure in the trials. Mirko Šarović spent one year in prison at the prosecution's request to find that he was not guilty at any point in the indictment, and it was the man who performed his highest post in BiH, he was the RS president and member of the presidency and chairman of the BiH presidency. The message was clear: whoever does not represent the policy created in Sarajevo, but not in BiH institutions, will be exposed to personal 34 persecution regardless of whether he has any real guilt. That's what happened to SDS member Cicko Bjelica. A similar process was passed by Mladen Ivanić, but he defended himself from freedom, and he had terrible traumas due to persecution. There are wounds left in both the soul and the body and the family that I don't talk about. I don't want to talk about Dragan Čović and the others because I referred to the RS opinion. There were still cases of political processing that filled the daily press pages. And what would happen in the end? Processes to surrender to the jurisdiction of entity justice to be rejected. After the persecution that the members of the SDS had before the Court and the tužilaštvo's Office, I often listened to the comments: we must vote as they ask us to, shall we pass as our own! Isn't all this more than enough for the perception of the Court's abuse for political purposes? Who will be responsible for these cases of haughtiness and violence by these judicial institutions? Niko of those who set them off and designed them. The damages are charged from the BiH budget, meaning from citizens' pockets. So much for crime and corruption. Distrust in the Court and the BiH Prosecutor's Office in the area of war crimes trials is even greater. 90% of Srbin convicted, and the non-processing of apparent war crimes against Srbin created a perception of the court's objectivity and political motivation. The verdicts are divided by a stricter law which was not applicable at the time of the act and thus is impertinently violated by one of the basic judicial principles – it is judged by a law which was then valid or by the current if it is more favourable for the convict. The victims of the last war are divided into two categories: those whose perpetrators will respond, and those second-rate ones whose perpetrators can sleep peacefully. Should it be said that these for the Court and the Prosecution are second-rate victims are certainly Srbin, and first-rate, it is known. And all mothers, regardless of faith, nation and color, have the same pain for lost children. This is against every morale and such selectivity that is easily expressed in figures created in the RS the belief that it is not about justice but at least about the selective justice of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. How do we explain that we recently heard from the media that the BiH Prosecutor's Office's criminal case was suspended against 50 people, mostly SDS members, to help hide Radovan Karadžić for more than two years, as it is clear to all that none of them participated. Niko of them even knew they were under criminal investigation. The investigation wasn't actually conducted, and these cases were kept in the drawer so they could be a means of pressure if needed. And look at the coincidences, just a few days before this announcement, outgoing prosecutor Džad Romano, as well as his colleague before that Dejvid Švendimen of the Tuzla column case, announced a suspension of the investigation into the dobrovoljački case and the amnesty of the crime whose witnesses were millions of people who were in '92. For years, they've watched a direct TV broadcast. And that should be a balance: a suspended investigation into the non-existent helpers of the hiding of Karadžić and the amnesty of those who ordered and committed the slaughter in Dobrovoljska. Does anyone think we're totally blind and... we don't see what this is about? All of this was part of the reason why we believe these two institutions should be abolished. It is a legitimate proposal by MPs behind which two of the largest RS parties, a request supported by most of the other RS parties, and, most importantly, supports the vast majority of RS citizens, which would certainly be confirmed in the referendum on this issue that it was held. It is a ligite requirement that we know will not be supported by those who are not in favour of the agreement that this society will function, those who seek BiH to be a protectorate, counting that someone else will meet their political goals by political force, not by internal agreement. I must stress that without an internal agreement, BiH has no chance for the future, and our children will not live better than we do now. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8731	I'm asking the honourable representative to take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8732	Okay, I put two points together, I'll be done soon. The various high representatives come and go, they have absolute immunity for their actions, and they later write memoirs about the stay here to make our misfortune richer, and we argue here, we fight the people, we don't respect the interests of others, and we run politics: let the neighbors die a cow, even if it's milk and we live. Finally, the Serbian Democratic Party believes that a complete justice system is necessary to reform and clean up those who have worked on someone's order, not by the letter of law and justice. This also applies to the judiciary in entities that have become the protector of large-scale crime and corruption and thus hinders any development of society forward, without..., which would once again set the principles of the rule of law, cannot expect any economic and any other progress. This should be a priority for all but those who have been illegally enriched overnight at the expense of ordinary people who think they have protection in such a judicial system. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8733	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Bosić. So time is over in three minutes, but since he spoke on behalf of the club, I have tolerated it. Next, Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović came forward for the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8734	Wait a minute, it's being respected. So the advantage is business intervention. Dear Ambassador Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8735	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that adequate conditions for the work of the House of Representatives have been created under the Rules of Procedure. Namely, I am believing that the protest participants in front of this building have left this space, although the opposite of the law have organized a protest, but there is obviously a direct link between the holder of functions here in the Parliamentary Assembly that allowed them to enter the restaurant of the House of Representatives, so I don't know, maybe they will come to this hall, anything is possible. But I don't think that under this kind of pressure this session can be held here, and I ask the Kolegijum to provide us with an answer to the question: who, therefore, authorized the entry or eventually organized this kind of protest in front of the building, contrary to the law? The question is very brief, there's no need to further explain it and bring additional unrest into this room, but I think there are objectively justified reasons for the session to end, and for the College to inform us. So, I think we need a break to get conditions for the House of Representatives' work. Thank you very much. 36
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8736	Wait a minute, please. You'll get answers to questions that I can personally answer in my jurisdiction. But here, before I answer that, I allow all of you who have business interventions to express yourself. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8737	I am absolutely on the line to respect both the request for a break and everything that the Rules of Procedure allows to be used, absolutely. However, we too need to be respected by 42 of us sitting here. So if you really think and feel like you're not safe here, people, let's stop this session. Don't take every 15 minutes one break, another break, and some news. What's this about? I'm asking the College because this has really crossed all the lines. What kind of uncertainty, what people, what restaurant? What are you talking about, they have no idea who's sitting here, and every 15 minutes let's take a break. Give the rest of us a little respect.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8738	Thank you. My fellow Members and fellow Members, please, so after the first break requested, it was made, I say, a brief meeting and I asked the Secretary of the Joint Service for information on the event. I received a notice from the BiH institution's Director for Joint Affairs, which is addressed to the Kolegijum. Notice: We would like to inform you that about 10.30 hours today in front of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly building, there has been a gathering of citizens from several associations whose representatives would like to receive them for talks with the chairman of the House of Representatives or one of the vice-chairs of the House of Representatives. It is the representatives of the following associations: Justice for Peace Association, Women's Victims of War Association, Association "The Alliance of the Campers of BiH", "The Association of Parents of the Murdered Children of Sarajevo", Association "Cantonal Association of Campers of Sarajevo", Association of the Movement "Mother Enclaves of Srebrenica and Žepa“, and ask us for instruction on the submitted request of those associations, to act in accordance with your instructions and representatives of the aforementioned associations, to enable or prohibit us to enter the building of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. One of the vice presidents sent them a message saying they could talk to the counselor if they wanted to. They said no. The other members of the College did not have the opportunity to meet with them today, and we felt that the request that came this way and only in a few, let me say, hours before the session was held was not adequately addressed. The College, i.e. as chairman, I have sent the Director a letter saying that this request will be considered in one of the College sessions, as has been done so far and considered all the requirements that have come in an adequate manner. I don't have any information that someone came to the restaurant. I can and I have the right to take a break or at the request of the club for every item of the agenda, as it says in the Rules of Procedure. If anyone has a need, I have not received from the competent institutions any information that the need is that expressed to seek a break and within this item of the agenda I will give a break and in the same way, as when the first break is sought, ask for information and give it to you. 37 Thank you. Mr. Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8739	Thank you for your information, Your Honor. So, it's quite clear, we're looking for a break. If you need more than 15 minutes, it's no problem. We're looking for who let those protesters into the restaurant building.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8740	Are they there and who let them go?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8741	Please, who let them into Parliament building? They're there. 15 minutes break.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8742	Before I take a break, business intervention. Mr. Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8743	I don't know how many times we're gonna ask for breaks today? It really needs to be made clear whether there is any security for MPs here or not. I just need to say this. The chairman and vice-president of the House of Representatives has come to request that we receive representatives of the six associations. I, in contrast to that request, manifested myself in a way that I said that I was ready to meet with other colleagues to pick up one of those associations' representatives, and I'm willing to talk and listen to these people myself. Afterwards, I was informed that six representatives wanted to talk and today we are planning a break between 14:00 and 15.00, and I scheduled a meeting with them to listen to these people as vice president of the House of Representatives. So that's what I told our services, and since they did this technical part of the job, it's on them. So I don't see that there's anything controversial about it, and I don't see that there are any threats to anyone's safety. If there's a security threat, let the competent institutions resolve it, not that we're wasting our time here.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8744	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, after explaining to a member of the College that he had received these six people at his request, in a way that they would wait for a break in the restaurant, so that he would receive them, it is, I say, too much to ask for special information from the Secretariat now. If this is enough explanation, I would ask you to continue the work; if you are still looking for a break and further explanations, I will give a break and further try to get the information. Dear Ambassador Borislav Bojić. Here you go. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8745	15 minutes of break is necessary and I will personally see to it that the accuracy of the allegations said by the first deputy, since there is obviously a connection here between those who organised this illegal protest and those sitting in this House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8746	Thank you. 15 minutes break, at SDS request. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, we have a quorum to work with. The SDS club asked for a break. Do you need to comment? Yes, you do. A commentary of the break, please. Dear Ambassador Borislav Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8748	So I'm based on what I can come up with, and I hope the service will give a written answer, and it's come to my understanding that there's a direct connection and abuse, so those who unannouncedly protested in front of this building, and in that sense, it's pretty clear to me what this is all about. So, the client of the entire protest sits here, in these rooms, and it's not the organizer. I'm sorry that these people here are being used, putting them in function, as they do. Let's make it an honor. And as far as I'm concerned, it's no problem for the session to continue. But obviously, this kind of approach to solving these problems is something that is not appropriate to this Parliament and, after all, I don't think that this is how any association should be accepted. I guess it could have been announced sooner. If this is how we treat all those who organise protests in front of this House of Representatives, I fear we will introduce one practice that will later have serious repercusions, when it comes to the problems facing the House of Representatives, and not only him but also the House of Peoples and many others.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8749	Thank you. Dear MP Šemsudin Mehmedović appeared for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8750	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have three bill proposals today, which will obviously take the most time, which at first glance have nothing in common, but are essentially very attached to each other. 39 I have read the reasons of the motion all three laws. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the Court of Justice of BiH, then the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Act on the Prosecution of the Prosecutors of BiH, whose proponents are Honorary Representative Drago Kalabić and Darko Babalj, and the Proposed Law on the Prohibition of Denunation, Minimising, Justification or Approval of the Holocaust, Crimes of Genocide, Crimes Against Humanity, whose proposings are MPs Ahra Hadžiahmetović and Beriz Belkić, which we had under point 5. Of course, I don't think I'm going back with a discussion at this point, but I want to make one essential connection between these three laws. For the first two draft laws, most likely, there will not be enough votes today because the Commission's report is negative. For the third, unfortunately, too. The first and second draft laws are a direct blow to the BiH state. The third bill is in the service of preservation of the BiH state and is one of the preconditions for peaceful co-existence of all three constituent nations and other peoples, as well as of all its citizens. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, every democratic state rests on three pillars of power: legislative, executive and judicial. If at least one of these three pillars is threatened, the state loses stability and like a tripod whose leg breaks down, and the one or all of us sitting on it, we fall together with it. These three pillars of the government of every democratic state are above all an existential issue of the survival of every country, including ours. Proposals for a law on the termination of the law on the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office in essence, including formal, frontal and, above all, an unconstitutional blow to judicial authority denies the BiH state's right to survive. By failing to adopt 'The Law prohibiting denial, minimisation, justification or approval of holocausts, crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity', first of all, because of MPs here from RS, who will not raise hands for this law today, the right to survive two constituent peoples in BiH is denied in one good part of BiH – Bosniak and Croatian. And to make the whole situation more tragic, the right to the survival of the Serbian people, Jevrej, Rom and others is denied, precisely because of the war crimes committed and the crimes of the Holocaust in World War II. When there's no state, there's no people, well, then, then, there'll be only entities left. You are guessing, the RS and the Federation, but also the Federation of BiH divided into two parts. At that time, the war goals of the aggressors on BiH will finally be met. The Bošnjak will be compressed into twenty per cent of the current territory of BiH, and the other two parts will be attached to the mother countries, as it is called. Proposers, Mr Kalabić and Babalj, ignore the International Court of Justice's judicial verdicts in The Hague, the only relevant international court instance to decide on these issues, the genocide committed over the BiH population. They don't need a clear letter from Dejton about the powers, rights and obligations of the BiH state. They also forget all the Dejtona based powers given to the High Representative, as the supreme interpreter of the Dejton letter. They argue that BiH is not a state, that it is entities that form the state and that BiH's constitutional powers are derived from entities. They also claim that by imposing the law on the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the High Representative violated the Constitution and rewritten it without asking anyone. So how can changes, or laws, be proposed, that removes something that is not recognized by someone here? Not referring to the profession but to advertisements, such as some kind of political pomflet, not a serious explanation that should be professional and relevant, accuse everyone and everyone of conspiracy against Srbin. So, not citizens who are all equal before the court, but only Srbin. And by extracting from the context, they also abuse the opinions of foreign foundations and international commissions. 40 And as we bear witness to that people's saying 'it's not snowing to cover the hill, but that every beast shows its mark', so the gentlemen of this law cite even as the President of the Court of BiH stands by instrumentalising the Sarajevo media for attacks on the RS and its authorities as well as judges from the RS who accuse Milorad Dodik of destroying the BiH Court of Justice, e, here we are. Isn't this an anti-constitutional act, Lord Proposer? This counter-constitutional act, a desperate attempt to avoid even the possibility of responsible for a possible misdemeanor and possible crime of a man, whom they themselves mention in their own explanation. That's why, gentlemen, you haven't once asked yourself why we were put into a situation where the High Representative imposes laws on us. Why are you making a persistent substitute for the thesis that entities are older than the state? I'll tell you. The entity's vote is the direct consequence of genocide and ethnic cleansing carried out by so-called The JNA, and later Serbia and the RS Army. If you already have a great desire to revise state laws, revise and analyse the implementation of the Dayton Agreement, you will conclude that RS has not implemented, say, Annex VII. An agreement that speaks of the return of all the exiled and refugees to their homes, all those who were not killed in genocide and war crimes, which has led to a decision on the establishment of the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office. Because by denying genocide, by resisting the adoption of the law on genocide and holocaust and, ultimately, by bringing down the law on the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the grounds for the prosecution of war crimes and genocide in Srebrenica, but also the whole of BiH, as well as those seven municipalities that are today being tried by Karadžić and Mladić before The Hague court. It is precisely because of genocide, war crimes and ethnic cleansing today in RS areas, and there are not a million people throughout BiH. Ladies and gentlemen, the genocide in BiH over the Bosniak people has been committed, and that is the judicial, human and God's truth. Entities are not states, and courts and prosecutors are pillars and guarantees of the existence of each state, as well as BiH. In this regard and the proposed laws of this kind and the arguments written, not to say, in the spirit and form of a simple quasi-political pomflet, there is only one more motive for us to endure in our efforts to make BiH a prosperous and state of equal peoples and citizens, both unconditionally and throughout its territory. Instead of discussing today an external trade debt that has been recorded by tens of billions of deficits, employment and the start of an economy, we here should consider the anti-constitutional proposals of the law, as established by the Constitutional Commission. That's why I think it's high time that the same BiH Prosecutor's Office, whose existence here is denied, finally initiates the processes and examines the possible criminal responsibility of all those who have tried to tear down the BiH Constitution and state over the past few years. And finally, gentlemen, with all due respect, you still insult my and my colleagues' intelligence and dignity with your suggestions. For all this, I refuse to participate in any further debate, and with disgust I reject your proposals and support the Constitutional Commission's position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8751	Thank you. Comrades and fellow MPs, agenda points are opinions debates. Given the discussions that have been so far and the desire to say everything and everything here, I warn you that this session will last if it takes tomorrow, for everyone to say what they think, and within these two points of the agenda. I have enough patience and nerve to listen to all of you, and I ask you to stick to 41 points of the agenda, so that you Members of the Parliament will not have any reproof about not sticking to the agenda. The lunch break, which some of the members of the College are looking for every minute, will be at 2.30 and we will continue, if we do not finish this debate on this agenda point, after lunch break that lasts an hour. Now we're going in a row. Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8752	Mr. Chairman, I respect and accept everything you've said. In the discussion, I spoke most of what the Constitutional Commission was doing, but the replica is something that was caused. It's not good for a respected fellow with someone else's text, from someone else's head written, to come out after, and, well, that's his correct reaction, maybe to some extent, given everything he does and what he represents. It's a shame this parliament doesn't have a window. And it would be good to open the windows sometimes so that the stupid things that come out as soon as possible, not to drive around here between us and us thinking about what anybody said and what they said. But since it's a series of these, and I don't think that's what's wrong with them, that's ridiculous. Dear Mr. Mehmedović said -- this is the BiH Constitution. I will eat the constitutional provision that I have broken by proposing these laws and everything that is written in the BiH Constitution from what he has said – I will eat. So much for breaking the Constitution, and he has nothing to do with the Constitution. No one would write to him if he knew what the Constitution was. So that's one thing. After this, it is likely that RS citizens will organise the ovations by calling for the co-existence of Mr Mehmedović. So much for his relationship with these questions. Of course this is language and hate speech, that someone who, in the legal, business and any other orderly procedure proposes solutions. In these proposals, no one has ever called on anyone to be tried for war crimes in this country, for organized crime, for the destruction of the constitutional order of this country, for anything else. Did you suggest a different way? That people should be judged for deeds, and not that they should not be judged, for now they are not judged. And that's the point. The preservation of what Mr. Mehmedović is saying is a space for one people, for one group of people, for one opinion and its clear message: if you are not slaves and subjects, I do not see you here in this space. Clear and unequivocal. Because he has today called for the processing of those involved in the democratic institutions of this country to be processed. It is a modern form of Sharia law in BiH, a modern form. How can someone who proposes the law in the procedure be called, and the bill, to destroy the state? The law is subject to amendments. The law is acted in different ways in the procedure. The law is changing. Well, and then if you're not satisfied with the initial text of the promoter, you have the right to change it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8753	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8754	I'm sorry. But the invitation, this is the first time in this House, to process people to break a constitution that has nothing to say about, because they participate in this country's parliamentary life, it's unacceptable, people, it's unacceptable. The proposed different organisation of an area of life in 42 BiH to interpret as a violation of the constitutional order is totally unacceptable. As Mehmedović did today, so did Borisav Jović in Belgrade in the 1990s. He called on one and foamed and spoke, and life went to another during. Also, if Mehmedović and the like continue, life here will go the same way, and he will be trapped with what he was talking about today.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8755	Thank you. First Vice-President, honourable Ambassador Božo Ljubić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8756	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, regardless of how much I know that we are currently discussing the report of the Constitutional Commission and, regardless of the warning of a colleague of the chairman, it is impossible to actually explain his position and statement on this item of the agenda without touching the essence. And that's why I didn't in any way resent these people who were saying, so within this point, talk about the very essence. Finally, the proposer himself, and I, as the current chairman, allowed even time overruns, explained in fact the laws. I will make my point about this for a lot of reasons, and partly because I've been made public in the media, because I wasn't present at the Constitutional Commission meeting, and of course, I wasn't the reason for my non-participation in that session to be unprepared for this matter, but for other reasons. I'll speak my mind immediately about the essence. So, one country in order to be able to carry..., the state must have adequate state institutions, so on and in the judiciary. However, these institutions should be so designed, organised and thus operate to respond to their purpose, to deserve the trust of their citizens, and in a country like BiH and their people, or their legitimate political representatives. The question now arises why someone, and I think it is a legitimate request, is asking for a review or even an abolition of those institutions 11 years after being imposed by a decision of the High Representative and almost 10 years after they have been confirmed in this Parliament. Clearly, therefore, there are certain reasons. The State Court and the Prosecution and the General Judicial System of BiH is, I would say, miles away from the ideal that should be answered, and I have brought it out here in these two points. A lot of questions can be asked here at the centre of the BiH justice system today, but I will say it in a few sentences, but after the next question and answer it. Would the abolition of these institutions, however, solve the problem? I don't think so. They should be replaced by better and more adequate ones. We need to replace these institutions with institutions whose centre will be law and justice, not the influence of any international deputies, any political powers in BiH, whether economic lobbies or even the influence of the legal lobby itself. So here's the kind of justice system we need to build, not the kind we see in American movies, where there are prosecutors and lawyers at the center of the system, not law and justice. Therefore, I am in favour of us joining the reform of that system. There are a lot of questions mentioned here. My colleague Bosić even talked about individual cases, so I don't intend to repeat them here, and here I remember two cases where the same court, only the second Judicial Council today issued a verdict for war crimes for 40 years, so maximum punishment, and after 43 years of acquittal. Or today for 30 years, and after, I don't know, a couple of years of acquittal. So it's obvious that this system needs to be changed. Now let's see this point of view about the debate at all about these proposals. So I'll talk here based on logic and common sense. If there was a constitutional basis to establish these institutions and if this is this parliament, so after the High Representative had imposed, he had already concluded and voted in such a way, then I do not see that there is no constitutional basis for discussing their revision now. I would like to see the point of this motion read: 'amending and supplementing the law on the Court and the Prosecutor's Office.' And if I'm asked whether there is a constitutional basis for judicial institutions, i.e. the Court and the Prosecutor's Office at the state level, I say yes. And I don't dispute that. But also here on this issue, in fact, they're leading some, I'd say, other political battles, and that's what, I think, requires all of us to have one maximum responsibility to get the ball down on the ground, and in a way that we're also dealing with these events that happen on the sidelines of this session and that's why these breaks are wanted. I believe that, if this debate today is about this item of the agenda, no matter what the outcome of today's decision-making will be, and tomorrow, possibly, if this comes back to the Constitutional Commission again -- it can also be good if it is a reason to enter into one of the root reform of this judicial system in BiH. So here's how I would end this debate. And to be fully open, here and here, I will now say as a political representative of the Croatian people and a member of the Croatian bloc's party behind this Council of Ministers, I would naturally be the last person in BiH to advocate that judicial authorities at the state level be transferred to such entities.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8757	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Mato Franjičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8758	So I will, however, try to stay within the framework of the agenda point, so I will try to say something very briefly about the opinion of the Constitutional Commission, which I am a member of, but unfortunately I was unable to attend his session the day before yesterday. My position is next. The Law on the Court of Justice, i.e. the Law on the Prosecutor's Office and the Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, i.e. the Law on the Prosecution of the case, which is interpreted by the exact opposite, is necessarily the same in the matter of compliance with the Constitution of BiH. Every different interpretation is ridiculous. This can then draw all sorts of conclusions, but I wouldn't want to drink much in this constitutional issue. I'll skip everything because Mr. Ljubić said a series of things I was going to say. I'll just say this one more time. In the constitutional sense, it is, but in a political and practical sense, it is certainly not a crucial issue for the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH – yes or no – but for what kind of Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. In order to come into a position to try to answer this question adequately, which, in my opinion, is crucial in political and practical terms, and not what is trying to force, we need to come to a position to discuss it, and, in order to get into a position to discuss it, 44 we must say, the Constitutional Commission must say that there is a constitutional basis. We really need a real debate on this issue, and this debate that we're going to try to hear from, not a debate where we're going to be witnesses, I don't know, two... or two concrete attitudes. One position – the Court and the Prosecutor's Office should be abolished, another position – in the Court and the Prosecutor's Office must not be touched because they are sacred cows. No, of course not. We need to try to hear each other, exchange arguments, confront them, exchange them, and seek a solution that will be in the interest of both these countries and their peoples, and its citizens, and that will result in the reconstruction of the entire judicial framework. It does not have to be a debate only, or just a parliamentary debate, to start that structured dialogue, and it needs to be seriously discussed there, but not with pre-buses taken. I repeat once again, if we try to hear each other's arguments, we try to listen to each other's and the other's and the third's arguments, we can get into a situation to improve both these institutions and make them suitable and necessary and for the needs and interests of all the peoples and of all the citizens of this country, and thus these countries as a whole. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8759	Thank you. Discussion, honourable Ambassador Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8760	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, I will only pay attention to all of you for the negative opinion of the Constitutional Commission. And I want to say that I've been a member of the Constitutional Commission for over five years, so the previous mandate and this part of how long this is going on, and I'd like to say that my impression is that this session and this attitude have been annulled by all the things that have been patiently built over the past years. It is the dignity and authority of the Constitutional Legal Commission of the House of Representatives, i.e. that every initiative is discussed very carefully and that... opinions are therefore adopted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of BiH. We are led by two completely opposite and often paranoid states in BiH: when we challenge something, then it is always considered against this state. I believe that the way we act is by doing this act and making this decision that we are doing much more against BiH than we are doing for BiH I don't see the problem at all of what it is to discuss a bill that is in line with the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of BiH. So, the fundamental right of the legislative body to initiate the initiative, to hold a debate on something, what the results of the law have been established... institutions that we think are not in line with the BiH Constitution, but we have again launched an initiative to hold discussions in the Parliamentary Assembly. And after a decision has been made in the Parliamentary Assembly, and such an attitude will be for us as it is, therefore binding. To eliminate the very debate on the issue is extremely undemocratic and to deny the basic rights of BiH's highest legislative body to conduct a debate on some laws. I'll remind you, obviously there is a problem in BiH. There's a problem, clearly it's about imposed laws. An initiative on the assessment of the constitutionality of these two laws has been launched. It is clear that for both of these laws a constitutional basis has been found, but how and in what way?- I'm sorry. So as they were imposed, so from the Office of the High Representative, the three judges of the Constitutional Court of Foreigners and the two judges of the Bosniak people voted there was a constitutional basis. The four judges of the Constitutional 45 Court of BiH, two in the order of the Serbian and Croatian people... were against this attitude and therefore wrote their own separate opinions, and surely it is legal experts. On the other hand, we have the devastating results of the activities of these two institutions, first of all, the BiH Prosecutor's Office. It's a disturbing situation. I won't repeat what your colleagues are about... We have a situation that one constitutive people thinks that it is exclusively an object of persecution and mounted process by these institutions, they do not view it as their institution. A constituent people in BiH wants to open a debate on this and the Constitutional Commission finds that there is no constitutional basis and thus even prevents the debate on the principles of the law. I very much respect Mr. Šefik Džaferović for everything he has done for the previously constructive work of the Constitutional Commission. I am not and cannot explain to anything what was the reason why it was now, on a similar principle, that it was for the Constitutional Court's decision to repeat the same situation here: that three members of the Constitutional Commission of the political parties that therefore belong to the Serb people were the constitutional basis of this law, and that five members, also, conditionally speaking from Bosniak, different people... were absolutely against it, i.e. there is no constitutional basis. I would like to propose to this home, in order to preserve the rule of law, to build a rule of law, that what should be the future of BiH, that the House of Representatives today rejects a negative opinion, return it to the Constitutional Commission for review, and that after that, in a calm and normal atmosphere, we are having a debate on these issues, in order to get out of the problems we are currently in and who, I say, are not responding to anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8761	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8762	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, so first of all, I'm going to be commenting on the dilemmas about whether the MPs have the right or not to propose the law. I remind all of us here in this hall of Article 99. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives who says the bill can be submitted by any representative and many others. This Rules of Procedure should be the principle of the same as the Constitution should be the principle of how and how institutions operate. Our committees, which before us here consider all that should come before us, should also be guided by certain principles. And it's certain that this kind of debate would not happen then. However, we must agree on the fact that we have trampled many principles. It is not very common in a democratic world, regardless of the right of MPs, which I do not dispute and which I will always protect and defend, that MPs from so-called. The ruling majority, I don't know if he's had it here, from the parliamentary majority, here's something like that, which only seven days ago here swore to each other on other principles, is not quite correct to propose such complex laws. This is too serious a proposal. So, I have to say, this is too serious a proposal. This is about a request, which is absolutely legal for me, absolutely legitimate, to abolish two state institutions. The explanation that I have heard and all of you from the promoters, and I think 46 has been particularly relevant to Mr. Bosić's explanation, it is, in my opinion, an explanation of how badly these institutions function. And it's hard to be against if we want to be correct and principled. So there's been a lot of talk about how these two institutions, here, don't work in the best way possible, so to speak. If we were to go along with this, we could open a debate on the work of this Parliament, so we'll probably come to the conclusion that this Parliament is very ineffective, so the next move should be, however, not the law this time, but the constitutional amendment that we are abolishing this Parliament, I think, which would be the order of logical moves. We've promoted a lot of principles that aren't even in this Rules of Procedure, there's not even in the Constitution that we call upon from time to time, and now it's a little difficult for us to use those principles, and we don't like it very much. I don't know why there's no Council of Ministers' opinion on these very sensitive proposals. The Rules of Procedure, which I am talking about and which I am calling on, implies that any draft law, which is not proposed by the Council of Ministers, is delivered by the Council of Ministers. Since the Council of Ministers has yet to be established and has failed to discuss these issues likely to still be fought, it would be logical that at least on this subject I can give my opinion and say, here, whether these institutions should be abolished, whether these institutions should be reformed and whether any intervention should be taken in relation to these two institutions at all. Unfortunately, for reasons unknown to me, although the Rules of Procedure also allow, if the Council of Ministers fails to deliver its opinion within a business period of time, the draft law goes into procedure, and we have it at the moment. I don't know what we didn't use, but it's not a business instrument, but we used it for much less complex questions, so why didn't we delegate this issue to six leaders? We'd better hear what they think about this. They decide everything in this country, why don't they decide this important issue as well. And let's not do this right now. We've been placed here to fight with each other. I'm not going to fight with Draga. I'm not going with Bojić or Bosić. No need to argue, we're in the same position here. I want to talk to them together about all possible solutions, but let's agree that we here take the responsibility that the people gave us. Let's not hide behind leaders at times, and sometimes we can be independent of leaders. This is a bigger issue, and I, as well as many other issues, will decide on the basis of my beliefs when voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8763	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8764	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, if at all possible in these ten minutes as long as I have time, to state my views. You have seen the views of the Constitutional Commission, this will also be my views which are actually views agreed and views in the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission. There have been a lot of discussions here on how there may be a constitutional basis for the Law on the Court of BiH and the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, and there is no constitutional basis for a law dealing with the same problem, so this proposed law. I would only ask you to very seriously and very responsibly compare these two things, so you will conclude that these were previously the Law on the Court of Justice and the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, which establishes significant competences and competences in the functioning of those 47 institutions, and that the laws proposed to repeal these institutions, namely the termination of these laws, are proposed within 30 days of the date of entry into force of the law proposing the termination of the Law on the Court of Justice and the Law on the Prosecution of BiH, and that, as it is said here, unfinished cases after it ceases, so, the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, taking account of the actual and local jurisdiction, are directed to the competent courts of the entities. I will not speak at all today about the political aspects of this issue, this is a constitutional basis, and I could certainly talk a lot. So I'm just going to talk about the legal aspect of this issue and this problem. And now the question is how is it possible for a serious constitutional commission to even establish a constitutional basis and say that it is in accordance with the Constitution and the legal system that we should abolish the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office within 30 days. What would be the opposite of the BiH Constitution and BiH's legal order in this situation? A lot of things. And in order to answer that question, we need to get into what the Court is doing and what the BiH Prosecutor's Office is doing, so you will see in this law, here I will talk about the Court of Justice, it is similar with the tužilaštvo's Office, that the Court works in the criminal area, that it works in the administrative area and that it works in the appeal area. He has, therefore, a criminal, administrative and appeal jurisdiction. By abolishing the BiH Court of Justice, BiH's criminal law would remain a dead letter on paper, free to be seen as a abolished and numerous crimes and protective facilities that protect these crimes would be unprocessed, i.e. there would be no one to prosecute them, including crimes against constitutional order, the violation of the constitutional order of BiH, the violent violation of the constitutional order, the violent violation of BiH's territorial integrity. These are very important things and a number of other crimes that are strictly prescribed by criminal law. There would be no institution that could react to crimes prescribed by the entity's laws, concerning the sovereignty and territorial integrity of BiH, crimes where economic damage exceeds the borders or lines of an entity and produce major economic damage to BiH. The BiH election process would be blocked, as the BiH Court of Justice is an institution that decides in electoral matters in the second degree, you know it well. The uniform application of state laws to which the BiH Court of Justice is responsible would not be secured, as there would be no one to worry about the uniform application of BiH law, it is a complete legal chaos. The conflict of jurisdiction between entity courts could not be regulated, or regulated, because it is the jurisdiction of the BiH Court to decide on a conflict of jurisdiction between entity courts. Property disputes between entities could not be settled. The extradition of the defendants, therefore the extradition outside BiH would be questionable, therefore stopped because it is the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. The administrative department that settles administrative disputes under the decisions of the state authorities would be completely out of the system. So these are just some of the things that I needed to say to prove what would come together in the constitutional and legal system if such a law, God Bog, was adopted. And that is why this law has no constitutional basis, which is why it is contrary to the BiH Constitution and is therefore contrary to the BiH legal order. This is not 'The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court and the Law on the Prosecution, this is a law that says: within 30 days of that institution, what happens after that, what I care about, will be chaos. E won't be a mess. That's why there's this parliament that won't allow that kind of chaos. And that is why I have expressed my surprise that colleagues have made up their mind or policies, not to talk about my colleagues, about policies, about bringing policies like this into Parliament. This is an unusual situation that is not foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. I've been thinking about how to do it for a long time, but after the College reacted by borrowing the Constitutional Commission as competent to handle it, I didn't have another way out. There was a dilemma about these things that Mr. Lozančić was talking about, which are related to article 100, I think 101. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives, which refer to the need for the College, if the MP, to obtain the opinion of the Directorate for European Integrations on the conformity of Law 48 with the acguis communautaire or if the Council of Ministers does not propose that it is mandatory within 20 days to declare the law. So these are the things that I counted to say something about the absence, that is, the opposition of these laws, because we are talking about both laws, with the Constitution and the BiH legal system. Let me now say a few sentences about what this law is called upon when it speaks, proposing when it comes to the justification of the law with the Constitution. Well, people, is it possible for someone to write that the first sentence of the BiH Constitution, which reads that 'the Republic of BiH continues to exist under international law as a UN member state with a changed structure...', reads that 'the BiH state that is defined only outside', which is written in the light of this document, and not according to the inside, and that all the authorities within BiH have entities. It's the starting position of this document. And that's the problem. Or someone to say: the moment the Republic of BiH signed the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH with the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Croatia, and with entities of some of the annexes of the General Framework Agreement for Peace, BiH ceased to exist and that no more the Republic of BiH and no more BiH. It says here: they only have entities. So that's the explanation of this document. Or someone to say: the fact that the Republic of BiH signed the Dayton Peace Agreement as an entity is so accidentally a reflection of the opportunities on the ground, someone should have signed it, although it is questionable. So that's what the document says. I was talking about a document like that. And then you come to a situation where you read a document that tries to challenge, thus explaining the constitutional basis for this law or for these laws, the Proposer is actually trying to challenge the constitutional basis for the Law on the Court of Justice and the Law on the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. Please, please, in at least five places in the BiH Constitution, besides the BiH Constitutional Court questioning the constitutionality of these laws twice, you have explained what the constitutional basis for these laws is. Look at the article's provision... The BiH Constitution, which says BiH and both entities will ensure the highest level of internationally recognised human rights and fundamental freedoms. To this end, there is a Commission on Human Rights for BiH, as provided for in Annex VI. A general framework agreement for peace in BiH. And in Annex VI, when it comes to this commission, it is said that equal standards will be provided for all in the country in respect of internationally recognised human rights and freedoms. In order for this to happen to Bosnia and Herzegovina, not only does the Court and the Prosecutor's Office need it, we must have the Supreme Court. The other thing is that other people don't think so, but I'm reading documents now, they're right here in front of me. Take further a provision that speaks of non-discrimination. The enjoyment of the rights and freedoms provided for in this Article or in international agreements must therefore be ensured by freedom, regardless of any kind of difference, equal to all citizens. Who can do that in BiH? Does there have to be a regulator? Take the direct responsibility of BiH, Article III, to those ten responsibilities that we call very often, so look under the G-point), says BiH, therefore its institutions, is responsible for 'implementing international and inter-entity criminal laws, including relations with Interpol'. So then,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8765	Time! 49
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8766	Additional responsibilities. In addition to the competences agreed by entities, the State may assume competences for the realisation of Aneks v., VI, VII. and VIII. The Dayton Peace Agreement, as well as those needed to preserve sovereignty, territorial integrity, political independence and the international subjectivity of BiH. So, I could talk more, I'll respect this time, I'm sorry that I've gone too far here for one minute in this discussion, this is just a quick matter of few of these arguments and I'm asking you to understand that the Constitutional Commission has made very serious and very responsible approaches to this problem. And I think that the promoters should be very grateful to the Constitutional Commission for getting this out of the process. Bog did not allow us to see these laws come into force, what chaos would occur in BiH. And my warnings went that way and that way. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8767	Thank you. Replica, honourable Ambassador Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8768	I think it's a different replica and I won't be able to use it anymore, but I owe it and I have to answer the line. I am grateful, and I am grateful to the chairman of the Constitutional Commission, in this textual interpretation of the right, which is easy to free, it is in our case, and I do not know whether this jargon applies here; it is the one when you interpret the right in a Sabbath way, then you give it very slowly to someone else to show it in some way or to the cyrian interpretation, so they say. So Mr. Džaferović didn't say one thing, so he didn't say why in the April and Butmir package, international experts and others insisted that justice be placed in the Constitution. Why? Because it's not in the Constitution and it's not constitutional. If there is, what will smart, powerful people ask you to put it on? There isn't. He writes the clear jurisdiction of the BiH institutions in the Constitution in the Dayton Agreement, which he also signed at the time as president of your political party, where he said foreign policy is important, where he put it as an important customs policy, where he put monetary policy, a last name and a name. It's not the law of the Sabbath or anything like that. It's monetary policy. That means the RS can't have its currency and the Central Bank and I don't know the rest either. But he said I could have extra jurisdiction and wrote the procedure. The procedure was respected by the RS when it comes to defence competencies, by agreement between two entities, two prime ministers and we do not dispute that jurisdiction. Transferred as the Constitution and the Dayton Agreement say. But we can't interpret the will of a bully as a constitutional provision. We can't do a broad interpretation. Look at the powers of the entities in the area of law and justice. And at least you know, Mr. Džaferović, as judge, that in the Court of Justice you once tried people under Article 133 of the former Criminal Law of Yugoslavia for endangering the constitutional order of Yugoslavia. At that time, people in municipalities could be imprisoned because they threaten the constitutional order of the state, they could. Not one word of the SNSD has called for these laws to stop being tried for war crimes, to stop judging for crime, endangerment and everything else, we just say in another way. And of course there's a series of unknowns here that, in the event of the adoption of these laws, would resolve it with additional suggestions, not by denying this... point that out. Why do you think the Mostar court is incapable of judging for the most serious crimes? What makes you think that only the court of my people, my party, my leader is the only one responsible? It's not. And 50 constitutional basis, Mr. Džaferović, I guess you are now clear one thing, you have today established a Bosniak constitutional basis, a Serbian constitutional basis and a Croatian constitutional basis. Is it clear to you that the right that is universal You have succeeded and completely nationalally divided it?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8769	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8770	And I'm ending it, today you've received information that there is a constitutional basis which is unfortunately... Now, your constitutional foundation is so strong that your snow has lifted it. And you'll have a constitutional basis at the next session of the Commission, we'll have another... So much for constitutional law, because you had to make sure that together we had to come up with some things, not just act: if it's in the interests of the Srbin, I will; if it's in the interest of the Bošnjak, you've promoted it, the Bosniak-Constitutional basis, it's not me. How we came to vote among all the peoples as they vote, about that then, but that's a fact, notor fact.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8771	Mr. Džaferović, I believe that your replica will cause more replicas and there are those who have applied for incorrect allegations, do you agree to take a break for an hour so we can continue like this?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8772	microphone not enabled
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8773	Go ahead, replica, honourable MP Šefik Džaferović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8774	My kolega Kalabić, I interpreted the Constitution and the law based on methods interpreted right, which are learned in the first year of law school, which are linguistic, grammatical, telelogical, historical, whatever, yeah, interpretation. And what you're saying, it really looks like this kind of interpretation that you're talking about, what you called a shab, then a civvy. What you're saying is, it's about that kind of interpretation that you were talking about. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8775	Thank you. Break an hour. At 3:30, we move on. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats to continue the debate. 51 Dear Member Dušanka Majkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8777	Thank you, Chairman. Well, seriously, it would be that most MPs take their word for this important question, and I hope it doesn't behave the way the Constitutional Commission acted. Regardless of the business possibility requires that without the representatives of one nation, it would still be good for the chairman to say that, with respect for at least one people, we would postpone this session and wait for all of us to be present. So, the legitimacy of this decision, I think, when I say the decisions, I think that the Constitutional Commission's opinion was questioned because it was brought by representatives of the Bosniak political parties. So that's not a good sign. If one nation is too loud, the other nation has not been and the Bošnjak will decide whether or not a debate can be held at all. How serious is this thing done by the Constitutional Commission and the very skillful dispute of the constitutional basis in order to prevent the debate on principles. Because if it is a constitutional basis, or if it is disputed, then if we stick to the Rules of Procedure, then it could be said—e, people, there is no story of principles, the constitutional basis is disputed, given that it is like this, and that means that there is no discussion of what Bošnjak decide not to discuss. Dear colleagues of the Bosniak people, I don't think you should have allowed it yourself. You shouldn't have let yourself carry the burden that anything in this country can't be spoken of. You could have challenged the principles and perhaps I would have done if the Court and the Prosecutor's Office were working for the RS, or representatives of the RS, what they do for the Bosniaks, maybe I would have voted that way. But you shouldn't have made that decision yourself. You have shown that this country is the only one who is fit and can only take into account what corresponds to the representatives of the Bosniak people. And that's not a formula for co-existence. I remind you that at the beginning of the structured dialogue, the EU High Representative for Foreign Policy and Security Policy said: legitimate issues require serious analysis and serious response. Since the issue of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office is a serious issue that requires serious debate and a serious answer, then we had to put this issue on the agenda and talk about it. And maybe it's only good that for the first time, here I keep repeating to me in the third term, that this Parliament is talking about anything. It could have been one point that we could have discussed as well as all the other points to talk seriously so that we could start many other issues that were poorly resolved in BiH, but Bošnjak say: enough that it was the BiH institution even if it was dysfunctional, non-operational, poor, it is important that it survives no matter how much it costs. And we think that every institution should be talked about, that institutions that are significant should be helped to be even more significant, with aspects and finances and other things, and those that are inefficient do not need anyone or Bošnjak. I think it's a thing we shouldn't argue about at all, because anyone who wants to argue about it has no argument. So what the Constitutional Commission has done has been confirmed by what the second vice chairman has done. He publicly called on the public, the high representative, the American Embassy, whom he did not invite, all the public to help sanction those who dared to put the issue of debate on the subject of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office. Well, people, what kind of country do I live in if I can't discuss it as a Parliamentarian on any subject here? I'm sorry, then what am I doing here, what are we all doing here, if this House can only discuss topics that only Bošnjak can delegate and only with their consent, the rest of us have nothing to do here. Key question,...we could talk before the session was. Why do RS representatives ask these two questions to be on the agenda? Well, because you can't find a single member in the 52nd BiH Constitution talking about BiH's jurisdiction for the judiciary. The BiH Constitution, so Aneks iv.e. does not provide for any judicial institution other than the Constitutional Court. I ask all those who have a different way of showing me that member, who regulates this matter, where it is regulated by the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH. So, and secondly, there is no country... and there is no solution for judicial institutions solved by the Constitution. So, if they're not in the BiH Constitution, that means they're in the entity's jurisdiction. And so it was until the High Representative imposed the Law on the Court and the Prosecution Act, so it was. So that's the first reason we asked to talk about it. The second reason we sought was the control and influence of foreigners through the presence of international prosecutors, judges and administrative staff who made such a judicial system which allowed them to stay very long in BiH for the very large sums of money they have. And we see that, that's right, the people who have started cases for years leave them to be solved by someone else, witnesses die, and those who are against these to put it on Parliament, they are the ones who certainly protect them. And I would probably do that if my people were in such a privileged position as some here. The Court and the Prosecutor's Office are institutions that have shown maximum bias in their work so far and I want to say not only bias but also extreme non-professionalism. As an argument in that part, I will say that 90% of war crimes indictees are representatives of the Serb people. Secondly, Bošnjak appear as a statistical error, are mainly accused of the most minor crimes. Is that the fair court? In the only serious case against Bošnjak, it's so-called. The Bugojan column, the camp's guards have been charged, while wartime chief Dževad Mlaćo and wartime commander Selmo Cikotić have only been heard as witnesses, they are not, there is no command responsibility. There are no Bošnjak who are charged with command responsibility, no suspects for organized criminal acts. The BiH prosecutor's office is crossing over one participant in the crime of Muslim police war chief in Tesnja Šemsudin Mehmedović, today's SDA vice president and MPs in this house, whom mujahedin brought to the police station four severed Serb heads. I can't tell you what he did and what he said on that occasion. How did the Prosecution apply to organized crime? The part is reserved only for Srbin and Hrvat, but there is no Bošnjak in that story. Also, the retroactive application of the 2003 Criminal Law is inexplicable in legal practice. The BiH Criminal Law and the Criminal Procedure Act apply the BiH Court, while entities and the Brcko District apply the SFRJ Criminal Law. Is that possible? What's that nonsens? Such inadequate application of the law is an expression of extreme self-will, it is not recorded in any country. And there is no democratic regime that has such elements.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8778	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8779	I must say that this is to be talked about taking the case from the jurisdiction of entity courts and also about the ineffectiveness of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court of Justice of BiH where 13 judges in the War Crimes Department have made only 14 verdicts in a year, that the proceedings for war crimes continue for years and finally that the representatives of the RS have the right to their legitimate position, which is why we are asking that these, the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, as legal acts in the BiH judicial system, but also in European law, must be abolished. We ask that the judiciary be impartial, professional, efficient, responsible and as such affect the creation of 53 rule of law. If we have laws that only correspond to one people, there will be as many BiH as we find answers that will be appropriate for every nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8780	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Mirsad Đugum. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8781	I'd need one replica. Mrs. Majkić, the four MPs are representatives of the Bosniak people, and we have not discussed it so far, but neither are we in the Constitutional Commission, so it would not be media anything in this section in this sense as you presented it in your presentation. The Alliance for a Better Future is to improve the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary in BiH. It will certainly participate as much as it can, but we are also in respect of those other procedures and opinions of the Council of Ministers. And in the end, seven days ago, there was a hug and a kiss in the creation of a six, and a six should give their opinion on this, take it out, not now to carry the full burden of position and transfer it to opposition. That's why I need to react. I think the six who made the Council of Ministers must agree on this, too, to come up with one solution, because you are the parliamentary majority that can reject and accept all this. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8782	Thank you. Discussion, honourable MP Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8783	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I feel ashamed today. I am ashamed that we are afraid of an organization called "The Association of Parents of Children Killed in the War", I am ashamed that we are afraid of an association called "The Association of Campers", the shame of Mr. Jovičić, who was probably a camper, shamed that we are afraid of an association called "The Association of Peace". Our safety is not threatened by it, but our safety is threatened by those who killed children, those who drove Mr. Jovičić to the camp – not responding. I totally agree with all those people that the judiciary didn't carry out its mission. But I return to some of the words that we have said here, Mrs. Majkić, quoting Mrs. Ešdaun, says, "For a serious story, we must also have serious processes." And then Mr. Kalabić says, "Yes, okay, we may have referred to the procedure a little over-requisitely this bill... on the termination of the law on the BiH Prosecutor's Office, or the Law on the Court of Justice." And is that a serious story then? Mr. Bosić, also brilliantly, marking the problems present in the judiciary, says: well, the judiciary needs to be reformed. And now we're talking about something that Bošnjak are challenging someone. The Bošnjak will not challenge, they will challenge this assembly or they will not challenge it. I think it's much smarter to have your energy, and because of the ones we represent, because of the seriousness of all of us individually, we're talking about judicial reform, so let's say it's going to happen or not. In the SDP, we believe that it is not the exclusive right of entities to deal with the judiciary, but we also believe that BiH has the right to deal with the judiciary. And in all these things that 54 can read to you now, which are fifteen or sixteen pages, I can tell you that we are actually in favour of full judicial reform in which they Jovičić definitely be responsible for what we have done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8784	My colleague Kalabić doesn't have the right to reply. This is the third. I would warn all my colleagues and colleagues that apparently this opinion, according to my knowledge, may come next time to the Assembly and to be careful not to say everything for today, we can also tell each other what we have. Dear colleague Milica Marković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8785	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, as you say, there will be still opportunities for us to discuss these proposed laws, and I will try in my discussion to focus only on the Commission's opinion that we have received and which, unfortunately, is what it is. Not unfortunately because it is negative and because the bill's proposals were rejected in the opinion, but for the reasons most mentioned by my colleague Dušanka Majkić, so I would not repeat them, so you heard them all who were present in the hall. For the reason that the question arises whether we are in a situation that we have really started voting again in this country, and we know which way BiH went when the vote was re-voted in November of '90. the year as to whether BiH will stay in Yugoslavia or not, well, when one constitutional people in that country was revoted, then we all saw what happened in BiH. I'm just saying reminders because it's part of this country's history that we all know, and we all shouldn't just be so easy for many reasons to ignore these facts about what reality looks like in this country, when we get into a situation where someone starts to vote and try to put it in some inferior position, regardless of what an important and well-founded position is to him under the Constitution. This report today, which we have and all the discussions that have so far been best, shows why the SNSD and the SDS are asking us to challenge the existence of the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office, and why someone else is defending these judicial institutions and wants them to stay at all costs and not touch in any part of it, or even in part to talk as some today said about reforming the justice system in BiH. And you don't want that either, but just turn down these bill proposals, put an end to it, and of course move on as it is. Everyone here knows the fact and reality that in the territory of the RS tomorrow if there were a referendum question whether you were to exist or to abolish the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office, I guarantee you that more than 90% of the population in the RS would be to be abolished. And the fact that SNSD and SDS have submitted such an initiative and proposed such bill proposals is not because here as many of us as there are in the clubs of these two parties and what our parties consider it, but because it is such a huge opinion of the public opinion in RS that these two judicial institutions have actually been established and exist, and have been established as they are, therefore, without constitutional foundation, by force of the High Representative and, of course, we have today that these two institutions have become completely political and biased. Political in the sense that they are conducting a policy here served by the Federation, from the Federation political parties, and that is why I am surprised today by the views of some political parties that are not Bosniak and who are disputed, in some ways, not entirely for that story to open up one story about the Court and the Prosecutor's Office and to see really all the sides of these institutions, as we are asking. 55 We believe that these two institutions have been fully conducted and established to work against one constituent nation, i.e. against and to judge a constituent people, which is for Srbin. That this is how the facts and judgments of the Court say that Srbin have been ruled, in summing everything together, for over 1,000 years in prison, while to the Bosniak people, Bosniak members, convicts who are from the Bosniak people, about 100 and a few years all in all when you add up the verdicts. The answer to the parliamentary question that I received today also says where all convicted persons who have been convicted by law are given by name and last name, this response by the Court of Justice says that from 2005 to the end of 2011, out of 85 convicted, rightfully convicted, so of 85, there are only 12 Bošnjak, the most left are members of the Serb people. And of course, it is clear now why the Federation political parties are pushing for this court to remain and survive. But I'm gonna go back to the beginning of what I started. So, you must know, and you must bear in mind that she has a folk who says, "You can do whatever you want, but you won't do it as long as you want." So everything has its beginning and its end. You can now go to some kind of coercion, to revote, to this, to say it will be because we want it to, but it won't last that long. You must bear in mind that it may happen on the day that the RS in a legitimate way will make decisions and how it will challenge the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office in the territory of the RS. You must also know, you also have that in the option and among all the options that can happen because of this kind of relationship and because of the treatment that the Court and the Prosecutor's Office have been directed to work for only one people, to work for one political option and to do as it is handled and as it is told. If the Court and the Prosecutor's Office were on trial, meaning on the task of justice and justice, then there would be no irony today for us in the middle of Parliament to be taught by Šemsudin Mehmedović about what genocide is and who should respect genocide, who should recognize it and not challenge it, and who does not, the man who did such things in Tešnja. That when you hear witnesses and people who have suffered that torture, I can't because their statements and their survival are so terrible and brutal, I can't repeat what those witnesses and those victims have said. And we have irony today, rather than the Prosecutor's Office and the Court prosecuted a man who was directly the perpetrator of such acts in one part of BiH, he is giving us a lesson here in Parliament today what is genocide and what is crime and who is to whom he has done what. If this were the Prosecutor's Office and it was doing its job, that case would have been prosecuted long ago and we would have an epilogue that would satisfy justice and justice in this country. But we do not, unfortunately, have for many reasons, well, among other things, because of the introduction and activation of foreigners who share justice to BiH citizens. And we can say now they've ruled, done it one way or another, but what's for the Serbian people, the two most dramatic examples of war crimes committed towards the majority, according to the Serb people and the Serb people in those cases that were majority -- that's tuzlanski Cola and Volovoljačka Street, where foreigners simply hold it for a while, then throw it away and say goodbye, we're going to our homes now, and you see what you're going to do with it. As long as we approach such difficult and large and serious issues as the issue of the Court of Justice and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, we will have a situation to move further and further away from each other, because after this story by Šemsudin Mehmedović, which we heard today in Parliament, it is difficult to say SNSD and the U.S.A. can draw closer to finding some solutions so that this Court and the Prosecutor's Office can look more functional, better and more advanced. It's a difficult situation for this to happen, but, of course, life goes on and on and on as representatives of the people who are sitting here and we do not have to worry about a situation, but it's our job to look for better and better solutions than those we have. But SNSD has also sought and offered better and better and more efficient solutions in other situations, so, of course, the wonders, the entity's vote, which constantly stumbles with the MPs from the RS, the entity vote rejects it, so nothing after that. So to conclude and say that this story about the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH will certainly not end today at the Opinion delivered by the Constitutional Commission. And as long as the RS has the capacity in its representatives who are participating and participating here, we will seek in various legitimate and democratic ways and methods how we will fight this kind of treatment and action of these judicial institutions and for the reasons that they are naturally paid and the funds for their salaries are also collected from taxpayers from the RS. So these taxpayers from the RS are paying these judges and prosecutors, and we can't remain indifferent to that fact. But of course, before and before that, both those salaries and those taxpayers, we have a duty and a debt to the victims who fell from the Serb people in the past war and to the families of those victims, to children who have lost their fathers, families who have permanently and long-term lost their foster parents and those who carry the family. So, we have a commitment to these people from the RS, and you, of course, by this approach and by this method of dispute and by looking for a way not to solve anything and not to do anything, no step forward, you're just going to help BiH, and surely you won't, in this way you won't help it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8786	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8787	Here, as time goes by, it looks like we're slowly taking over both the prosecution and the court, slowly. So, first of all, it's not true this finding that the debate is prevented. So, the debate, as far as I can tell, is going on for hours, everyone talks for 10 minutes. So we don't have any problems, of course, with one correct understanding of the chairman who knows perfectly about the Rules of Procedure what happens when it comes to thinking negatively. Here, we got a chance, we all said, so we can't claim that the debate was disabled. As for our relationship with the Court and the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, we absolutely believe that it is as one of the postulates, alphabets, alphabets, judicial, executive and legislative authorities, that it is something that marks every state, and BiH is a state, it is a bit complicated, it is decentralised, but there is no reason why it does not have those three pillars that make the state. We do not dispute and stick to those who do not have an institution, an individual, a topic that should not be discussed in this House. But let me remind you, every year we have a report on the work of the Court, we have a report on the work of the Prosecutor's Office, we have a report on the work of the High Court and the Prosecutor's Council, and I haven't noticed anything, nor do I remember that we used this opportunity to open up all these issues when it comes to quality of work, urgency, transparency, efficiency and what these two institutions are doing to gain the trust and conviction of citizens to work in favor of everyone. I don't want to waste a lot of time because some people have really said what I think, too. I join Mr. Mešić's opinion when he said that we are an incorrect relationship, 57 unverified relationship with these people, who have gathered here, made themselves, and you will see in this report, it's a little bit and degutantly, they've been carried out, they're not people who are going to attack someone. They simply express their opinions, their opinions. I assure you all this is not about the Bosniak Court and the D.A.'s office. When a man listens to this discussion, he would get the impression that it's absolutely and explicitly about the court, some special court that Bošnjak have and some prosecution, and then they use those mechanisms against others, etc. I absolutely don't believe it. I can accept the impunity, intransparency, slowness etc., and perhaps incompetence in these institutions, but that it is the institution of one nation, absolutely not, and neither do we from the Party for BiH, such institutions need and I believe the rest. We, when it comes to what Mr. Đugum was talking about, of course, agreeing in this part where Niko spoke, the other day when we talked about the programme, the confirmation, etc., mentioned this fact that we have an absurd situation, that we have full consent today, so we had the full agreement on the establishment of the Council of Ministers, and at the same time we had an open question that was probably left for some better time for the partners to solve them. My party, I have to take this opportunity to say: for years, we have stood up for the institutions of the state, talked about the court once, the court of the second, the Supreme Court, the state property, the institutions and so on, and we were eventually declared to be radical, to bring confusion, unrest, etc. But here, there's no party on stage in the capacity she was in, you see that things happen the way they did. So we weren't the problem. We will remain in the capacity that we have to support the existence of the BiH Court and the Prosecutor's Office, supporting, and here's some structural dialogue going on, as far as I know, let's call these people to get information. We supported the request by Aleksandra Pandurević that we get here information about what is going on with this reform, what is happening with the realisation of the strategies that have been adopted here in this country and we are not running away from that kind of debate. And finally, what bothers me terribly, if something is not there -- there will be no BiH. BiH has been around for hundreds of years and will be with us and without us. So, however we make decisions here, laws, regulations, etc., BiH as a concept, as a state, it will be with us and without us. That's it, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8788	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8789	Dear Chairman, first of all, I'm going to say thank you to Mr. Mešić as a man. 44 months of abuse and staying alive is not a success, for I have begged Bog a million times to kill me, not to suffer suffering. I've always sought, as a man, a balance in the amount of justice, not in the amount of crime. So I'm here in '88. year, when the prosecutor Marinko Jurčević was sitting in the front row, he proposed, and the House of Representatives supported the creation of a five-year strategy to resolve this war past if possible and move forward. But there is something that is very important, more important than us MPs and our earthly lives, and that is a lasting vow, we must, if we can't already, be people, and therefore once again thank you, dear friend. 58 So I didn’t get up here to cause anyone’s emotions, but to see a man my age crying, I would be the happiest man to never see any child on television to cry, anywhere on a globe, not any grown man. But, dear colleagues, you have to understand that this Parliament has not become our coming and this mandate, is not the Constitution any of us created, and all of it, not to repeat what my colleagues have said, whether in the Dayton Accords of these institutions or not, we know from life, we cannot speak anything like allegedly against the judicial system, they are independent. We're not allowed against the media, and they're laughing at us, we're not allowed against the NGO sector, because they're allowed to say and compare. Well, it's a depression because of these exactly the kind of things that get complicated. Parliament passed 16% of the law, and no one says what was against the 500 laws in the procedure... we could adopt, but I'm going back to this main topic. So, not to repeat what I was saying a long time ago, I was lucky to move into this building in the '80s. the same lights were, same bulbs, much more joy, understanding, moods, much more tolerance, and I don't know why colleagues from any party, from any nation, bother anyone to discuss everything. So when I remember what we discussed, on the agenda one point, we begin to reproduce rainworms, we end up on, I don't know, amoebas and where we haven't already arrived, in the North Pole. So here we have concrete two legal projects. What was the problem with being in a regular, tolerated, human, democratic, if you will, and I repeat, collegiate atmosphere discussing it. It's also a depression. Some of our guys were kissing here six days ago. Guys, these aren't coalitions made out of love, they're partner relationships out of necessity for this country to move forward, because it's already been in stalemate. But when it comes to war crimes, people, until we solve it, we're gonna have a hard time getting rid of it, being representatives of us, of some of our constituent people and others, or someone instead of us, somebody's gonna remember to pull this issue out. And today, it's being debated in some countries about 1914, '16, '41, '45. And I don't know any more years. So we have time when we don't understand each other and when we think about each other, maybe even in ourselves, what we wouldn't want to tell them in the eyes. Let's go here and tell the public what we're interested in. And I'll tell you what's of interest. The prosecution and the BiH Court of Justice's proceedings against the Serb people are disastrous. They've turned into a small Hague tribunal. I was a witness in The Hague when Karlo Ponte Ponte took out charges against Bosniak leaders and had to sign. I didn't even get to Vienna. It's not gonna happen. I couldn't force her to sign it, nor did I go there to do it, nor am I here in Parliament to accuse my friend, friend, this fellow, because if I have no evidence, but the fact is that the public in the RS, no one knows the percentage, whatever number you say, everyone is unhappy. Srbin are bitter about the prosecution and the court because they are unilateral. He won't sign it. The convention, and I don't know what it's called, the co-operation of two prosecutors with Serbia, and in Sarajevo, you witnessed some, salves of applause at any time when the zvornički group was condemned in Belgrade. It was true, I was here in town. BiH's fate will not solve an Anđelina Đol movie, however it is made. He won't. The fate of BiH will be resolved by three constituent nations. I'm not threatening anyone, God Bog who I am. But I am telling you as people, this parliament will never adopt any decision without the consent of the Serb people and the RS. So you Srbin are looking for Madagaskar, invent them, bring them from any party, without legitimate representatives of the Serb people from the RS there is no decision, as I respect the legitimate representatives of the Bosniak and Croatian peoples. Because it's the Constitution of this country, three constituent nations. And of course, I respect the others. So there are countless contradictions here and now one of our initiatives, which is quite legitimate, is not in line with the Constitution. And it is in accordance with the Constitution that Ešdaun gives the order to come to NATO and kill those innocent priests who have nothing to do with the hiding of war criminals. There's a 100% roll-in today. Who will make amends for them? What will he make up for them? Who's gonna make it up to me for barely walking? But 59 isn't important, I'm not important, but who's going to make up for what's going to be processed in my camp, I'm not going to open that case, says 24 just killed. And does anyone make sure 120 people died from the terrible abuse and torture afterwards? What are they? Statistical number or no number, or any people? They're nowhere to be found. And the Hrvat were. Not now that I'm bringing this in just because I was a witness in that same camp, and they're being abused. I have to defend those people, too. For me, the camper is sacred, and that Sulejman Tihić, my friend, who was in the camp, and he is sacred to me, never mind whose people he belongs to. And that's why I've been here a few times really human thanks, it's not his fault, he didn't put me in jail, he didn't even know who I was or who I was, ever. But those who are guilty of crimes committed against my people should once respond. But you will always hear from the D.A., it's not a mockery, don't, don't Bog, it's a formulation, I know that language as well as you – the investigation is ongoing. How much longer in progress? What my grandmother said "kiss his sun." This isn't anger, this is mercy for the sun to warm us up, to move forward. But we can't go this way when we're being challenged here. Guys, don't argue with us that we have an initiative, although we are aware when the initiative is launched that you will vote 'against'. Vote as you will, we can't influence you, but let us state the opinion of the sad Spruce people and the victims who are not bitter at this Court, but to ask themselves, and to come as these women have come today, there would be 500 of them here. But who's going to come here when they're afraid to move away from Zenica here. That's what you take care of. Whether it's imaginary, whether it's conscious or unconscious, but I'm telling you as a man who's been born here for 30 miles, who moved into this building here, when I feel uncomfortable, not that I'm scared, I've never been scared, there's no more fear with me,...unfortunately, that I won't take my colleague Danijela, Nermina, I don't know, Emina, Mešić, anyone, that I don't pick up, by the hand and say, "Come with me, what's going to be to you?" But there is no such protection for Srbin here, and for that colleague, Aleksandra Pandurević, who is now being torn apart by the media, except that a colleague has expressed her legitimate position. Do I have the right to say anything as an MP? Do I have the right to answer anywhere without being immediately waiting in Sarajevo for 100 of them and saying 'this Chetnik needs to be strangled'? So give me a choke once, if you'll solve this country's problem and solve all the problems. As friends, please allow us to discuss everything, we may not agree, but do not prevent Serbian legitimate demands to discuss everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8790	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Petar Kunić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8791	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say a few words, too. I'm going to try to avoid ad person, so I'm not talking about people, talk about general things, not give up some impulse for harsher confrontations. We must admit that the courts, or the prosecution, of the BiH judiciary did not carry out their mission, did not execute. He's not doing a good job and it's almost inevitable that it comes to the agenda and we're discussing it very seriously. That's a serious question, that's one state function. Without it, the state can't function and of course we find the best solution for our opportunities. 60 The present judiciary was constructed by foreigners, so it wasn't us. In my time, I remember being an MP in this House when I once told a Šveđanin (I don't know what it's called, I forgot) that the Law on the High Court and Prosecutorial Council is not applicable to our opportunities and that it's an enclave in the system, that it doesn't suit anyone. And he said, "Well, you can do it by budget." Well, it can't be that we're going to cut his funding through the budget, so we don't have to finance it. So there are no mechanisms to control that body, and that's one of the essential issues. When we discussed the matter, I specifically emphasized it. I don't know how many people have understood me without any extreme, therefore, evil intentions. So, to improve the situation, and this can mostly improve the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council. Where? By changing personnel in courts. That's a burning question. The existing shots in the courts are linked to politics. It's not just here, it's in all of BiH. That's what I have to say. So, both at the level of joint institutions and in entities. And that's basic, so. I'll say this too: Without an effective public administration, without an independent judiciary, we won't get Europe. Some of them got it in our neighborhood. I know the judiciary very well, they got it, but these are special circumstances why they got it, we're not gonna get it. Therefore, we will have to put this on the agenda and talk seriously about these issues. Why are citizens in the RS dissatisfied, especially with the courts and the BiH Prosecutor's Office? They have a reason. There are a lot of exact facts here, where you simply have to suspect. It's such numbers that you have to suspect. I am personally aware of the fact that the postpartum period was such that perhaps the unfair distribution of guilt by the nations was unfair. But it was done by strangers, they created such an atmosphere. And of course, in time we'll have to leave that atmosphere. I'm glad no one here today in the discussion said criminals shouldn't answer. So until the last one has to fit, even if it's 30 years from now, they have to be found and answered. Enough slaughter and killing in the Balkans! So are we the poorest peoples in this world? And that is why it is required that the courts, or prosecutors, at BiH level, work really impartially. Knowing some people in courts, it's almost impossible to expect. Gentlemen, we need to think about it and change people like that, because we won't have an independent judiciary, we won't have an independent prosecutor's office and courts. It's a primate, it's a primary question to approach, if we want to live as normal as the whole normal world, especially if we want European integration. Look, when a man looks at that Tuzlane column, when he looks at those videos from Voluntary, he gets emotional. A man comes to some stage of frustration. Why wasn't anyone responsible for those crimes we all saw? So... that situation, when you look at it, it's impossible that no one answered. Gentlemen, that's impossible. That's what we all saw. That's the x times shown. Is there a priority, except, you know, some other things that have been done, does it have a priority to pursue criminals from the priorities of the Voluntary and Tuzla Colony? No, there's no second priority at the moment. And it's gonna have to end. It's gonna have to end. The cover-up of those who organized it and the protection, so the veil must be removed from it and said who was behind those crimes. Why was that done on innocent people? Well, that's what we saw. It's impossible to avoid. And the sooner that happens, the better, the better for us all. And now I'd like to say something about a constitutional basis. I said this, not seriously, but by throwing it at the Commission, and today someone reiterated that if there is a legal basis for the adoption of the Law on the Court of Justice of BiH, there is also a legal basis for abolishing it. But that's me, I just didn't think much about it. In fact, what about the courts? Why are they arguing? The question immediately arises, why do the courts dispute? So do they have legitimacy? Do they have material and formal legality, what...? Who created the content of these laws? He created a high representative and his office. Has the procedure passed this law of this Parliament, the constitutional commission and all these shares, 61 where the law should be passed? It's not. No formal legitimacy, no material legitimacy, no formal legality. You know that when an individual act is adopted it must have a certain form and must be adopted in accordance with the legal rules. Also, the legislative procedure has its own line, its own way of passing. She's not respected. It brought a high representative, either it was Ešdaun or it was Petrič, simply, imposed threatening, by force, etc. And I'm the first maybe in this BiH who said that the High Representative has no right to pass laws. I didn't say that, that's what I told Ešdaun in this parliament, where he didn't answer me, he skipped, of course, a wise politician, didn't want to engage in these discussions, but simply skipped it. What I meant at that point for him because I told him he couldn't pass laws, that there was no legal basis in any annex, not in the Constitution, not in the so-called. The Berlin Convention, Bosnia and Herzegovina, I'm sorry, Bosnia and Herzegovina. It says nice, read people, read something, read it, and you'll see.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8792	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8793	...the High Representative, just to finish this, the High Representative can make decisions of temporary character that he is obliged to deliver to the Bureau and to the Council of Ministers to verify. So if he had the right to pass laws, then it would be said that he was obliged to deliver to the Parliamentary Assembly that the Parliamentary Assembly would verify it. But he had no right to make laws. So please, let's just compare this. Austria, when BiH ruled, ruled under the law, there was a Law on BiH's Governance, passed in 1880, which was approved by the ugarski and Vienna parliament. And in the last century, in the end of the last century, would a man bring such discretion that he passed laws? So are we the crazy people to think he can do it? He can't, but he's been committing violence, because that's what the Implementation Council has given him. So it's the rule of power. Therefore, if the legality and legitimacy of these laws are challenged, then this is the basis very, very...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8794	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8795	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. Here, I'll take a few words, though a lot's already been said. We here today, biologists would say, we're talking about cell division, right? Do we have the right to do that? It's just a question. Someone has already said that, I will do it again, because it is very important that we all remember what the pillars of statehood are, including the states of BiH, from legislation, executive authorities and the judiciary. We can't end it in any way like this. I personally, too, and I think anyone who feels BiH as his country will never allow one such vital authority of the state to be abolished. We've been listening to a lot of things here today, a lot of reasons, both on the one hand and on the other, but here I've noticed that there are some substitutes in these stories. At least I am aware of this many years of working in Parliament that nothing without compromise can be brought here. And that's what Mr. Lozančić was talking about best. So we haven't done anything yet and it wasn't a compromise before. Sixteen months we've been waiting for the Council of Ministers. Which one of us, not to mention the MPs, the political 62 parties didn't say: it's the mandater and he and all of us here voted for these people. Ministers are when he tells us you, and we all vote for those people. No, we went for the opinion, we waited for an opinion. On the other hand, there is the impression today that there will be a revote here because there is no compromise, because we have not received opinions, as we have also received for the Council of Ministers and for the List Act, on the ID card, perhaps even a little bit on residence, on state property. So we got opinions and we voted here. So, a previous compromise. I mean, there's no voting in this House. Maybe if I suggested the Council of Ministers here, everyone in the SDA would vote for him, and you would vote me over, the rest of you. Here, I say everyone else, I don't want to share Srbin, Hrvat, Bošnjak, through political parties, etc. So, we here today have something that's already been condemned to vote, not to say, to fail. And now we're building thesis here, getting up, talking, forgetting what preceded it. I think this is a finger push around the BiH state, in no case the D.A.'s office, as defined, if we want it to be independent as the BiH state's institution, with two acts let's just cut it off here. Here, I'm now asking all these proposings and all the representatives of the RS: If we didn't have an entity, would the judiciary and the prosecution be lifted, would they lift it? Then where would they transfer jurisdiction? To the municipalities, he'd probably go to the municipalities. Well, then there's the question of why we're doing it. Is this about a war crime? Is it because we're not satisfied with how it works? Is it that we forgot that both Bošnjak and Hrvat are in the process, as individuals, and convicted. Now, perhaps the extent of the crime doesn't match the results of the judiciary. And here, I think maybe that's not the main reason why we're doing this today. Here, I do not allow you to leave me the Federation judiciary so that politics can be managed, so that these thieves and criminals who are now walking around BiH and the Federation are treated differently. Why are you letting yourself do this? Maybe that's the point of what we're talking about here today. And the control of the judiciary, here's what Mr. Belkić said earlier, we had here a report of both the judiciary and the prosecution. Oh, those agenda points are over in a minute or a few minutes. We didn't discuss them at all, we didn't say if it was the quality of the court staff sitting there making decisions, etc. Can we talk about this without touching the essence? Not to touch the BiH state institution and form the Supreme Court and then be the control of it all, that it be control? Not that we're meeting as individuals. That's why I'd ask, in a way, if this were to stop today. Yes, if we need to talk about this, that, like all other difficult problems, we give it to our political representatives and let them talk about it. And, once they agree or don't, let us know, and we'll come here like last Friday, raise your hand and finish the job. So that we don't introduce ourselves here into some story, argument, argument, tell the truth about Šemso, this, that, and in such a way, make ourselves an unhealthy atmosphere that tomorrow won't give us a result of something more vital, which is more important, which is on the European path, which is going to push this BiH forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8796	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8797	Thank you, Chairman. I report very rarely, but here I have the need to as head of the SDA Club in this House, first of all, welcome you and distinguished colleagues and colleagues and say that a man on my left, 63 Mr. Šemsudin Mehmedović, is an honorable man, a patriot of this country, a distinguished, prominent member of the SDA Party, its vice president and certainly a humanitarian and a man who is not a nationalist, nor any extremist, not Bog's criminal. Because the main platform of the SDA party is that crime has neither faith nor nation. That is why I deeply believe that neither The Hague court nor the Court of BiH judges Srbin or Hrvat or Bošnjak, but judges criminals. And that's why I wouldn't be here today saying how many cases and what nations are being tried for. But I would say that neither we are satisfied with the effect nor with the work, nor with the effects, but it is the subject of a broader and more serious design that we unfortunately do not have here today. We're conducting dialogue and debate today about how it was in these jokes 20 years ago, when they threatened these speakers that one nation would disappear, so we got what we got. Today we are investigating the High Representative and his powers as if it were a democratic will and that he has come in a democratic way here. No, ladies and gentlemen. He came here just because we haven't had a deal in the past 20 years, or before that. Sometimes in this country people are tried by the same Court and the Prosecutor's Office for Verbal Delicate, for freedom of speech. I here today responsibly claim that this is a free country on every inch of its territory. Both in Banja Luka and Zvornik, and in Sarajevo and that I can move freely and speak freely everywhere. So, to bring the Court and the crimes to national, religiously, I don't think it makes any sense, that we should turn today to the things that bring us together, and generations after us and metrics will judge what happened here. We obviously do not have the strength yet, although this discussion today must have provoked recent dialogues in Belgrade, and in the projection of certain films, etc. We must live together, not in this term, not in this century, but in thousands of years as we have lived so far. So, BiH is unquestionable, its institutions have existed or existed, and it will exist, and whether there is justice and justice in this country and in general in the world, it should be judged by others and after us. In this world, in my opinion, there is no justice nor will it be when it is. Not the Srbin people who committed crimes, the criminals unfortunately committed and thought they were committing crimes in the name of Srbin, certain Bošnjak committed crimes and thought they were committed in the name of the Bošnjak, certain Hrvat committed crimes, or members of the Croatian people committed crimes, thinking they were doing good to their people. None of the criminals did it in the name of the welfare of their people, he did it to the harm of all the peoples. And so I ask you that here we do not take that role today and weigh and bring the courts who did what crimes, and the time that is before us will indeed show and the metric will tell what happened in BiH. Because even today, we have leaders, let's say, specifically the President of the Republic of Slovenia, who in his statements denies certain things. The Hague court said in its ruling that genocide occurred in Srebrenica. We deny it today. I deeply sympathise with Slavuj colleague, I sympathise with every victim, because I am after these spring events in the '90s. and the decisions made, unfortunately and in this building, suffered the horrors of this city. But let this free country, that in free communication, of course everyone has the right to submit any initiative, but don't deny everyone the right to say what they think and the right to think differently. I think BiH is much more free today than it was 10 years ago, especially 20 years ago, and I am convinced that BiH will be much more free for all its citizens and peoples in the next 10 years and these institutions, which we are talking about today, will be safer and more just and efficient than they are today.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8798	Thank you. Replica, Honorary Member Dušanka Majkić. Here you go. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8799	Well, I'm glad this neighborhood is working quite calmly from the president of the SDA Club. But I really wish you had set a concrete example of how this possibility of dialogue and this desire for dialogue is shown. As an example, you could say that your club will reconsider this topic, that we will open this issue and discuss it as long as it takes. So until the last MP here feels the same as you said you were, we need to talk about it. And I'll take your initiative well-intentioned, if she goes to that point. If it only goes to the end of this session, when we'll forget everything and let the Court and the D.A. work the same way they did, then you don't have an ally in us. And only in support of this, the total Court and the Prosecutor's Office, the total collection of judicial and unjust prison sentences for all members of the people in BiH, is 1.520 years, of which Srbin are 1,200, Hrvat 164, Bošnjak 161. If he says anything more, here's the information I said.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8800	Thank you. Discussion, Reverend Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8801	Here, and I'll say hello. I think it's...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8802	Wait a minute, please, another one of the promoters, at the beginning of one, and here's one at the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8803	I think there's a lot that's been said in today's discussion here and what's good to talk about, we're discussing. We have opinions that are one of these, one of these. But what is very important to me, or us, is that today we discuss and discuss the proposals of the law, what we discussed and the facts that they write in the reasons for the bill, which is totally legal and legitimate, which is one hand showing all the maturity in discussions and in certain discussions we treat with the findings. And I think that's one breakthrough. So if it wasn't for this proposal, we wouldn't even be discussing it. Today, in my opinion, we are more mature in another day and I don't think this is in any way a negative story here today in Parliament. From today's discussions, what I particularly enjoyed, we heard that many are not satisfied with the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office, which they themselves admit, and I don't want to say who said it all, but it comes from all three constituent peoples, which means they're not satisfied with the work of the Court and the Prosecutor's Office either. And I think that today's discussion has shown one maturity for parliamentarians that we need to talk about everything in BiH. I don't want to deal with marketing, so some and go back in time, and we all have a lot to say, it's going to go through today, but what's going to be remembered is that this law is going to pass or be rejected, and it's certainly going to be the most remembered for what we've discussed about it, because it's our right. 65 Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8804	Here I was wrong, honourable Ambassador Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8805	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleagues and colleagues, the bill of law, or the opinion of the Committee, is not finally and is not binding on anyone, so the debate has just opened up in that direction. And from that debate, we heard a lot about the work of the Prosecutor's Office and the Court. I've been under investigation for two years in the D.A.'s office and three years in the Court of Justice, which is under discussion. However, the basic postulate of democracy is a legislative, executive and judicial authority, and how it will be organised depends on us here. If there will be a Court, whether it will be, in what way it will be, it depends on the agreement. Obviously, we don't have a deal, but that's why we have this high representative, or, as I know, the dictator, so who can iron it all up and end it, and most likely, he'll end it. But what it means for the citizens who chose us to do something for them here. Which one of my best men, Dragan, from Mostar, says, 'You should make an association of the squanders', says, 'the basic task and the requirement will be to leak us all away, because it looks like it's a lot better for those who are squandered, they go out to work, now they come in with a good car, good pay, we're here, we're out of business, we're out of pay, nothing'. That's one side of the truth, so told in a joke, easier said, but the truth is sure which is painful. It's much harder for citizens here, for those who are out of work, who are working, and one of our main tasks is that. And what bothers me and I can't say pain, but yes, so there was a congregation majority formed, and I'm sorry that this is kind of a finger around that congregation majority and that we're not discussing concrete things. I hope we change that and go the other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8806	Thank you. Dear colleague Emir Kabili, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8807	Dear President, honourable MPs, I didn't mean to answer because we're only talking about ugly things, terrible ugly things, counting our victims, not talking about positive things. I'm going to tell you today a few positive things, that every war, no matter how severe, no matter how negative, does not generate only evil, death, suffering. My father and my family are from Trebinj, and we're all from Trebinj. I, when my father graduated from school in Belgrade as a doctor, passed by decree to Tuzlo, but our roots in Trebinj were stronger then than ever. I'm a man who has the privilege and the privilege of knowing a man you may not know, his name is raditi Aleksić. Rade Aleksić, you've heard of him by accident, it's the father of a boy who, in my opinion, is planetaryly known and... A Srbin, his name is Srđo Aleksić. I had a chance to watch a few documentary films about this man and I realized how small we are. Last night I watched this movie again at the hotel, where the size, strength of the mind, tolerance and humanity that binds this Bosnia and makes Bosnia Bosnia is Mr. Aleksić, the man who was killed by people just because he wanted to help another man, a man who wasn't angry with the judiciary because those four or three people got a total sentence of six years for the worst crime against humanity. A man who showed by his strength, strength, arguments that humans are, in principle, human. I therefore ask you to try, although it may be very difficult (and I understand the frustrations of colleagues from the RS, I understand), but to try to extract the planetary good things. The planetary good thing in BiH is Srđo Aleksić. I'd be proud to have my street in Tuzla bearing his name. It's not a floscule, because I know his father, I know his family, and I know how many they did and what they did during the war. So I'm asking you to try, although I'm not very good at it, to try to distance our tendency to politicize from, I'd say, billiards, that's the Bosnian word, Bosniaks, I don't know either, billiards of BiH, and that's srđe's diverse Aleksić, we accept as something that should hold this country. Believe me, Srđo Aleksić's father said, "My son has entered the song." Hercegovina is very strange and it enters legend and song slowly. What we're talking about will be the past very soon, believe me. I'm absolutely for compromise, I'm absolutely gonna talk about everything, why don't we talk about it. It's not really the subject of this discussion here, but don't count red blood cells, life is something different, real life in which we live is much different than what we do here, believe me. When we get out of these rooms, we communicate completely differently, we communicate as normal people, we help each other. And here we're showing another face. Because of those planetary famous people who make this Bosnia Bosnia and Herzegovina and who are far more important than all the films we talk about and make, those silent stories that occurred during the war, I'm asking you to try and find some kind of compromise. When I say compromise, do not compromise on the damage of one, or another, or third people, compromise that this Parliament, however intolerant we think, is that this Parliament is very tolerated. This BiH Parliament, I say, is more responsible than the Montenegrin Parliament, is much more tolerated than the Serbian Parliament, is much more tolerated than the Croatian Parliament. We don't scream here, we don't swear, we don't hit each other, but we have problems like that, and believe that there are positive stories. I would therefore ask you, after this long discussion, to try to produce some positive story that will basically preserve this country. We'll pass, we're from today to tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8808	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Adnan Bašić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8809	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unlike my esteemed colleague, Jovičić, I may be sad, but unfortunately, I can't shed tears, I have nothing. I'd have to be emotional, but look how long it took me to get over myself and get up without being emotional. But since it's part of my personality that you've all known very well since the beginning of how we've been hanging out as colleagues, dear colleagues, so I'm going to speak now, from the soul, no paper, no reading, no reminders. There's only 67 full of them, and that's May 7th I'll take, if Bog let me live, 68 and I'm a witness to two wars. May 7th, '45. The year I was born, I was an orphan, my father was killed, he died in March of '45, he didn't wait to see me. And part of that most beautiful life a man spends, childhood, I spent in one of the thousands of orphan war homes in then-ex Yugoslavia. Many of us knew neither who they were, nor what they were, nor what they were called. The partisan units they found under the bloody corpses of their mothers gave them arbitrary names. That's what they did. Isn't that a 67 crime? It is past these times, this cruel and heavy war came, when, as once a proud JNA soldier in the early '60s, together with his friends, I must have sang from the heart something you almost as young as me don't know, honestly and from the heart, 'Those comrades, are you sorry.' We were friends, we loved each other, we appreciated each other, as the poet said,'some of us made others to the grave', believe me, that's how it was. And I never thought in my sleep I'd have to have a soldier who's as normal as any other country or occupation or regulatory status during a certain period of life as a soldier, honor, something nice, but when you become a warrior, it loses every attraction. The result of all that we, who have lived here, have experienced in different ways, is today's debate. Niko one can, and damned be, who forgets and punishes one crime, one criminal, but you can't get away with it all the time, I listen carefully, to some political districts howling everything that's the basis of all this that we're discussing today. Here we are looking for the removal of one of the three pillars that hold each state. I'm an older man, and I still remember the peasant tripods in the carrot villages where I went with my daj, who was a doctor then, there were few doctors, so he was one of the favorite guests when he came into the house. You can sit on a tripod without one leg, but you can't sit, that's the point. What has been proposed here today and come to our parliamentary benches is required to abolish that third pillar of a state. Directly free of masks, without anything, it is required that the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office be abolished. What discussions about changes, about additions, about the Court's dissatisfaction, improvement, this, this, what, we already have this and this process that is going on right at the request of the Serbian people, and no one has mentioned it here today. It's a process that lasts. Why don't we stick with him? No, it seems that someone, some leader, I'm a soldier, I will now say militaryly, ordered and drawn the most difficult political artillery and shooting in BiH: it needs to be torn down, now is the time. Gentlemen, this is not the time. As one of my predecessors said, "No matter what we do, all this will be yesterday, tomorrow," I say that we will not be, but Bosnia will be. Gentlemen, it won't go away. Don't be mad at me for telling you this. We must not allow our country, the state of BiH, to be destroyed, especially in segments where it is certain to collapse. And I'm telling you honestly and openly. Believe me, I've tried really hard not to be too emotional, but I can't avoid it because I'm that way by nature and you know it very well. I'm the last person in the world who'll stop believing in people and you know it, because without you and me and people like me, they couldn't survive 24 hours. So believe me, I say everything I say as a man, not just as an MP, just as a man, because I think so. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8810	Thank you. Dear Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8811	Thank you. I would like to just point out a few Kabil and ask a few questions that may be a small task for all of us in this period until the next time we meet in this Parliamentary Assembly. So, Mr. Kabil said what should be the essence of thinking about all of us in this country, which is our common land, is and will remain so. And I hope that 68 of us will arrange it so that all of us can be as good as each other. And in order to do that, we need to learn to talk. Here, unfortunately, today in this Parliamentary Assembly, I have convinced myself that there is no, obviously there is neither knowledge nor will nor desire to talk in a manner worthy of this Parliamentary Assembly. I would like to thank my colleague Mešić, thank Mr. Kabil, thank Mr. Lozančić, thank Mr. Belkić, and thank Mr. Džaferović. They have today shown that here can be discussed in a way that parliamentarians should discuss. These were arguments, these were debates that were democratic and allowed, that wasn't what brought us back to time, as Mr. Jovičić said, the era of amoeba and rainworms. Gentlemen, if this really was discussed in this House, then some people are probably pulling some former habits and knowledge, so they're still trying to establish it here as a means of communication. Please don't do this. And I ask that this Parliamentary Assembly, not the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, be the one to assign the Order to Srđan Aleksić. That was our mission, gentlemen, that wasn't Mr. Tadić's job. I ask you that we in this Parliamentary Assembly speak as those who have one and only country to care about. Her name is BiH, that's her name. As for the Court and the D.A., let's give him capacity, give them strength, give them instruments, strengthen them and strengthen them, and he'll do his job faster and more effectively and lead to certain results that we'll all probably be satisfied with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8812	Thank you. I've released a wide discussion today about everything, hoping that if this item of the agenda comes to the next session of the Assembly, then we have less to say. But I don't think it's appropriate at the end of this debate to give a lesson to certain MPs, to commend others, not to touch a word of the agenda points. Dear MP, second deputy, Mr. Denis Bećirović has something to add. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8813	I'll skip the discussion, I won't speak except for one thing I want to say, since several MPs have mentioned it, so just so you have in mind, and here's my colleague, Prodanović, and some know. There is a lot to be criticised and what is not good in this country, but here you know, for information this parliament, the House of Representatives in the past, whether it was in 2007 or 2008, is on a proposal, it doesn't matter whose unanimous adoption in Trebinj to build a monument to Srđan Aleksić. So that was about four, five years ago. It's not bad that we might reactivate such a conclusion and infuse it with some new ideas. And about this other part, I'm going to skip today's discussion. We've heard various messages today, but we've also sent a general message that we're not exactly rational, practical and pragmatic in the sense that we're proposing laws that are known in advance to have no majority. This isn't the only draft law that's on the agenda today. It might be good for all of us to try to focus on Euro-Atlantic topics and what we have a consensus on. What is worth to us today, such emotions, such discussions – some good ones, some of them not, depending on which angle – but ultimately the result will be zero. Thank you. 69
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8814	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the 10th point of the Ad agenda. Ten. Decision on the participation of police officers from Bosnia and Herzegovina in the transformed mission UNMIK (Sudan) to UNMISS (South Sudan) and UNISFA (Abyei), BiH presidency material In 9.1.2012, the Bureau submitted to the parliamentary procedure a decision on the participation of BiH police officers in a transformed mission of UNMIK (Sudan) and UNMISS (South Sudan) and UNISFA (Abiei). The BiH Joint Commission for Defence and Security submitted its Opinion on the Decision on 14.2.2012. I'm opening a debate on the decision. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 11th point, Ad. 11. Report on the financial audit of the BiH Section at the 2010 EXPO-2010 World Exhibition in Shanghai, material of the BiH Institutions Audit Office
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8820	We're waiting for SDS.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8821	Who are we waiting for? The one we were waiting for right away, right? I thank my colleagues from the SDS. Please prepare yourselves. We're voting on the adoption of the minutes from the 20th and 21st sessions. Prepare to vote. You can vote now! For 34, there was no "no" one. I understand we've adopted the minutes from the 20th and 21st sessions. Moving to point 3. 3. A request from the Alliance for a Better Future of BiH's MPs to discuss the draft law amending BiH's election law, we vote on an emergency procedure request. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! For 24, there were no votes 'against', 13'restricted'. No entity support. Shall we go to the second round? We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! For 24, there were no votes 'against', 'abstained' 14. I understand we've adopted an emergency procedure request. I'm opening a debate on the bill. Is there a need for a motionary to explain, or shall we move to a vote? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We can vote. Thank you. Please prepare for the vote. Vote, now! 'For' 22, 'against' 13,'restricted' three. Insufficient entity majority. 72
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8823	It's an ex post adjustment.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8824	We're going to a later match. Within three days, as envisioned by the BiH Constitution, this parliament will be notified. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: 4. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Internal Audit of BiH Institutions (second reading) We vote on the Proposal for a Law in a second reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! For 38, there were no votes "against" and "abstained." I find that we passed the bill in the second reading. Fifth point: 5. Proposal for a law on the prohibition of denial, minimisation, justification or approval of holocausts, crimes of genocide and crimes against humanity, with the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics of the Glasmo on the opinion of the Joint Commission I remind you that the opinion is negative. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 14, "against" 24, "abstained" wasn't. I find that no negative opinion of the Joint Commission has been accepted and that this law is returning to the Commission's review. I would like to remind you that there was also the Commission's conclusion in which the Extended College agreed yesterday 'that the College should be proposed to the Constitutional Commission of this issue, amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure'; if this is the case with the Commission, then we should not vote on this conclusion, or do you need to vote on this conclusion ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It is therefore agreed that for this particular issue, and the Commission did not propose to vote on reactivate the work group's work on the full amendments to the Rules of Procedure, but only on this particular issue. 73 And this particular question yesterday was solved that way by the Expansive College. So I think it's too high to vote on this conclusion. Moving to six points: six. Proposal for a law supplementing the law on the financing of BiH institutions (first reading) We vote on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! For 16, there were no abstentions. Insufficient entity support from the Federation of BiH. Shall we move on to the second round?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8826	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8827	Later alignment We move to 7th point: 7. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Payments and Receipts in BiH institutions (first reading) We vote on the Proposal for a Law in First Reading. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! For 24, there was no "against" vote, "abstained" 13, enough entity support. I find that we have passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions. Moving to the eighth point: 8. Proposal for a law on the termination of the Act on the Court of Justice of BiH, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, Glasmo on the Commission's opinion. I remind you, the opinion was negative. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 22, 'against' 13,'restricted' three. Insufficient entity majority for this request. Shall we move on to the second round? 74
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8828	Let's go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8829	We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare for the vote You can vote now! "For" 21, "against" 13, "restricted" three. Two-thirds of the RS vote 'against'. I find that we have not adopted the Commission's opinion and that this law is returning to the commission stage. Moving to point nine: nine. The draft law on the termination of the BiH Prosecutor's Law, with the opinion of the Constitutional Legal Commission, also negatively, the Commission's opinion, we vote on it. Please prepare for the vote You can vote now! 'For' 22, 'against' 13,'restricted' three. Insufficient entity majority. Shall we go to the second round?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8830	We will.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-16-0.u8831	We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 22, 'against' 13,'restricted' three. Two-thirds of the vote 'against' from the RS. I find that we have not adopted the Commission's negative opinion and that the proposal for a law on the termination of the Prosecution Act returns to the commission stage. We move to the 10th point: a decision on the participation of BiH police officers in a transformed mission of UNMIK (Sudan) to UNMISS (South Sudan) and UNISFA (Abyei) vote on the adoption of the Decision. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! For 33, there were no votes 'against', 'abstained' four. Enough entity majority. I realize we've adopted this decision. 75 We move to the 11th point: Report on the Financial Audit of the BiH Section at the World Exhibition Glasmo on the adoption of the Report, with the Commission's opinion and the conclusions contained in it. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! For 37, there was no "no" one. I agree that we adopted the Report with the opinion of the Commission and the conclusions contained in it. We move to 12th point: Resolution of Azra Hadžiahmetović membership in the Interparliamentary Friendship Group of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with other countries' parliamentary bodies, number IV, and appointment of a member of the Interparliamentary Friendship Group of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for bilateral co-operation with parliamentary bodies of other countries, number VI Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 37, "against" and "abstained" there wasn't. I realize we've made these changes. We move to the 13th point: Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on the mutual protection of classified information between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of Montenegro Please prepare for the vote. Shall we vote in the package? We will. You can vote now! For 38, "against" and "abstained" there wasn't. Dear colleagues and colleagues, thank you for your patience and cooperation. The next session is scheduled for March 15th. Thank you. The seat's finished at 17:45.
