ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u981	I think we have a quorum in the O.R. right now, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honored colleagues and fellow delegates, present representatives of the Council of Ministers and international organisations, respected media representatives, I warmly welcome you and open the 11th session of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. I've been obavjestiti that there are 15 delegates present at the session, but as far as I can see, are all the delegates in the Bošnjak order registered for... sessions? They did. The card's in, right? Thank you. So, there are 15 delegates present at the session, of which 5 from Bosniak, 5 from Croatian and 5 from the Serbian people. For the session, I propose the following Dn e v n i r e d: 1. The adoption of the minutes with the 9th and 10th sessions of the House of Peoples; 2nd. Answers to delegates' questions and delegates' questions; 3. Proposal for a legislation on the census, households and apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011, issue: 02-02-9-37/10, from 02.07.2010. (second reading), Proposer: House of Representatives; 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Infringements No: 01,02-02-1-26/11, of 20.12.2011, (first reading), Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH; 5. Report on the work of the BiH Law Department for 2010, issue: 01,02-10-387-11, from 14.12/11; 6. Information on the state and problems in the functioning of the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce, material of the Council of Ministers, issue: 01,02-28-991/11, of 07/09/11; 7. The appointment of the Secretary of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH; 8. The selection of one representative of the academic community in the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption (the Interim Joint Commission candidate ranking of both homes, issue: 01,02-50-14-1049-3/11, of 23.12.2011; 9. Selection of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance (Interim Joint Commission candidate for both homes, issue: 01,02-50-14-968-5/11, of 08.12.2011).; 10. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement on Loan and Project between KfW, Frankfurt in Main (KfW), and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH (loan) and Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska, and MH 2 "ERS" Trebinje ZP Elektro Doboj a.d. Doboj (the Agency for the Implementation of the Project) of 50,000.000,00 euros – project "Hydroelectrica Tevina III", 11. Giving consent to the ratification of the Finance Agreement and the project between KfW, Frankfurt in Main (KfW), and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH (primary), and Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska, and MH "ERS" Trebinje ZP Elektro Doboj a.d. Doboj (project implementation agency) amounting to 5.390.000,00 euros – project "Hydroelectrica Tevina III" 12. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on cooperation in the protection of natural and civilization disasters; 13. Providing consent for ratification of Appendix No. 1 to the Financial Agreement relating to the National Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina – Part I, based on IPA's transition assistance and strengthening institutions for 2008; 14. Providing consent for ratification of Appendix No. 2 The financing agreement relating to the National Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina – Part II under the IPA component – Assistance in transition and institution building for 2008; 15. Giving consent to the ratification of the Additional Funding Agreement for the Finance and Project Agreement, from 12.10.2009, between KfW, Frankfurt in Main (KfW), and Bosnia and Herzegovina, represented by the Ministry of Finance and Treasury of BiH (primary), as well as Republika Srpska, represented by the Ministry of Finance of Republika Srpska, and the City of Banja Luka (project implementation agency) for up to 980,000 euros – project City Water Supply and Water Management Systems in Banja Luka – (Components: 1. ‘water supply’ and 2. ‘Wastewater disposal systems’; 16. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the construction of an interstate bridge across the Sava River near Gradiška and connected border sections of the interstate E-661.; 17. Giving consent to the ratification of the Fife Agreement (Federation Internationale de Football Association) and Uefe (Union des Association of Europeennes de Football) and the Council of Ministers of BiH, the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, and the Football Federation of BiH in connection with the Project of the Construction of the Football Training Centre of the Football Federation of BiH (FSBiH) in Zenica to be financed jointly by Fif and Uef; 18. Granting consent to ratification of the Treaty between the Swiss Confederation and the Republic of Austria on the establishment and operation of the International Centre for the Development of Migration Policy (ICMPD); 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the International Convention on the Harmonised System of Names and Code Marks of Goods and Protocols amending and supplementing the International Convention on the Harmonised System of Names and Code Marks of Goods; 20. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the construction of southern border roads in Corridor 5c. This is a harmonised agenda for the College of the House of Peoples. Is anyone answering for a word, is there a change and a supplement? Here you go. A dear colleague, Halid Genjac, came forward.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u982	Thank you. 3 Dear Chairman, honourable colleagues and colleagues, media representatives, I propose that point 7. called in the call – Appointing the Secretary of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and adding the words "and the Secretary of the Joint Services of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH". Explanation: Consensus on what nation is like a secretary in which home, and who is the secretary of the Joint Services. In the meantime, consensus has also been reached on the personal solution, and given that the Secretary of the Joint Services has both been appointed home, so the House of Peoples and the House of Representatives, and that we are already on the agenda for the appointment of the Secretary of the House of the Peoples, I suggest that we do this appointment in this act.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u983	I thank Mr. Genjac. Dear colleague Mladen Ivanić came to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u984	Dear Chairman, fellow Members, I expected that today we would discuss the work of the foreign prosecutors, which is the conclusion adopted by this House in September leaving a month of time to prepare that information. We're here four months after that conclusion, and we don't have a debate on this subject, so Dom didn't make any assessment, Dom didn't give his views on it, he asked the D.A.'s office to prepare information on the work of foreign prosecutors and judges and to give his assessment. Here's the four months that we've been completely ignoring this House's conclusions, and I'm asking the College to put it as a part of the agenda, even if we can discuss why, why the institutions don't respect this House's decisions. If we had a mass of things that were going on and on about dobrovoljački, and I don't even know you, you'd be in much more normal circumstances, you'd go ahead. I really do believe and ask you somehow from the College to do what you can to make that information finally in accordance with the conclusion of this House deliver, prepare and be the subject of debate. And with a fundamental goal of avoiding political manipulations on the subject. So please, if here today is probably not real, put it on the next point, the realization of this House's conclusion so that we can discuss it, this way I'm afraid it'll all remain an empty word that no one respects, if no one respects us then that we know that we are not respected by people and that we respect some other people who are more important than this, than this House is.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u985	I thank the honorable Mr Ivanic. I must respond immediately in terms of technical conditions in order to naturally meet the business provisions and other colleagues. So, you know that the material itself bears a certain kind of discussion or carries a point of the agenda, given that at this point we do not have such adequate material, and given that you are entirely, my opinion personally, rightly when you initiate such a discussion, so since you have said in advance that it meets your request that the College of the House of Nations prepares the material suitable for the next item of the agenda, I apologize for the administration of Mr. Čović, so I suggest that we leave it for that opportunity. Does this mean that we don't have to make a statement about your proposal, but that we can make that kind of commitment to your initiative? 4
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u986	Well, I'm a real man, and I know there are no conditions for this to be a agenda today, but I expected it as a point, and I hope you'll do something to finally, as much as you can.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u987	Okay.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u988	We're discussing this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u989	Thank you, Mr. Ivanic. In view of the proposal for an amended agenda as one business situation, so the Kolegijum proposes a person who enters the secretary's choice either at home or in common, we have to take a break, as far as I can see at my club's initiative, in order to first finish that session, the ad hoc session, and then consult other clubs in terms of this proposal. So I'm taking a break of 10 minutes, a joke or around the O.R., but please don't go too far. [[PAUZA]] Thank you. I'd like the delegates to join us. All right, gentlemen, we have, ladies and gentlemen, we have a quorum we can proceed with. Given that there are no other amendments and additions to the agenda, we will first declare whether or not the proposal to amend and supplement the agenda that will be adopted this way. Therefore, item 7 is complemented and reads – The appointment of the Secretary of the House of the Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the appointment of the Secretary of the Joint Services of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH in the House of Peoples. Since the same procedure is being carried out in the House of Representatives. I inform the College, he has established a proposal for a name, but as this name is not mentioned in the text of the agenda itself, and we will leave this other name for this item of the agenda. So, I'm putting on a proposal to amend, supplement, amend and supplement the agenda, to vote. Here you go. You know that the House of Nations has never made a problem. Thank you. Is this a technical mistake? Mr. Bradarić came out but, Hasan Bećirović, Mr. Genjac did vote or did you not vote? 5
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u991	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u992	Right, right. Thank you. So in the first round of 13-13 delegates there were for, from Federation 8, Serbian 5. Since there is a general and entity majority I find that the change and addition of the agenda has been adopted. And now we're moving on to a statement on the whole agenda. So, go ahead and start the vote. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates were from the Federation 9, Serbia 5. There's a general and entity majority, so I find the proposed agenda adopted. Moving to point one, Ad. 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 9th and 10th session of the House of Peoples I'm opening a debate on the records delivered, is anyone answering for your word? There are no reports, thank you. We move to a plea, we vote on the 9th session minutes. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 14 delegates, 9 from the Federation, from Serbia 5. There's a general and entity majority, so I'm finding that the 9th session of the House of Peoples has been adopted. We're moving on to a statement on the record from the 10th session. Thank you. I find that out of the 14-14 delegates present, Federation 9 was from Serbia 5. Since there is a general and entity majority I find that the record from the 10th session of the PSBiH People's House has been adopted. Moving to point two, Ad. 2. Answers to Legislative Questions and Delegative Questions
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u995	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, vice-president, distinguished colleagues and fellow envoys, respected media and distinguished guests, I welcome you all together, and I would like to say that I am partially satisfied with the answer to the Constitutional Court's question, and what is actually missing I will do in addition to the answers under this second part of the parliamentary questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u996	I thank Mrs. Krišto. The honorable delegate, Mr Hasan Bećirović, has come to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u997	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Honorable Presidency I just wanted to say, here are the delegates who later asked the delegates the answers, I asked the delegate questions at the 7th and 8th session of the House of Peoples, I didn't get the answer, it would be incorrect of the current ministerial assembly to leave these answers to a new meeting. The questions are a little difficult, but not so hard that it couldn't have been answered during that time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u998	I thank Mr Bećirović. Mr. Ivanic and Mr. Mehmed Bradarić did not answer for a comment on the satisfaction of the questions asked and their answers. That's why we're going to the second part of this agenda, and that's asking new delegates questions. For the first time, dear colleague Krstan Simić came forward, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u999	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your slow reaction, I have applied exactly as Mr. Bećirović reacted, I have asked the question – which is why nothing is done to execute the European Court of Human Rights ruling, the deadline of 6 months has expired, it is the verdict of Šekarić(?(?) and Pashagic(Pašagić) against BiH? The European Court ordered that, within 6 months, the law on pensions in the Federation of BiH be removed from the finality of the ruling. 6 months have passed already there is 7 a time, the same such request has been in a slightly mild tone... in the Karanović verdict, but until today no action has been taken, and I have not received an answer, whether it is on what it is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1000	I thank my esteemed colleague, Krstan Simić. Dear colleague Nermina Kapetanović came to the floor, please welcome Mrs. Kapetanović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1001	Mr. Chairman, as well as my colleague Bećirović, I express my dissatisfaction because I did not get answers to the questions I asked at the 7th and 8th sessions. My new delegate question, actually, is an initiative, so in accordance with Article 9. The Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH launch an initiative to include the agenda of the points – Considering the situation in the area of emigrants with special reference to the possibility of using the financial and human resources of emigrants to develop BiH. In my explanation, I would like to say that BiH is one of the countries with the most numerous emigration compared to the number of people, daily we meet with a number of information about large human resources of emigrants, their willingness to help develop BiH, the huge amounts of money they send to BiH, continuing to emigrate particularly young and educated people. What is the situation and what are the needs of our people abroad, what are the links and what the state does to strengthen these ties and co-operation with emigrants, does BiH really have such large resources in its immigration, how can they help develop the country, what can BiH institutions do to strengthen co-operation with their emigrants, to include them in development processes in BiH, to encourage and facilitate their investment in BiH are issues we little know about? Since it is a very important area, and since the BiH Parliamentary Assembly has never received an official report, that is, information on the situation in this area I am delivering an initiative and I ask that it be classified as the agenda point of the next session of the BiH House of Parliamentary Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1002	I ask you that every business right that you have as a delegate still through this motion procedure, so if the initiative is to be placed on the next agenda, because we do not have the basis to produce a agenda point from the delegate issue unless we have some material related to it. So, I would only beg, of course, that's all right and I agree personally with that, but to go into the proposing procedure, so in the basic procedure of this initiative that you're talking about. Thank you. I guess from the Council of Ministers is who, here we have three ministers here, whether someone wants to answer in part or in writing. All right, all right, all right. My dear colleague, Staša Košarac, came to the floor. Here you go, Mr. Košarac. 8
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1003	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, members of the Council of Ministers. The real question is whether it's worth asking delegate questions if we've been waiting a few months for answers.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1004	That's right.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1005	I, in my opinion, asked the 8th session the Ministry of Justice, which concerns certain legal regulations and their full implementation, when it comes to convicted persons based on war crimes and the use of convenience. And for the past two months, we can't give an answer to people who are asking for the authentic opinion of the Justice Department. Regardless of my dissatisfaction, I'm going to ask two more questions and, of course, I expect I won't get answers. Both questions are for the Ministry of Security. 1. When will the BiH Parliamentary Assembly be informed by the Ministry of Security through a written report and about the recent Wahhabi attack on the US Embassy in Sarajevo? 2. Does the Ministry of Security also have a draft report on when it will submit to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, which concerns the BiH Foreign Ministry's inspection of the official memo by Deputy Foreign Minister Babic-Babić-Trišić, and on the destruction of documentation from the Foreign Minister's Office? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1006	I thank my colleague, Košarac. I don't see that there is a representative of the Ministry of Security, does anyone on behalf of the Council of Ministers regret commenting on this situation? No, I don't. Thank you. We'll ask for a written answer. The word came from a distinguished colleague, Borjana Krišto. Here you go, Mrs. Krišto.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1007	Thank you very much. My question is, on the envoy's side, addressed to the Federation of BiH Constitutional Court, in which I thank the fifth answer and want to ask a new question. Therefore, in the reply submitted for 2002, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, – 2011 in which the Constitutional Court of the Federation of BiH monitored the implementation of its decisions in accordance with the provisions of Article 61 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 9 The Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court of the Federation shall specify 13 solutions which have been established that no judgments of the Court of Justice have been carried out, as well as data showing that another 15 decisions of the Court have been carried out or are at the execution stage. Analyzing the answer and the information provided, I am asking a delegation question – What about the next verdicts, or at what stage is their execution? Judgment number: In 29/09 of 28 September 2010, published in the "Official Journal of the Federation of BiH" number: 80/10 since 06 December 2010, and concerns the Law on Federal Ministries and other federal bodies. Second verdict: In the 40/10 of April 2011 published in the Official Journal of the Federation of BiH, issue: 34/11 of 06 June 2011, with reference to establishing the constitutionality of the Regulation on the acquisition of old age pension under favourable conditions for members of the former Federation of BiH and state officials and deputy federal defence ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1008	I thank my esteemed colleague, Krišto. Is there anyone on behalf of the Council of Ministers who would like to comment on that? It's my duty to ask you, so don't feel uncomfortable. Okay. We'll look for a written answer. Dear colleague Stjepan Krešić answered, Mr Krešić, please welcome.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1009	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, as we know Croatia is entering the EU, becomes a full member of the EU on July 1st 2013. My representative's question is: Is he late for the construction of the so-called The Schengen border crossings south and north which have been negotiated as the only border crossings, are they delayed with the construction of these border crossings and will those border crossings be technically completed on January 1st 2013? Are there activities and what activities, talks and negotiations will be conducted on the possibility of agreeing and new border crossings, as this would reduce significantly the transport costs and all other costs of the economy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1010	I thank Mr. Krešić. Do any of the members of the Council of Ministers have a need? Dear Minister Rudo Vidović, here you are, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1011	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear envoys, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the question is complex but I feel the need to answer at least when it comes to the jurisdiction of this ministry. So in any case the written 10 answers will follow, but what I can say here under the agenda of today's session is actually ratification of the agreement between BiH and the Republic of Croatia that defines here is the southern border move. In this way, practically this ministry has committed itself to actually participating in that part of its jurisdiction, but here I would like to say that the main responsibility for the construction of border crossings is, in fact, the role of the Direct Taxation Authority which will be the owner of that area and, of course, in the south of the Federal Directorate for Highways, which will build a highway within that border crossing of Bijac. This second question, therefore, is there a conversation? In BiH, there is a... formed commission that is actually dealing with the issue, the issue, otherwise by integrated border crossing management and they are conducting intensive talks. Therefore, in response to which the Council of Ministers will deliver to the esteemed representative, the role will likely be included, so other institutions except for this ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1012	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear colleague Krešić, are you satisfied with the answer or are you asking for a written answer?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1013	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1014	Here's because Mr. Krešić didn't use the microphone for the record, so I find Mr. Krešić is pleased with the answer, but he wants it processed in writing. Thank you. I find that there are no other requirements and applications for participation in this agenda point, so we've exhausted its contents, so we move to point three. Ad. 3. Proposal for a Law on Census, Households and Apartments in Bosnia and Herzegovina 2011, Proposer: House of Representatives This is a second reading, a second reading discusses amendments and votes on the bill's proposal. You have received a report from the Joint Committee on Economic Reform and Development. The Joint Commission has adopted a bill with 11 amendments that have become an integral part of it. In accordance with Article 112(2), On 24.01.2012, the Rules of Procedure of the House of Peoples of Delegates of Staša Košarac submitted amendments to the House of Peoples in time. I give the word to Mr Halid Genjac, whom the Commission appointed rapporteur at the House of Peoples session. He's not there. Thank you. 11 I'm opening a debate on this agenda, if anyone comes forward? There are no reports, but I would have to, therefore, since there are no reports, that one thing I'm saying here. Whether it's a technical mistake or someone can explain it to me, which is why the title hasn't changed this Law, so it says it's still the List Act, etc. 2011? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1017	Well, I thought I wouldn't answer, but here's the thing I decided to say just a few things. I am pleased that the agreement has obviously been reached and that BiH will finally get a list. Here, and I have to be extremely happy for that reason. But deep down, I wonder, and what have we done just now? And what's been a big change in this period, which made it make sense for two years to waste time and be with whom I don't remember which country, the only country in the world that didn't have a list. I'm very interested in what the political actors who were against each other finally got by this agreement? The members of the Bureau will still be elected as they are elected, and with and without members of 48, the House of Peoples will continue to be elected as is elected, the House of Representatives, the Council of Ministers, everything remains the same. And we two years without a list, put on a pillar of shame, for no particular reason or special gain. And I would say very unseriously, and even funny from those who were defending BiH, Article 48, and the rights of refugees, to those who declared all this treason and I don't know what it is you don't know. A general circus that had the greatest negative consequences for the citizens in the far line, due to the general negative image of this country. But here, if this is the beginning of some harmony and a nice functioning of a six, let's take two years to put up with it, so I guess now we'll have some result, so we'll finally know how many of us there are. Thank you very much. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1018	I thank Mr Ivanic. A esteemed colleague, Sulejman Tihić, also applied for the word.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1019	I welcome everyone here present. I want to join here in a certain way and what Mr Ivanić said. As for me personally and the U.S.A., we were able to adopt this law at a time when we had so-called. The Prudic process, when we agreed between other issues and the question of the Census Act. Unfortunately, in BiH, all issues, including this, are often used for various politicisation, exaggeration and other interests. This Law was not adopted when it was to be adopted and here we are late compared to all other countries. But here it is important that we have now agreed and that this is the result of the agreement and of the six leaders, on December 28, where these two amendments have been incorporated. It's good for BiH, it's good for all BiH citizens. It is particularly important for further development and economy, it is also important when it comes to the social problem, BiH's path to the EU and the need in the end for us to face the truth, what is the situation in BiH from economic to unknown, ethnic indicators, which will be recorded and shown this time. So all of us who are dissatisfied with some data, with how it is, how it's going to show statistics, it's an opportunity for us to prove our commitment, this one or that one, to fix from economic to ethnic indicators. On the one hand, in particular, a member of the 48th, an ethnic representation in BiH institutions, is troubled here. We have accepted this amendment. That's why I need to say it, because we're often criticized. And it will likely be an opportunity for many to criticise us who are voting for this amendment, that the issue of ethnic representation in institutions, both the entity and the BiH state are being resolved by other legal acts. It is resolved by the entity's constitution, resolved by the BiH Constitution, by appropriate laws, and in the end it can also be done by election law. But nowhere does that get rid of the Census Act. The law can only be a basis for ensuring ethnic representation, and the stop of entities and RS and BiH say that until further notice, when it comes to ethnic representation, the results of the '91 census apply. A year. In any case, we know that this is not applicable in the Federation, unfortunately neither in the RS, that we have done everything on either side to comply with that provision of the Constitution. However, it is often not possible to implement it from some real and justified circumstances, especially at local level. Therefore, the Census List Act is important and it is good that we adopt it now and that, on the basis of that Census Act, we are doing everything to improve some of the indicators with which we are not satisfied, to improve the engagement of all, to make sure that those data are not good, to represent the consequences of this or that, and those and others, that this census is the basis for our greater engagement and work to improve the overall situation in BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1020	I thank my colleague Tihić. 13 There are no others reported, so let us turn to a statement. The first statement is related to the amendment of the Staša Košarac delegate. Run the plea. Thank you. Of those 14-14 voted in favour, from Federation 9, from Serbian 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the amendment of Staša Košarac delegates has been adopted. Now we move on to a statement on the bill. Thank you. Of the 14-14 participants, from Federacina 9, from Serbia 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that the Law on the Census of Population, Households and Apartments in BiH was adopted in 2013 in a different text than the House of Representatives, so we need to form a Joint Committee on Text Coordination. I'm calling on the club chiefs and, of course, other delegates to deliver their proposals. I'm calling my first honorary fellow Košarac player. Here you go. You have to sign up. Here's an advantage, dear colleague Borjana Krišto, for applying earlier.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1021	Thank you very much. Here's to, in front of the Croatian People's Club in the Committee for the Consensation of various adopted texts, I would like to propose to Mr. Josip Merdžo.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1022	Thank you. For a word, the following came forward, dear colleague Krstan Simić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1023	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I suggest Mr. Staš Košarac, the club chief. And I think that maybe, uh, that it's a practice for us to have club bosses, since they represent clubs in these situations as negotiators when we have them.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1024	Even if they understand the law itself.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1025	Well, of course, the bosses are.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1026	Yeah, you're from that period, yeah. Thank you. The word came from a respected counterpart, Hasan Bećirović, of the same era. 14
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1027	...an deputy, since the president's not here. I, on behalf of the Bosniak Club, propose to this Commission Mr Halid Genjac.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1028	Thank you. Okay. Now we move to a statement on the proposed members of the Commission. So proposed were counterpart Josip Meržo, co-worker Staša Košarac and counterpart Halid Genjac. Run the plea. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 voted in favour. From Federation 9, from Serbian 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that for the members of the Joint Commission to comply with the text of this law from the House of Nations, called Josip Merdžo, Staša Košarac and Halid Genjac. Moving to the next item on the agenda, that's point four. Ad. 4. Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on First Reading Infractions, Proposing the Council of Minsitarians Since it is the first reading of the bill and in accordance with Article 100. The Rules of Procedure first hold a debate on the necessity of adoption and the principles on which the bill is based. You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission has accepted the principles of the bill. The House of Representatives passed the bill in the first reading. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Mr. Krstan Simić. You don't want to, thank you. I give the word to the bill promoter, if he's present? He doesn't want to, thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? Dear colleague Krstan Simić came to the floor.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1030	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I need to say a few words about the quality of this law. I'm really a little confused with his content. Because when you read article 44, what's contained in this proposal already exists. It is very explicitly said that the revenues of the BiH Budget are all, infringing penalties related to the violation of the law at the state level. I really don't understand that we're proposing a law like this. This provision may be unclear, but then when we get to the very proposal, exclusively from Article 1 of this article, 15 is suggested to be from indirect taxes, etc. And precisely, why would this be extraordinary, what does this exempt from Article 1, and it's really about a single proposal that doesn't meet the standards of the quality of the law. The second remark I have on this is the explanation of this proposal. Especially in the light of the compliance of the rules with European legislation. They are here to give reasons absolutely related to the establishment of those standards prescribed by Article 6. European Conventions. But that applies to a misdemeanor procedure. And I must remind you that this is about the collection of already completed judicial procedures, when they are completed, only to whom this is paid. And I'm going to have to intervene here with the amendment when it comes to that time, because really this law, attitude 1, attitude 2, is contradictory. This is extremely, I don't know what rules out, which is why it's an exception to Article 1 when, in this position, we already have that obligation, that it is BiH's income. But I still had to make comments about this, because it really is one thing, I would say a proposal that is not exactly consistent with the rules of the profession, clarity and the quality of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1031	Thank you, fellow Simić. Since we haven't, the envoy, Mrs. Borjana Krišto, called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1032	Thank you very much. So here I am also reading these additions to the Law of Infractions, even the rules of consultation with the esteemed Minister of Justice, who is proposing these additions. They really came to me by saying, dilemmas and legal technical ones, as well as those in terms of distribution of funds. But here, by reading the provisions, i.e. those relating to the argument, there was a dilemma here, when the courts responsible for the conduct of the infringement procedure in the area of indirect taxes, when they adopt a solution to the offence, determine different payment accounts. And it is the Directorate for Immaculate Taxation who is competent to allocate these funds, according to this article in 44, which is the esteemed Krstan Simić and read. Indeed, one such dilemma is created that we should remove to the law when it is in another reading, which is in the amendment procedure, but in any case, I think we need to make the supplement in a way that is clear and precise of the norm, that is, the misunderstandings that arise in relation to the jurisdiction of the Board of Implicit Taxation and Infringement Courts who are obliged to determine a payment account for such cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1033	Thank you, colleague Krišto. Is anyone else answering for word? As far as I can tell, it's gone. Thank you very much. 16 I suggest we move to a vote on the bill in the first reading. Please initiate procedure. Regarding this Law, it means, of the present 14 envoys – for it was 14. From Federation of BiH 10, RS 4. We have the general majority, the entity majority, and I find that the law passed in the first reading. That's what we ended up with on the fourth agenda. We're going to agenda item five, Ad. 5. Report on the work of the BiH Ombudsman for 2010, since 14.12.2011 You have received the opinion of the Constitutional Commission of the House of Peoples. The Commission adopted the Report and proposed its adoption to the House. The House of Representatives adopted the report. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission, Mr. Krstan Simić. Thank you very much. I give my word to the BiH Attorney General, if he is present? Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Who's answering for a word? Since no one has applied or shown interest, as far as I see it visually, I suggest we initiate the voting procedure on this report. Thank you very much. From the 15 - 14 present, it was for, 1 abstention. From the Federation of BiH of 10, 10 for, from the RS of 5 present, 4 for. We have the general majority, the entity majority, and we are establishing that the BiH Ombudsman's 2010 work report has been adopted. Thank you very much. We're moving to agenda number six, Ad. Six. Information on the state and problems in the functioning of the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce, material of the BiH Council of Ministers since 07/09/11
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1036	Well, here I have to say that through the work of the Commission on Foreign Trade Policy, Traffic and Relations of the House of Peoples, we have had a natural opportunity to make a statement about the information itself, confirming, of course, that we have received it, given the fact that the subject of the debate was in the House of Representatives. However, my personal opinion that by the very act of receiving information to knowledge, we will not solve the accumulated problems at the route of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, and I believe that in this context and the Parliamentary Assembly, which obviously could not have passed in the House of Representatives, should be determined on these issues. Because if we analyze in detail what the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce and what the Ministry has delivered, we see that we have completely dissonant tones and that we have a completely different approach to the implementation of the Foreign Chamber Act. Personally, I think it is very good for one simple reason why the members of the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce themselves, and above all I think of the entity, the chambers of commerce in particular in the electoral process have found a number of irregularities, which has definitely expressed the view that there has been a lack of confidence in the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce itself, in such a way that the elections itself and the decision to call the elections have been made by the President of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and not by law by the Assembly of the Foreign Chamber of BiH. And I think that's where all the further problems come from. Of course, during the implementation of such elections as they were made, an additional problem was also made, and it mainly refers to the election of delegates from the RS, where the Chamber of Commerce opposes, of course, the election of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, was not an actor, although according to the Law on the Foreign Chamber, it was not an actor of delegation of people to the Assembly of the Foreign Chamber of BiH and further complicated the existing situation. Of course, there are a number of different interpretations. The process was conducted primarily in the second-degree justice ministry, later in the BiH Court. At the Court of Justice's Appeals Council of BiH, where it was found that only the Court of BiH was not in charge of these issues, and not that the elections were held legitimately and we again have different translations among these parties that are not fully understood. Of course, like the established bodies of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, they have made a number of other decisions that obviously damage the credibility of members. First of all, I mean the detectives, the public authorities of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, etc. And I think that the BiH Parliament should be more qualified in this regard, not in a way that we just receive information to know and that in this way we are pushing things under the carpet or waiting for the new minister to arrive and, of course, again, I would say, to reason with the legal interpretation of the rules adopted by the BiH Parliament. Therefore, I personally believe that the House of the Peoples of BiH should firstly ask for the full implementation of the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce of BiH, with an emphasis on that member of the Law that defines the electoral process, as this article is clearly violated and the law is not implemented in accordance with what is stated in the Law. 18 And secondly, and secondly, the conclusion is that the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH is launching an initiative on the adoption of amendments and additions to the Law on the Foreign Chamber of Commerce, for the purpose of legal definition and method of transfer of public powers, regulation of the issue of detachment, control of the work of the chamber system and other issues of importance for the work of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce. So it's two conclusions. I would, of course, like my fellow delegates to declare these conclusions and to finally be able to receive information from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1037	I thank my colleague, Košarac, and I ask him only in writing to continue the procedure, to deliver these conclusions. And the word came from the esteemed colleague Mladen Ivanić. Mr. Ivanic, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1038	So the basic problem that we're even discussing outside the Chamber of Commerce is that of her right to have public authority. If she didn't have public authority, she should be an association of citizens. I generally think it's the long-term fate of such institutions. I don't see any association of citizens who should have any special advantages in obtaining public authority. I'm sorry, but it's the rest of some old concept of thinking, and I don't see why the state wouldn't call a tender, so I invited all the different associations to apply, which will do more effectively some work, some activity with public authority. But as long as the law gives the right, there will be battles like this and then there will be unprecedented political battles who are at the head, who is not at the head and I don't know what not. That is why my opinion, if we are at all serious about working on this subject, is that this law should be completely changed and these associations should literally be converted into associations of citizens or an association of institutions that have free will. Which can apply for public authority if they are more suitable than others. And why would they give me that by law? And I've always been against... and I've never been in for, mandatory membership and everything. Let those who benefit, rather than be forced by the state, be organized by laws, and also give authority. So that's a real problem for me. If it were a citizens' association, we wouldn't even be thinking about how to choose, nor should we discuss it. But it's not, it's got certain incomes and employment opportunities and it's pulling everything out of the law, and of course it's an interest that makes it talk like this. So, I'm closer if I can tell a suggestion to the promoter, the Ministry of Foreign Trade, to prepare a new law in future, to literally make the Chamber and BiH the way it is all over the world, a voluntary association of companies that benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1039	I thank my colleague Ivanic. I'm asking a fellow Košarac player did you hand over your conclusions? All eyes are on you. Thank you. I'm going to find out now that it's you, right, thank you. 19 So, since there are no further applications for participation in the discussion, we move on to a statement on the Information. Thank you. Of the 15 delegates present – 14 voted for, 1 was abstentioned. From Federation 9 to, 1 abstention, from Serbia 5 to. We have what I'm noticing, a situation where Mr. Tihić is not in the O.R., but his card is in the apparatus. Mr. Genjac, are you asking to repeat the vote for this? No need, thank you. Then I realize that there is both the general and entity majority and that the information on the state and problems in functioning of the BiH Foreign Chamber of Commerce has been accepted. We are now moving on to a statement on the conclusions proposed by the distinguished colleague Staša Košarac. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, 8.1 voted against, 5 were abstentioned. From the Federation for 3.1 against and 5 abstentions, from Serbia 5 for. There's a general majority, but there's no entity. ____________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Are you saying the Federation people used an entity vote? Okay. However, what is now a problem, Mr. Tihić is not in this room and we need to leave this for a alignment for the next session, so at this point I am interrupting this agenda point. And I'm going to point seven, Ad. Seven. The appointment of the Secretary of the House of the People of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH and the appointment of the Secretaries of the Joint Services of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH from the House of Peoples
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1042	I'm assuming it's a mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1044	In the letter that we have now received, it says – to carry out the duties of the secretary of the House of People for the 2010 term of office. – 2014 is proposed by Ferid Buljubašić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1045	I can only tell you that the excitement of Marina Vukoje today is immeasurable.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1046	Let's correct this.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1047	And where did you find that? In the last sentence. It is true. To perform the duties of Secretary of the House of Peoples. On the initiative ___________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Is it in the Croatian office? What to do, the inequality of the people comes to terms even when the benefit of other peoples, so to speak. So here's what I'm correcting, in line with the justified remark of a distinguished colleague of Staša Košarac. And the last position of the proposal, relating to Mr Ferid Buljubašić, is corrected in such a way that it is – to perform the duties of the secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the 2010 term of office. – 2014 is proposed by Ferid Buljubašić. Thank you. No one else answered for the word. I'm closing the debate, so we're going to vote. 21 We vote on the appointment of Marino Vukoja as secretary of the House of Nations for the 2010 term of office. - In 2014, so we hope it relaxes afterwards. Mr. Rodić, is it a mistake or what? Wrong. Please repeat the vote. Is it a mistake? Wrong again. Marin's radiating relative to that machine over there, apparently. Say it again. Marin's already agreed not to be unanimous, so. Of the 14 delegates present, from the third attempt – there were 14 delegates from Federation 9, from Serbia 5.. I Konstatuj it unanimous, with the existence of a general and entity majority, for the secretary of the House of Peoples of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the 2010 term. – 2014 called Mr. Marin Vukoja. Congratulations. We're moving on to a statement on the next decision. Please initiate the vote. Thank you. Would you like us to repeat the vote, Mr Simić?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1049	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1050	You don't want to, you didn't make a mistake. Okay. I find that out of the 14 delegates present – for any 13, 1 he was abstained. From Federation 9 to, from Serbian 4 to, 1 abstention. Well, since there is a general and entity majority, I find that for the secretary of the Joint Service of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH for the 2010 term. – 2014 and in part of the decision concerning the House of Peoples, named Mr Ferid Buljubašić. Moving to point eight, Ad. 8. Selection of one representative of the academic community in the Commission for the Selection and Monitoring of the Agency for the Prevention of Corruption and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption (Interim Joint Commission candidate rank) The Parliamentary Assembly of BiH at the 8th session of the House of Representatives, held on 25.08.2011 and the 4th session of the House of People, held on 28.07.2011, appointed members of the Interim Joint Commission of both homes to conduct a procedure for the appointment of a member of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Agency and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. At the 3rd session, the Interim Joint Commission of both homes set out a proposal for a list of candidates to appoint a member of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption Prevention and Co-ordination Agency. That's the proposal you received. 22 In line with the proposal from the Interim Joint Commission of both homes today, we should declare the appointment of Milenko Obad as the representative of the academic community in the Commission for the selection and monitoring of the work of the Anti-Corruption and Co-ordination Agency. The House of Representatives appointed Milanka Obad as the Commission. I give the word to Mr Hasan Bećirović, whom the Interim Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the House of Peoples session, if it pleases.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1052	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1053	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. There are no reports. Thank you. We're moving on to a plea. Of the 14 delegates present, 14 delegates were in favour. From Federation 9, from Serbian 5. So since there is a general and entity majority I find Milenko Obad has been appointed a representative of the academic community in the Commission for the Election and Monitoring of the Agency's work on the prevention of corruption and co-ordination of the fight against corruption. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Selection of three members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency (Temporary Joint Commission candidate list of both homes) At the 7th session of the House of Representatives held on 27.07.2011 and 4th session of the House of People, held on 28.07.2011, the Parliamentary Assembly appointed members of the Interim Joint Commission of both the PS BiH Houses to conduct procedures for selecting three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. At the 5th session of the Interim Joint Committee of both homes, it established and submitted a proposal for a single list of three candidates for the appointment of members of the Management Board of the High Education and Quality Insurance Agency. In line with the proposal from the Interim Joint Commission of both homes today, we should declare the appointment of three members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. The House of Representatives was appointed by Muris Čičić of the Bosniak people, Fran Ljubić of the Croatian People and Steva Pašalić of the Serbian people for members of the Management Board of the Higher Education and Quality Insurance Agency. 23 I give the word to Mr. Josip Merdžo, whom the Interim Commission has appointed as rapporteur at the meeting of the House of the Peoples, if He wills.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1055	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1056	Thank you. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Is anyone answering for a word? There are no reports. Thank you. We're moving on to a plea. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 14 delegates. From Federation 9, from Serbian 5. There is a general and entity majority, so I find that Muris Čičić, Frano Ljubić and Stevo Pašalić are appointed members of the Management Board of the Agency for the Development of Higher Education and Quality Insurance. Let's move on with this session. On the agenda of today's session, we still have the agreement to ratify the agreement and convention. I propose that the joint debate on the declaration of consent for the ratification of the Agreement and the Convention from point 10 to point 20, including point 20. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. Nobody's answering. Thank you. We move on to a statement on the proposal for this conclusion. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 14 delegates. From Federation 9, from Serbian 5. There's a general and entity majority, so I find that this proposal has been adopted. Ad. 10 - 20. Granting consent A report from the Commission on foreign and trade policy, customs, traffic and communication has been received. I give my word to the chairman of the Commission to Mr Hasan Bećirović if he wishes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1058	/no microphone turned on/
ParlaMint-BA_2012-02-01-0.u1059	There's nothing to add. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Is anyone answering for a word? 24 No reports reported. Thank you. Now we move to a plea of consent to the ratification of the Agreement and the Convention from point 10 to point 20, including point 20. Thank you. Of the 14 delegates present, there were 14 delegates. From Federation 9, from Serbian 5. Given that there is a general and entity majority I find that we have agreed to ratify the agreement and the Convention of point 10. Until point 20, including point 20. With this we have exhausted today's agenda, with the obligation and need now, of course to inform you officially and verbally – on behalf of the College of the House of Peoples and the Joint College, to the extent permitted, that there is a great possibility, that the work of the People's House will be continued on Friday, of course after the next session. I can't tell you yet whether it's a special session of the House of Peoples or a joint session of both homes, because there is still no agreement on this, so I ask you to plan your time with these delegates in order to enable the quorum for the next session to work. Thank you. Session completed at 12:25 p.m.
