ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12161	My colleagues and fellow representatives, distinguished guests, I apologize for this delay, but there are still some consultations within the clubs, so here I, as chairman of the House, suggest that we begin the session with an hour's delay. So I'll see you in an hour here. Thank you. [[PAUZA]] I would ask colleagues and fellow representatives, members of the Council of Ministers and guests to take their seats so that we could begin with the 36th session. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the honored guests continue the work of the 36th session of the Parliamentary House of BiH. And at the continuation of the session, our regular guests, presidents and members of the BiH presidency, the chairman and members of the BiH Council of Ministers, representatives of international organisations and embassies who regularly follow the work of our House, representatives of NGOs and media representatives, were invited to attend the meeting. The meeting also called on the chief director of the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency and the chief auditor of the BiH Institutions Audit Office and the chairman of the BiH Radio-Television Management Board to discuss the material in their jurisdiction, as well as the BiH parliamentary military commissioner to make an oath. I warmly welcome all present representatives and guests. According to the information service, the session is attended by 39 MPs and representatives. The absence was justified by the distinguished representative Nermin Purić and the distinguished representative Azra Hadžiahmetović announced a delay. I find the session has quorum and decision-making work. Before we move on to the realization of the agenda, we have one previous question. The House of Representatives, held at the 35th session, held in 23.10.2012 and appointed Mr Boško Šiljegović as BiH's parliamentary military commissioner to the House of Peoples at the 22nd session, held on 16.11.2012. In accordance with Article 11(3) of the Law on the Parliamentary Military Commissioner of BiH, the mandate of the military commissioner will begin by making an oath at the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. That's why I'm calling on Mr. Boško Šiljegović to take the oath.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12163	2
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12164	I swear.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12165	Declaring
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12166	that I will be conscious of my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12167	that I will knowingly perform the duties that I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12168	respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12169	I respect the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12170	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12171	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12172	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12173	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12174	Congratulations to the military commissioner.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12175	Thank you. [[APLAuz]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12176	Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to proceed with the session. As for the amendments and addition of the session agenda, I would like to point out that we have added to the agenda points that have met the business conditions which are: 3 Point 2. Confirmation of Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers' decision to appoint a minister and dragon in the BiH Council of Ministers. As you know today, we have received a decision from the chairman of the Council of Ministers of BiH and an immediate session of the Committee for the Preparation of the BiH Council of Ministers' Elections is scheduled. I hope you've all got the necessary materials. Then point 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Administrative Taxes under the haste procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives. Point 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters (Second Reading). Namely, as you know, we have removed this Bill proposal from the 36 session of the House of Representatives at the request of the Constitutional Court. As the deadline for the delivery of the report, the House College set 20.11.2012. Since the deadline was up, and the Committee held its session this morning and delivered a report on the proposal for a bill, we put it on the agenda of the 36th session of the House. Then point 18. Appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the Serb and Bosniak people, material number: 01-50-19-712/12 of 12.06.2012. – List of candidates of the Board of Elections and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH (rescheduled appointment at the 30th session of the House of Representatives, held on 21 June 2012). Then point 19. Appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the Croatian people, material number: 01-50-19-1239/12 of 07.11.2012. – List of candidates of the Committee for the Selection and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH. On the agenda, we removed the earlier point 15. A statement on the initiative of representatives of Senad Šepić, which reads: "The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives obliges the BiH Council of Ministers to provide from the funds of the current reserves and from other grants provided for the financing of the institutions of culture of importance for BiH at the level of 2010 for the work of these institutions", at the request of the Finance and Budget Committee, and you all got the request. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. Here you go. He's a colleague of Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12177	Well, I don't have any concrete suggestions, but I'd like some information. In fact, at the 35th session of this House, we postponed the vote on amendments to the Law on the financing of BiH institutions, citing that we need time, to see the House of Peoples and so on. According to my information, the House of Peoples has reached the conclusion that they will not put the law in the second reading procedure until the procedure is completed in the House of Representatives, so I want to get information why this law is not here today, or why are we not voting on this Law today because the debate is over? 4
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12178	Well, according to our information, the conclusion was about the House of Peoples' decision, but the House of Peoples did nothing, and that's why it's not here today.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12179	... The home of the people will not consider it... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12180	Thank you. So we don't have any more logs to discuss the agenda. I find that the extension of the 36th session of the House has the next Agenda 1. The election of the deputy chairman/president of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives from the Bosniak people; 2. Confirmation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers' Decision on the appointment of Ministers and Dragonary of Ministers in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers; 3. The adoption of the minutes of the 35th session of the House of Representatives; 4. Agents' questions: (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Administrative Taxes under the haste procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary House of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-45/12 of 19.11.2012; 6. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-40/12 of 24/09/12. (second reading); 7. Proposal for a Law amending Bosnia and Herzegovina's Election Law – Proposer: Ismet Dervoz, Law No: 01-02-1-38/12 of 04/09/2012. (Second Reading); 8 / 8 Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Communication Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-34/12 of 27.08.2012. (first reading); 9. Proposal for a Law on Mine Action – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-39/12 of 11/09/2012. (first reading); 10. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-41/12 of 11.10.2012. (first reading); 11. Proposal for a Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina Foundations – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-42/12 of 11.10.2012. (first reading); 12. Report on BHRT's work and business for 2011, material of the BiH Radio-TV Management Board, issue: 01,02-50-19-580/12 of 30.04.2012 and 01,02-50-19-580-1/12 of 16.10.2012; 5 13. Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2011, the BiH Presidency's material, number: 01,02-16-1-983/12 of 26/07.2012; 14. Report on the Financial Audit of the Report on the Implementation of the 2011 Budget of the BiH Institutions, material of the Office for the Audit of BiH institutions, issue: 01-16-1-1138/12 of 28/09/2012; 15. Annual report on external trade authorisations issued for arms, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2011, material of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, issue: 01,02-25-1152/12 of 05.10.2012; 16. Declaration on the initiative of MPs Božo Ljubić from the 33rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 06/09/2012, which reads: “In accordance with Article 8. Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH's House of Representatives ('The Official Messenger of BiH'), No. 33/06, 41/06, 81/06, 91/06, 91/07, 87/09 and 28/12), I present to you a representative initiative: Proposal for a Council of Ministers of BiH to decide on a seasonal ban on imports of certain agricultural products’; Appointment of a member of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications, material number: 01,02-29-1179/11 of 18.11.2011 and appointment of members of the Management Board of the Public Broadcasting Service from the Serbian and Croatian people (rank List of BiH Communications Regulatory Agency), material number: 01,02-50-19-1150/12 of 04.10.2012; 18. Appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the Serb and Bosniak people, material number: 01-50-19-712/12 of 12.06.2012. – List of candidates of the Board of Elections and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH (rescheduled appointment at the 30th session of the House of Representatives, held on 21 June 2012.; 19. Appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the Croatian people, material number: 01-50-19-1239/12 of 07.11.2012. – List of candidates of the Committee for the Selection and appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH; 20. Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH, material of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, issue: 01,02-34-1-728/12 of 06.11.2012; 21. Giving consent to ratifying the Central European Airspace Block Agreement, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01,02-05-2-1084/12 of 13/09/2012; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of the Convention for the Establishment of the European Communications Office (ECO) – drawn up in The Hague on 23 June 1993, as amended and supplemented in Copenhagen on 09 April 2002, the material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-1082/12 of 13/09/2012; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the Eighth Additional Protocol with the Constitution of the World Postal Federation, adopted in Geneva on 12 August 2008, and acts of the World Postal Union adopted in Geneva on 23 July 2008, material of the BiH Presidency, issue: 01.02-05-2-1081/12 of 13.09.2012; 24. Giving consent to ratifying the Finance Treaty between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank – Corridor Vc – second phase, BiH Presidency material, issue: 01,02-05-2-1199/12 of 24.10.2012; 25. Giving consent to the ratification of the Amendment I to the Finance Treaty concluded between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Investment Bank on 26 March 2007 in Sarajevo – Road Rehabilitation in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (FI 23.924), BiH Presidency material, issue: 01.02-05-2-1200/12 of 24.10.2012. So that's how we start working on this agenda. 6 We move to the point of one agenda, Ad. 1. Election of deputy chairman/president of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives from the Bosniak people At the 34th session of the House, held on 19 September 2012, as a item of the agenda, was a discharge from the post of current Deputy Chairman/President of the Parliamentary House of Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina Denis Bećirović and the appointment of Deputy Chairman/President of the Parliamentary House of BiH. At the 35th session, held in 23.10.2012, the House was relieved of the duty of distinguished representative Denis Bećirović and adopted the conclusion that the election of the deputy chairman/president of the Bosniak House of Representatives will take place at the next House session. I would like to point out that the vote on the proposed candidates will take place immediately, and if we choose the first Vice-President/President, we will take a half-hour break in order for the services to do their job that is necessary. So, any suggestions? Dear Representative Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12182	Dear Chairman, Deputy Chairman, I warmly welcome you all and wish for successful and productive work at today's session. On behalf of the SDP Club, we propose a member of the SDP Club Mr Denis Bećirović. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12183	Thank you. So we have a proposal. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I'm opening a debate on this proposal. There's no record of a hearing. We approach the vote on the SDP Club President's proposal to elect Mr Denis Bećirović as the first deputy chairman of the Bosniak people's presidency. Prepare to vote. Vote now. 7 I find that most votes, with 26 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 8 abstentions, with both entity majority, Mr Denis Bećirović was elected the first deputy chairman/president of the Parliamentary House of BiH. And as I said in my announcement that we would take a half-hour break, and my colleague Bećirović, on behalf of himself and, I hope, congratulate you all on your choice. [[PAUZA]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to take your seats, proceed with the session. We're moving on to the second item of the agenda, Ad. 2. Confirmation of Bosnia and Herzegovina Council of Ministers' Decision on appointment of ministers and deputy minister in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12186	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Before I start the discussion on this agenda point, I would ask you to let us know what was going on, so we waited here for at least 40 minutes, all of us representatives here in the O.R., one or two colleagues, one of them is the vice president of the House of Representatives. I think it's a practice that shouldn't be happening in the future, and the least we deserve is for you to tell us what we've all been waiting for in this number for those 40 minutes. I don't think this should go away without an answer. And when it comes to the discussion, so the SDA, of course, will talk about it later, but it is our position, so we will vote against the appointment of these ministers for a number of reasons, and I want to talk about these reasons now. You see, the SDA as one of the strongest, certainly the strongest Bosnian-Herzegovina political party after local elections, is the opposition and we will vote against ministers, but in the structure of ministers there will be eight positions that the SDA voted for. So we will have the Council of Ministers to vote against two members of the Council of Ministers, but in the Council of Ministers they continue to exist and do their job to eight members of the Council of Ministers voted for by the SDA. And it's a whole new situation that we have now in BiH. And I did not for no reason, when it came to replacing ministers from the SDA, propose that the chairman of the Council of Ministers make a fine offer of resignation, return the mandate to the Presidency, as a new parliamentary majority is being made and then we would have a full council of ministers resulting from the new parliamentary majority. This way, without the BiH Presidency's decision, which gives the mandate to the chairman of the Council of Ministers, with the votes of a political party that has become or has already become an opposition, with the replacement of ministers from the SDA, we will have ten eight positions in the Council of Ministers and only two for which there will be no SDA. So, I pointed out this to say that what is done is completely illogical and I don't think this is based either on the BiH Constitution and that, in this way, other than the mandate, BiH, so this is the BiH Presidency, brought into this position in which it is. When it comes to the new parliamentary majority, I think BiH is completely needlessly brought into a state of crisis in April or May, following a difficult establishment of the Council of Ministers in February of this year and instead of dealing with several months on the European road and NATO through BiH, by meeting the conditions that the country has on the road, we are dealing with ourselves. And how do we deal with ourselves? The SDP and SBB broke the political bloc that was established in this country after the 2010 elections, which was of great benefit to BiH and which could make a big deal in BiH. And after the bloc, the bloc in which it was SDA, was broken, conditions for the establishment of a new parliamentary majority began. That's what Mr. Živković was completely open about here at the 9th floor. So as a result of these conditions, the SDP and the HadZ agreements supported by the SBB were created, they said they did not sign but supported, apparently. And then there was an agreement between the SDP and the SNSD and both agreements supported six days ago in Mostar. What is the result of these agreements? What trail and what is the new parliamentary majority being established on? The new parliamentary majority is in place, if we look at an analysis of these, if we analyse these agreements, that the Federation of BiH from the Canton Federation is transformed into a Federation of Peoples. To value the country's citizens' votes and to correct the ethnic structure of the country's last census, which is totally unacceptable for democracy. We are given a dominant role, so the agreement is created in the dominant role of the House of Peoples in the election of members of the BiH presidency. That's the first agreement, as soon as it's spoken of. The second agreement is being traced to the collapse of the Central Bank of BiH, as 10% of reserves will no longer have to be given and kept in money but in papers. It's a path to destruction, and experts can speak better than I do, because I'm not an expert in the Central Bank area. Electrotransmitters are used to charge the budget instead of in the development of electrotransmitters, five years before it is prescribed by law. A judicial system in BiH is collapsing. It is not only about putting the prosecution under political control, which is evident, but it is about the collapse of the BiH judiciary system. We fought hard in 2002, 2003 and 2004 to choose all judges and prosecutors of all BiH courts in one place, when it comes to the judiciary system in BiH. Now it's breaking. Instead of reform going towards strengthening this, to secure a specific budget for these institutions, we have a completely reverse, completely reverse process that I don't know where it's going to take. The Central Election Commission is collapsing, the Counting Centre is practically destroyed, so it is abolished and the lists are being fooled. Instead of going to further open the list, to allow citizens not only to vote for individual candidates within a political party, but to vote for candidates of different political parties, this was supposed to be BiH's path, we close the lists, strengthen the leaders of political parties. And that's a move that's directly against democracy. These few facts, for one agreement and for another, which established this parliamentary majority in which it is not, thank Bog it is not SDA, are therefore facts that point to the conclusion that this is not good for BiH. And this is bad for BiH and we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12187	I would like to thank the esteemed representative, Šefik Džaferović. Let me just directly answer the question that's been referred to, here I guess. So we were late to continue the session because a number of key MPs were late, and they have an opportunity to respond, if they think so. The second thing, when I took the floor to say, so if it is precedent that the new Council of Ministers will have ministers who supported the SDA, which is no longer part of the parliamentary majority, then it is not the first precedent. Before that, he was precedentd when a member of parliament's majority voted against the budget, and the future member of the parliamentary majority supported the budget. Thank you very much. Replica, the esteemed representative Milorad Živković. 10
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12188	I thank the chairman. My fellow Members and fellow Members, chairman of the Council of Ministers, ministers, deputies, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to say that in our morning delays, we've disrupted all of our schedules that we had individually in meetings that were already agreed and I don't see any problem being late for a meeting that I had to postpone. I apologize to all those who felt that my presence was necessary to open this item of the agenda, because according to the Rules of Procedure you could open this item of the agenda and without me, means to all those who waited for me and felt that one of the members of the College should wait for this point to be opened. On the other hand, it is unsatisfactory to answer questions that concern only predicting what will happen. Let me remind my colleagues from the U.S. that they said that we from the RS don't want to fill the Council of Ministers, that we don't want to fill out a member's Kolegijum, here we come from just insinuating. We are telling our colleagues from the SDA that today's agenda point is to confirm the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and to discuss the proposals that are proposed, not the agreement that is yet to come here in front of Members' benches and to discuss each individual point of this agreement, if we could talk about proposals concerning the Central Bank, the Election Law, public procurement, etc., etc., to return business to the agenda point and to say what they have against the proposed candidates who are here and to let us also explain our reasons why we want to support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12189	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12190	Very short. I think my esteemed colleague Džaferović's discussion went completely wrong. As the chairman and chairman stressed, we know what the agenda point is, but there is no problem talking about other current political issues, including the agreement. But it is a problem if we comment on it in a way that doesn't even resemble the content of the agreement. And if we're attacking things that aren't exactly what we're presenting, and if I go one step further, it's a particular problem if you're attacking some of the things that you were up to yesterday and I'm sure you'd also support that you're part of the parliamentary majority. Let's say, when we talk about open and closed lists, we fully signed the 2010 SDA position, so that document of yours on closed lists, including the explanation you gave. So we took that document and put it without a single subtracted comma. But it's not acceptable for you today. Removal of the Counting Centre, so that's misinformation. And we said a few times, you don't cancel the main count center and I don't explain it to you right now, and I think you know what it's about. When we talk about elektroprenos, so we agreed on a series of steps in the same way that the Federation government supported and voted for by all the ministers from the SDA, including the Secretary-General. So nothing's changed, not a word. 11 So, yes, I invite you not to politicize some things, not a problem all this will come into parliamentary procedure, we will discuss each of the topics individually. And finally, if I understood you correctly, you supported eight ministers who make up the Council of Ministers. I suppose you'll continue to support those eight ministers. You will not support two ministers and a deputy. But as far as I know I'm counting in total, you will continue to support the Council of Ministers, continuing to support these eight that you have supported. And I think it's state-of-the-art, and I really welcome it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12191	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12192	Well, I'm just going to take a brief look at what part of my colleague Džaferović criticised, and as regards the agreement between the SDP and the HDZ, which has an intensities, at least as far as HDZ is concerned, that with those, that the norm written in the Constitution that BiH is three equal constituent peoples and all citizens who live in it, in practice of life, so that these three peoples and all the citizens who live in it are truly equal, so that there is no dominant over one another, that there is no choice of representatives of one nation by another people, etc., etc. I have so far believed that, at least at the principle level, every well-intentioned politician, a political entity in BiH has nothing against the true equality of the people and of all citizens living in BiH. It seems to me that what my colleague Džaferović said to me is a denial of that belief, so I will ask a direct question – is BiH as a state three equal constituent nations acceptable to the SDA, assuming that these three people are really equal in rights and obligations or is it acceptable only as a paper definition, assuming that practice is going as it has so far? And that means that the representatives of one nation are elected, and that there are institutional mechanisms to do it all the time, from another people to revote, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12193	Thank you. Honorable representative Mirsad Đugum, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12194	Dear President, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, colleagues, colleagues, dear guests. I would only react here to Mr Džaferović's findings that SDP and SBB broke the coalition. This is an incorrect finding because the coalition broke the SDA from the other 5 coalition partners that were in the current government, which is the reason for the failure to fulfil their commitments by an agreement between the six parties that have made up the coalition majority in this Parliament so far. And absolutely SBB in all its efforts and actions so far in this House, and in other parliaments, it has been maximumly constructive and maximumly worked to solve all problems both at the federal and state level and absolutely the thesis does not stand, but Mr Džaferović is aware that you have rejected the budget, that the team has violated your agreement and that it was simply the reason for the shooting of the coalition that you were in until a few months ago. 12 The second thing, illogically, is an absolutely illogical finding on closed lists, which is the proposal in fact to the SDA from before a certain time. There are other things we should talk about, but I think there's an absolute theme here about ministers and we're voting on ministers and if there's anyone to ask a question or anything else, and this part I think we went absolutely wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12195	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12196	Here, and I welcome everyone. I will not talk about constitutional nations, coalitions, fives, sixes, but I will try to talk about the Council of Ministers' decision to appoint two ministers and one deputy. So, as a member of the Commission to prepare for the appointment of these two ministers and deputies, I did not support the recommendation that this decision be confirmed here today for reasons very correctly transmitted in the opinion delivered here to the MPs on the benches. So we stay with those reasons and at this part of the session, so we simply won't support that decision for the reason it's not our job, we're the opposition in continuity for the past two years and that's how it's going to stay. Of course I'll take the opportunity and a few sentences to say. Hopefully, that is, we hope, that the time of this composition and the transfer will be the season that is over, and that these two years that we have left, two years are all we have left, unlike the two previous ones that went into the wind, and when I have expressed my concern that we will mention for the two years, that is, this term in 2006 to 2010 for good, I was severely attacked and told that I am saying that some of the curses are spoken. We will today request an analysis of the first two years of 2010-2012, 2006-2008 and you will see the facts. So, I sincerely hope that these other two years, because it's in the interest of all of us and us as opposition, will be far better. I also hope that the Council of Ministers, in the new composition of this Parliament, will offer a programme of work, i.e. to tell us what it will do, what it intends to do in the next two years. I remind you, on several occasions, I was saying that the current assembly, the current Council of Ministers' meeting, was practically working on a work programme created by the Council of Ministers of old. You know what old ones? The one from 2006 to 2010, which was a year in some technical mandate. Here, therefore, with these wishes and hopes of course we consider this act important today for the state, because it is very important for us to have a complete College, it is very important for us to have a complete Council of Ministers, but our position is the position of the opposition and we will remain on that background and continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12197	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, debate. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12198	Gentlemen chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the council, distinguished guests. It is indisputable that, here for two years, the SDA was part of a parliamentary majority that was made on the basis of a political agreement that was in force. And of course, this is the answer to one of my colleagues, we couldn't accept being a SDP satellite and implementing their party-cadrovic ideas and intentions, and because of that, here we are today in opposition. Today, the SDA is a state-level opposition. This must be a clear and loud message sent to the public to know, because we do not want all the failures that will follow, I am asking Bog not to be, I would not want to be again accused of the SDA, because for all that is good, the newly formed parliamentary majority and the Council of Ministers will be responsible, and of course what is wrong will also be yours. But I would like the SDA to be, in the coming period, a still state-of-the-art, constructive political option that will support all good projects and good legal solutions that will make life easier for BiH citizens. But that's why we need to have a few explanations. In the first row of the mandate, namely the chairman of the Council of Ministers, who received the mandate on the basis of a political agreement by the previous six political parties. I'm interested in what is the further course, where is this Council of Ministers going, not to say a different term? Is that just changing two ministers and one deputy, or is that a change of political course? Is BiH still fast on the way to Euro-Atlantic integration, or might something be different? Because as far as I can see, some of the political leaders from this newly formed parliamentary majority advocates demilitarisation of BiH. Is that out of NATO's way of BiH? It's our turn to know, it's our turn to know. Here, we are responsible representatives, and we want to convey that attitude to the public and, of course, to those whom we represent. The other thing, is it a whole new Council of Ministers policy or is it the same policy that it was before just changing personally two ministers and one deputy? What's further, what are the projections of economic policy? Is this still a budget framework signed by our federal prime minister with other members of the Fiscal Council or does something change? It's our turn to know. Here, I'm not asking for that secret part of the political agreement between some political leaders, but we're looking for an explanation as representatives, as responsible people, like those who should maybe tomorrow support some of these legal solutions that hopefully come in the package maybe already at the next session of the House of Representatives. Of course, I want as a responsible representative to know if BiH citizens should be concerned if they have given up on the NATO road to BiH. What's our security situation going to be? Is this really leaving the citizens of BiH and BiH as a state of some verse? That's why I expect answers, first of all, from the chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr Bevanda. Of course these answers are not shy but clear and loud and concrete, so that we know what to say to those we represent. Is economically projection that a single economic market is being created in BiH? Is there an even better future in BiH, if I may say so? Therefore, we want to know the answers to these questions. It's obvious that we have one personnel renewal, the personnel potential that has, or I want to believe, I want to be an optimist, who has the potential to pull the state forward. And of course, here, so we don't have to guess what kind of human resources we're dealing with, we only have names and last names here, I didn't get the biographies of candidates, or appointed ministers and 14 deputies. So that we don't create a picture in my head about media inscriptions that are involved and what kind of personnel profiles we're dealing with would be correct if we got at least three sentences of biography of candidates, or appointed ministers, or deputy finance minister. So I ask you about this problem, no matter what your haste, to approach a little more seriously and to actually have all these elements so that, as a responsible state-run party, we might give our vote for, here's a new composition of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, unless we get answers and biographies, our club will remain in a position to either be against or refrain for the abovementioned reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12199	I thank the honourable representative, Mr. Mehmedović. I just want to report that the Committee for the Selection of the Council of Ministers had the résumés of candidates and that, on the basis of these résumés and appointments, we issued a recommendation to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. But if you might still support these people, I would personally try to get your biographies in the meantime. Thank you very much. /Shortly interrupted video/ __________(?) You can see that we, too, are in a hurry to call ministers as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12200	Mr. Chairman, I know procedurally that you and the Council of Ministers have had a biography in the selection and appointment of the Council of Ministers, but this does not justify that we as representatives who are not members of that Commission do not have a biography today. Therefore, I ask you very seriously to approach this business, because it is serious things and serious resolutions, here is the Ministry of Security, the Ministry of Defence, and here is the Ministry of Finance, which is three key resolutions. Or perhaps the importance of these resors has fallen by getting the SDA out of this new parliamentary majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12201	Thank you. Dear Representative Asim Sarajlić, the debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues, my colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. So, there's no dilemma here, we don't need SVs, if we need me to copy to my colleagues, we'll vote against it. And of course, the political picture in BiH is changing in this term a little more often, a little faster. Mr. Bećirović had no support last time, today he has and it is quite legitimate and it is quite justified. I mean, here's all the stories about legitimate representatives of peoples, parties, regions and so on. They're falling in the introduction. We here as an opposition, the SDA Club, will keep an eye on all the next activities of the new 15 Council of Ministers, although, I agree with the Šefik, there are people in it we have given support to today, we will not give these. We have democratic means both in this House and the House of Peoples, and we will behave accordingly. But all that is on the European path and all that is a step forward in the MAP in NAT, the resolution of perspective property, the resolution of the Sejdić-Sejdić-Finci verdict, the resolution of other tasks that lie ahead of this House or the House of Peoples, the SDA will always give its support. And regardless, here we are today not fighting for our positions because we no longer have our members in the Council of Ministers, some other partners are coming, it's quite legitimate, it's quite justifiable. Who is a Bošnjak or who is a Hrvat about it, I say already after two years of the election, more than two years have passed, there is no and no matter what is more debate. But, of course, all future activities of this House and the Council of Ministers will determine the position of the SDA and, I say, everything that is good for the state of BiH and good for all its peoples and citizens of the SDA will always support it. We have our principled position and it will be that we cannot support these candidates in this way and hopefully, here we are, and without the SDA, the new six that will find the strength and capacity to bring this country forward. I wish, but based on past experiences and all that, here's the rest behind us this year, God damn it. There, on behalf of the SDA so much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12203	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12204	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I have a need to look very briefly at a few details that have been presented in the discussions. First of all, Mr. Chairman. I would ask you not to speak to SDA MPs in an unworthy way as you sit at that table in the future. Because, your comment, that if we're going to vote for these ministers that you're going to make an effort to get us biographies, is an unworthy attitude towards seven MPs in this House. You have no right to do so, this is the High House of directly elected MPs and I ask you to behave in the manner prescribed by the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this House. You are obliged to deliver to us, if any of us requires a biography, immediately, so all documents, not react in the way you react. The second thing, when it comes to the SDA vote on Budget, you Budget have no SDA votes and we all have a Budget without a vote from the SDA. But after today's vote in BiH, we will have eight members of the Council of Ministers with SDA votes and two without SDA votes, with two diametrically opposite situations that cannot be compared and cannot be justified by what I am talking about in your argument that you have highlighted. It is true that the SDA in the elections, unfortunately, I speak completely of it, before the 2010 elections supported closed lists, none of us hides it. I was against closed lists back then. And thank Bog we in the U.S.A. can conduct a dialogue and in that dialogue is our definitive position that closed lists are not the solution. I was against closed lists back then. That's what I'm hoping, he knows, and this is definitely the SDA's attitude. And I think it's wrong to close the lists and it's the opposite of democracy and don't justify the abolition of the Counting Centre, the main center of this argument that the SDA was once for the prisoners. It was before the 2010 election, that's right. There is a letter in that 16 Commission. I was against it and many people were against it. We've been conducting a dialogue and our final position is not to close the lists. And it's not about what's going on right now. That attitude has been corrected much earlier and much earlier. And I'm saying it out loud here, there's no hiding. As far as the rest of things are concerned, so it's quite clear, this is about the program. The programme exists, the programme was verified in Mostar two days ago on the basis of two agreements that are harmful to BiH. I'm convinced that's what I'm worried about. And finally, the SDA will support everything that is in favour of this country, everything that is in favour of its European path. We will not be an opposition to the BiH state, we will not be an opposition to the European and NATO path of BiH, but we will be a fierce opposition to all attempts to collapse to reach the level of reforms within BiH. I want to say it very clearly here today, and these agreements indicate such possibilities. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12205	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The replica to Mr. Đugum would be inappropriate not to respond to what Mr. Đugum said. Mr. Đugu, both today and so tomorrow, the SDA will not support the budget that destroys the financial structure of the BiH state, the Budget which is insufficient to finance the BiH state institutions, the Budget that is at the expense of the BiH state, the Budget which is in the rank of the Budget of the Sarajevo Canton and which in such a way is insufficient to finance the existing institutions of the BiH state, and not to talk about the process of building up institutions, which at this point are missing the state of BiH, so that it can meet its obligations on the European path. The SDA will never support a budget that reduces funds for the financing of the BiH state's security, intelligence and defence structures, a budget that has not planned for the Earth Museum, a budget that is not and is not. And finally, the budget that's been frozen for the next few years. We expected the Party for a Better Future to support us in these intentions to prevent the collapse of the state and the collapse of the BiH state institutions. But here, now we see that they waited from the end for us, as they say, to make a mistake, to jump in, but here, we see them continue to tear down the BiH state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12207	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Magazinović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12208	I have to fix the wrong quote for the second time. Although it's not today's subject, but here's what you've imposed, so it's not going to be abolished by any proposal from the Main Counting Centre. And I pray, here's twice I've said it 17, I hope it's enough and that for the third time, here I won't have a replica, but that one of my colleagues won't have to replicate. Also, since I have time for replication, I'll only read you a few attitudes when it comes to the Electoral Law you're talking about. He says this - lately a particular political party, NGOs and individuals have expressed concern over the possibility of adopting a proposal to amend the electoral law under which closed lists would be applied instead of the previous half-opened ones in the elections. First of all, we must stress that closed lists are democratic fluids that are applied with different variations in most EU countries and the democratic world. In addition, we would like to state here the arguments that the SDA Presidency has set for closed lists. The first argument – ensuring the representation of all constituent peoples and others in all BiH parliaments. Ensuring representation of women and young people, who, according to the current provisions of the Election Law, rarely have the opportunity to be elected to the benches. Ensuring equal territorial representation to multi-member electoral units. Ensuring a satisfactory qualification structure. Preventing electoral fraud by writing preferences, by election committees, says – (in these elections, the CEC punished 222 members of the electoral commissions). The SDA emphasises that both on the closing of the list and on whether the mandate should belong to an individual or party will be defined for that practice that prevails in the countries of European parliamentary democracy. We also resolutely reject certain statements and comments that say the SDA wants to eliminate some of the potential candidates who are allegedly not willing to run the current lists. So this is not the position of any of the parties that have made the agreement, but is the position of the Presidency, __________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12209	I'd be begging the MPs not to make money from the bench.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12210	The U.S. Presidency. And I wouldn't mind talking, discussing any solution, where we have different attitudes, so here, and this Central Bank, which you say you're not on your own, but I don't think it's right after this attitude of the SDA to respect someone for having the same attitude. I am sure, and I will end it because time is running out for me, that you are part of the parliamentary majority so that you are certainly the best promoter of the solutions agreed in the agreement. But since you're not, you're now the greatest critic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12211	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević, replica. 18
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12212	So very, very clear. Any agreement that means less inequality and no more equality can be harmful to BiH but on the contrary, can only be useful to this country and can only strengthen it and make it possible to make it self-sustainable. It's not just about this case. We have been witnessing lately that any attempt at a deal that necessarily implies compromises, compromises by all who participate, is mostly welcomed by a knife because such an ambience is created. They are expected to be knifed by political entities that did not participate in the agreement and are taking the stand in certain national corpuss for voters' votes. The knife is expected by the media, which, in our situation, is a public secret, mainly in the function of certain political entities, and also creates an ambience in which individual so-called. NGOs also choose their favorites, and then orchestrately participate in all this. Now in this case, by the SDA, one such attempt, one such attempt to come to a compromise solution, has been welcomed like this. But let's just remember the April package, let's remember the Prudo Agreement, let's remember some other agreements that were an attempt to step up towards a solution that would ensure equality for both the people and the citizens of BiH and make this country permanently self-sustainable, not to be on an infusion like unfortunately this time from Dejton to here on the infusion, always happened the same. I, here, am taking this opportunity to plead, to appeal to all of us to be more in the mood for agreements and compromises, which are necessary, in order not only to rhetorically, but to really travel the European path of BiH, because there is no European BiH without European, therefore democratic standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12213	Thank you. Honorable representative Mirsad Đugum, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12214	Thank you. I'd just like to answer Mr. Sokolović. When we voted on the budget, we were only responsible MPs on behalf of the citizens and the state of BiH. The role of the six was to arrange for Budgeto to adopt and implement it, not the opposition. Mr Sokolović, in this same place, on the day of the adoption of the Budget, you were asked five questions, the chairman, or the finance minister, and that was clear – do we have a census, do we have local elections, do we have an arrangement with the International Monetary Fund, do we have construction of border crossings towards Croatia, and do we have a European path? On all these issues, the finance minister from the Council answered that it was all stiff. It was our responsibility to vote on the budget and absolutely not to allow any process that is moving towards the EU to be braked. That's one Closed List, you already said the closed lists were your proposal, so you pulled them out. But also remember that I have mentioned twice a member of the 48th that has been holding BiH back from moving forward towards the EU because you have braked the census on this one. And then overnight you changed and here 19 of us convinced that article 48 is absolutely irrelevant because it has been regulated in entity laws. Do you often change your mind? At this point, I've listed three things where you've changed your mind.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12215	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12216	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. In the first part, I had a replica of Mr. Magazinović, so he came out, so I waited for him to come back, but now I have little Mr. Đuguma. So I have two replicas. I'll get Mr. Đugum first. So, the SDA was against the Budget that the Council of Ministers proposed. We were against the fiscal framework as proposed because the SDA did not participate in the fiscal framework. Our proposal was a certain amendment, a correction of the budget. And we're not going back to those things, those amendments were the order of 50 million marks. For 50 million marks, which were supposed to strengthen certain institutions, and time has shown there in some fires, that the military, whether it had fuel or not, we have come to a situation to ask Parliament to support these amendments. You didn't understand us, and that's why we were against the Budget. And fellow Magazinović, in the first wave, it seemed to me or probably was a failure, he was an experienced politician, when he said he had prescribed from the SDA and I see that he was well quoted and read the views of the SDA that were offered at that time in the debate, it is not good that one serious party as SDP prescribes. Don't overwrite, have your attitude. You're a party that has its position, so at least you're talking and don't cheat and it's not good to cover behind the SDA and the federal government where the ministers made the electricity transfer decision. So when you need a decision, when you need an excuse, then you're covering behind the SDA, and when you don't need a decision, you're criticizing the SDA. You must be principled. I believe you are principled. Here, I appreciate my colleague Saša Mgazinović, but these other colleagues told me they were a little better with him, so I was told that I was replicating and I had to replicate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12217	The word has the chairman of the House of Representatives, Mr Božo Ljubić. Here you go. It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12218	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that I'm rejecting lunch that in any way I intended to degrade seven SDA agents by my intervention because, here's the president of the club actually said that he didn't need a resume. But regardless, if I have offended anyone or felt offended, I apologize. 20 The explanation that the SDA did not vote against the Budget violate any agreement does not stand. A six-way deal was violated, which assumed, of course, that the ruling paraliamentary majority supported Budget as the most important document in a year. And as for the Mostar meeting, so I want to, here with full responsibility to argue that this meeting in Mostar, that is, its content and signed statement and results have most strongly re-affirmed possible BiH as a country of three constituent nations. And here, I am now expressing my faith from this place that the positive effects and results of this meeting in Mostar will give this meeting an epithet of the bridge agreement, because it is actually the strongest than any meeting before, but the domestic leaders, without the international community's judges, re-affirmed what is the spirit of BiH, which is the country in the first place, three constituent equal peoples, and then of course all its citizens and others who do not declare themselves members of the constituent peoples. And when I took the word for the replica, however, here I am, as chairman, asking that we return to the agenda point, which is, that is, the decision to confirm three members of the Council of Ministers, so two ministers and one deputy. Thank you very much. The esteemed representative of Ismeta Dervoz, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12219	Mr. Chairman, members of the College, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, guests. I thank you, Mr. Chairman, for calling back on the agenda, because we've been thinking about whether we should maybe make a business remark about what we've been hearing in the last half hour or more of the time here in this Parliamentary Assembly. Mr. Fazlić and I have, I mean correct relations as he does with Mr. Magazinović, so since Mr. Đugum no longer has a chance of replica, then I will ask Mr. Fazlić to return what he has just said. So you've convinced us here in this Parliamentary Assembly that the census can be executed from the budget reserves. We have stenograms and we can remind you of that. Another thing that's here, one question that's been asked two or three times. Eight ministers voted for by the SDA and two who are allegedly not going to vote, because we still can't see it, we haven't seen it, because we can't get to that stage in today's work. What is the value of the votes of the U.S.A. and what is the value of all our voices? Are regular, acceptable and important only those ministers who are confirmed by the SDA or only those who come from the ranks of the SDA? The democratic right of all of us is to have our own opinion and opinion on any proposed official, but it is also our obligation to respect the majority's decision. For the U.S., it was logical until yesterday, while they were part of that majority. Today, obviously nothing in BiH is good anymore because the SDA is in opposition. Mr. Mehmedović asks if something's changing? We hope, Mr. Mehmedović. We sincerely hope it changes, because it's high time it starts to change. For 20 years, nothing has changed for the better in this country, so – yes, we are announcing a change in BiH's better future. 21 I kindly ask you not to disabling the value of our vote in this Parliamentary Assembly, all of us who have confirmed those eight ministers and who today will also confirm these ministers who, we are sure, will do their duty in the interest of the citizens of BiH. And just one more remark. Biography, Mr. Mehmedović, I am somehow convinced that you know them by heart and that you probably do not like what it says in these biographies, because you know in what way both professional, so determined and so dedicated people will do to prosperity and work in BiH that the Council of Ministers will get a new momentum and that finally some problems in BiH that solve people who have such biography can be solved. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12220	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12221	Thank you. Dear Chairman, co-chairing, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, MPs, guests, I welcome you all together. I didn't want to, and I didn't want to answer, but first of all, I want to express my dissatisfaction and also support for my predecessors, or colleagues from the U.S.A., who have already declared how we will behave today when it comes to voting on new candidates for ministers of this kind of importance, such as the Ministry of Security, Defence and the part of the finance. What I would like to point out, my colleague on the right, Amir Fazlić, he is nice in his own way to say to him in a very, politically nice way that he believes that there are people with attitudes, with principles and so on, I would like to say as a younger politician but also an economist to say that there are very few principled and people with an attitude, and this proves that a large number of SDP people have left. First of all, Mr Željko Komšić, who was very principled, but if it were the SDP, she would definitely not allow a man like Željko Komšić to leave with such a principle and with such an attitude as he owned it. I don't want to talk about others, but I think we're also witnessing that in the SBB, as a partner of the new SDP, our people, who we've either driven out of the SDA party or excluded, are fortunately our people. And I really don't have anything to say to the SBB, so Bog help them. As for my colleague, who I have one sympathy for, I must say, since we are on various committees, but definitely, colleagues with such a list, and since we are together at the Transport and Communications Commission, look at 15-17 lists for three people on the Management Board with a description of who they are and what they are, and for three such large functions as these ministers, I have definitely not read avaz for a long time, but I've heard of Mr. Radončić, but the biography would be good. But for these other two, I definitely, I didn't hear, and now I don't know who they are, or what they were, or what they were dealing with, and eventually they'll be in extremely responsible positions. It would be good to get their biography on at least three lists, if not 15. As far as I'm concerned, the Council of Ministers has kind of been in politics for two years, and at this point, if this is the case, I'm definitely counting on re-activated by the company because it looks like I'm going to lose my bread. As a 25-year-old businessman, but in politics, in this 22-instretched state, I can imagine how ordinary people who expect such a tall home and such respected people to solve their problems. It looks like all we do here is solve the problems of some people and the way it's meant to be. First of all, I see that the Council of Ministers has not discussed the issue of succession for two years, there has been no debate on the issue of borders, nor on the issue of economics, human rights. Here's a question and security, but also a defense. I really wish you...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12222	I'm asking the honourable representative to take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12223	Eevo, I really want this election to go away no matter how this election goes, I guess it will, but certainly without a representative, without members of the SDA party. Let it go, but I can really say that we will be large in some way oppositionists of their ideas that are going to harm BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12224	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12225	Well, I don't know if it's polite to replicate the lady, but here's my colleague just to say that I've been bringing amendments here to the SDA Club, that the SDA wasn't against the census, that the SDA was against the budget set up with those solutions and that we were looking for certain repairs. If a colleague has only noticed, she has only noticed the list of dreams as some accent of my discussion I am sorry, there have been very good amendments, very good amendments that I think you have been in the soul for these amendments, but I know firm political attitudes make you choose to vote. Here's a little replica. I hope my colleague doesn't get mad.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12226	Thank you. All the representatives here are equal, ladies and gentlemen, so if the discussion deserves a replica by the assessment of the representatives, of course everyone can be replicated. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12227	First of all, I'd like to replicate to you, and you said at first that you were waiting for some very important representatives. It's obvious not all of them are important, and now you're saying they're all equal, so you have to sort it out in college. I'd like to rephrase to my esteemed colleague, Dervoz, because she was in her address, addressing me directly, which I don't think was absolutely necessary, because the discussions of each of her colleagues and 23 colleagues were addressing all of us, not me personally. But since it is so, I did not ask for answers from her, but I asked the Council of Ministers for answers from the chairman – what kind of perception of the future of BiH in a political sense, in an economic sense, whether it is a detour, whether it is a change of course, whether it is a turning back, to hear, because I would love to support here a new minister, but I need to know what I support, I can't remember. It is the right of each of us to express its views, of course not insulting anyone, but forgive me for not seeing the reasons why exactly the distinguished colleague Dervos is talking to me, unless he wants to strengthen his position within his political party in front of the boss here, it will certainly be, probably, welcome in the next shift of Mr. Denis Bećirović, so instead of being elected chairman. About the future, the economic future of BiH, I certainly appreciate the opinion of competent people, but not those whose matter is not close. But if the better economic future of BiH's citizens is already being prepared, it seems to me that a Council of Minstar's decision has already been made to award 2.5 million to the Banja Luka Clinical Centre. It seems to me that this is a transfer of jurisdiction from the state to entities or, of course, I don't mind, because it's a means to treat the citizens of BiH, or if it's part of some agreement of this new parliamentary majority, maybe the Tuzla Clinical Centre for the Heart needs 2.5 million or maybe a million, or maybe 500 thousand to treat some citizens of Tuzla and the Federation and the whole of BiH perhaps better. But our right to biography as an agent thinks they're perfectly fine, and that's a principle question, that's not the question, so we know all of our candidates for ministers and the Deputy Finance Minister. Of course we've heard about these people and especially from the media and so on. But we'd like to know if it's about younger candidates, older candidates, because for God's sake, it's a perfectly reasonable and logical question if we want to give the younger staff a chance. I expect Mr. Radončić to be a younger candidate than his predecessor, that Mr. Hakija Osmić is younger than his predecessor and so on. I expect it. Here, this is a positive what a lady goes for, is proposed as deputy finance minister. But please don't deny us principled law. It is not a matter of whether we know each other, but it is principled that we get biographies and even property records, so that no one will say tomorrow – eh Fahro Radončić is rich as a minister of security. No, he's been rich before, yeah. So this is a purely principled question, it's not even a question of whether we know each other or not. Therefore, I ask you to conduct the discussion in the future.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12228	Time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12229	to everyone, not to anyone personally speaking to anyone else.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12230	Thank you. Dear Representative Denis Bećirović, deputy chairman, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12231	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honored guests, respected candidates for ministers and deputy ministers, respected members of the Council of Ministers. 24 I think it would be good within this item of the agenda for us to return to the agenda and to make it very clear that all that we have heard so far from the MPs of the SDA can simply say that they have not presented any serious arguments today why we, within this item of the agenda, would not support the choice of two ministers and deputy ministers. That this is thus the testimony here and the last discussions that have been intonated in such a way that they obviously do not have the necessary amount of seriousness. The SDA has been in power since 1995, so from Dayton to today, from 17 years of age, 15 years old, and we understand that it's not easy after 15 years, here today at the state level that someone is withdrawing into opposition. In those 15 years, the SDP was not the only coalition partner of the SDA, it was the GDS, today the GDS is no longer here, there were liberals, there are no more liberals in parliament, there was a Party for BiH, it was reduced to two MPs. The same fate was intended for the SDP, however, is no longer going by. Being in a position and playing the opposition and everything so persistent 17 almost years after Dejton is an unsustainable policy and such a policy has come to an end. Mr. Mehmedović said at one point what we all gave up, so he listed a whole set of questions. I guess when he talked about it, he thought of these agreements so far signed, so on the basis of that, everything that is not in those agreements is stated that we gave up. If we follow that logic, then we can openly say that before the SDP and SNSD agreements were reached and the other agreements followed, the SDA signed one agreement. I don't have it here, but it would be nice to look at it, see what you signed. Under your agreement, there is no NATO Pact, there is no European integration, there is no economy, there is no reform, there is nothing, you know what is in your agreement, is this an agreement for the future that you were prepared to implement, you 7 of the 28 Federation MPs. You 7 were ready, and in this agreement the only two important things are the first – it should be replaced by Zlatko Lagumdžija, the second – Denis Bećirović and no programme, no reforms. Did you offer that to this country? Is that what you're talking about today at Parliament's session? You're talking about the budget, so we still don't know what happened when it came to the budget, the ministers from the SDA, here the chairman of the Council of Ministers, voted in the Council of Ministers for the budget, MPs from the SDA did not vote, those who voted were replaced, and those who did not, are the other MPs. It looks a little paradoxical, but it's about the consistency of your policy. And not to mention these discussions and stories that people have gone from SDP at all, do people in the SDP have opinions. The SDP people have very clear and precise views. And if I were to speak to you now from the SDA who left all the SDA, that would not have exhausted that list from Muhamed Filipović, Adil Zulfikarpašić, Haris Silajdžić, Safet Halilović, to many, many people. Is that some argument you're making here? Don't worry about the SDP too much, you take care of the SDA and watch how to be a constructive opposition in the next period.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12232	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, replica. common discussion
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12233	No microphone 25 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12234	Just a moment, please, attention and order in the assembly, the president of the SDA Club Mr. Sarajlić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you and the first deputy, again in the chair today, to Mr. Denis Bećirović for giving us a brief look at the near political history of BiH, although I know that he also as a scientific worker has explored and a little deeper into BiH's history. But what I want to tell Denis Bećirović here, that whenever the SDA was in capacity, it was always more of a state, it wasn't a random passer-by, it wasn't the SDA that froze its political work, it wasn't the SDA in 17 years selling the potentials of the Drina River, it wasn't the SDA giving money to elektroprenos and it wasn't much of what you're not talking about today. And the SDA will still be there, any opposition, any position, will be there when the interests of the BiH state are to be protected and the rights of all peoples and citizens in it protected, so don't worry. Yes, the SDA has denied many parties, but this is our contribution to the democratic development of society in BiH. And in you when the leader says sits down half of them spread out, and it's not good for BiH. And what colleagues were talking about, you can't forget the fact that the front man of the 2010 campaign, Željko Komšić, who was the reason, is here with legitimate representatives of the Croatian people to protect their interests, to bring 300,000 votes to the SDP, today is not a member of that party and is sitting in the Presidency of this country. Is that a problem? We think that the SDP, and we hope that the SDP will actually come to a democratic deviation and that people there will start talking more freely, because dictatorship is not good in any system. And of course we from the SDA say, here we are without the SDA power, we will go and we will certainly, I say and repeat, support everything that is on the European path and everything that is progressing towards NATO. But we Bogamin't see any concrete solutions from the Banja Luka agreement, and we don't see any real solutions from Mostar anywhere. You know that 14 months after the October 2010 elections, we received the Council of Ministers, 14 months we needed six, and meetings throughout BiH, to receive the Council of Ministers. Now we have some new six, the Council of Ministers completed here today, and it's no problem at all. It's just that the problems, Denise, don't work out. Where are the five policies of the SDP today? Shall we go back to that for a little while today? So open letters all over the white world don't solve problems in our house, and today the problems are bigger than they were yesterday. And it's not, it's not a controversial political scene in BiH, there's known attitudes of both SDP and SDA, and we'll still be after today's session in those positions, but I'm wondering if there's going to be a two- or three-session majority that you weren't like last time, and today you are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12236	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12237	Thank you again, Mr. Chairman. I think this is the essential story that we are presenting here for reasons why in some way we want to paint a future way of functioning the new parliamentary majority. And again replica 26 to Mr. Đugum, because here, in some way through ours, not to mention the shooting, we are taking pictures of some important details which is why the SDA is not part of the new parliamentary majority right now. Well, then, Mr. Đugum, if it's the responsibility of citizens to cut salaries to members of the Armed Forces, to cut salaries to the SIPA members, the OSA, the Border Police, then I guess it's not BiH citizens, because we cut them off. And they are a very important link in strengthening the BiH state in the positions it is currently in. So here's my finding, they're not citizens. But it is the reason that the list, in essence you and the SDP accepted, and now I'm going to do a little animation for these colleagues from the RS who are still silent, you've actually agreed to blackmail from the RS to bring such a budget. So, you agreed to blackmail from the RS to have, which is what, here I ask my colleagues from the RS, do they care about the population list? So it turns out that's all the interest from the Federation, mostly SDP and SBB, is there going to be a list. Well, when you have things like that, then you don't accept blackmail, you just sit there and talk about it in the budget. And that's what the SDA wanted, to talk about that budget, to correct it in certain items, to be acceptable to the SDA, and when I say about the SDA, I'm talking about being acceptable to the citizens of BiH, and then we wouldn't be telling this story today. And that's why I'm saying you've been waiting out there somewhere in the corner for what's gonna happen, and you know well what SDP's blackmail through the foreign minister's position is already accepting blackmail from the RS to keep that foreign minister there where he is. So there was one set of blackmails, so the man respected it, so let's change it. So now a package of new blackmails, in which you gentlemen have now entered from the SBB, and then threatened again from the RS, will change it and then the man says – I accept that package. And when he accepts the third package, it's over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12238	Thank you. Dear Representative Adnan Bašić, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I don't know if old age is still appreciated in BiH, but it is a matter of circumstances that I am the oldest MP in this House, and I wouldn't want to abuse it, but listening to this discussion very carefully, I wonder if this is the one that I started with. Believe me, some situations are rainy again.). To be honest, I'd like to tell you a lot of bickering like this right now, this arousing passion, a fantasizing imagination can do anything. It's not nice to introduce ourselves in public like this if I'm not accidentally given Bog's hand in this session, believe me, it's not nice. The people are full, not just of us, but of all politicians in BiH, that should be said loudly and clearly. Maybe it's because of all of this, this particular discussion, we've gone one normal way, as one normal Parliament, as we normally do, and then, of course, when we get to a painful point for anyone who sits here, then we go to the width and to the depth and to the height. I expected my respected colleagues and colleagues to discuss the possibility of people scheduled to change ministerial posts at the BiH Council of Ministers. Does he have any objections, as the chairman said nicely and culturally, whether you have any suggestions, whether you're interested in something, whether you're interested in something, to see who they are, and what they are, and what they are, and that we simply go ahead with the vote afterwards. And we're on our way to Mark's contacts, and there's nothing that hasn't been said here today. And then what we're making is better off not giving a grade. I ask you to really return to what we are representatives of your people of Bosnia and Herzegovina in the largest legislative body of this country, it is our Parliament and that as a serious and sober, smart, intelligent and capable people we work and bring to the end of today's 27-session. Look what time it is, and we haven't even started doing our job yet. And that's saying something about us. Apropo of this, I'll stick to the agenda. I was sick of one finding, and many of them were here, I wouldn't say unprincipled, but inhuman for me, when he says, "Is this how two ministries are underestimated?" It's a little demeaning of our people, which we need today to confirm, which will be our ministers, immediately undermines their reputation, their education, their knowledge and experience, and immediately puts themselves on the full margin as some of the marginals came there. It is dear gentlemen an insult to human dignity if you do not know that expression and please do not do such things in this House. Every man has his human value, has his intellectual education, has his human charisma, has his career behind him, and I don't think they felt comfortable with these three candidates when they heard it. They should not be underestimated in this way, you can accept them or not accept them, but you have no right to demean them and underestimate them in advance. And people aren't even on duty yet, you're doing it uglyly. And finally, as an old man who loves his people and his wisdom, don't on my behalf please tell me in this House that you are more of a custodian for BiH than I am. Shame and shame on anyone who tells me that, tell someone else. I've paid too much for her and don't play with those things, please. And finally I say, from the folk experience of a beautiful, smart, intelligent, much smarter-looking person than many of us, the people are smart, I'll end up with one saying - anyone who loses has the right to be angry. But I will touch it, and there should be a man left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12240	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić, discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12241	Well, I don't have the right to a replica anymore, I've spent my time doing business, and I want to answer some findings as part of the discussion. I, when I replicated to my colleagues, forgot to mention here that my colleagues from the SBB were part of the amendment I proposed, and thank them for that, but the whole budget didn't go through, did it, so part of the amendment was supported. And here, I want to discuss a little bit about these 17 years of SDA authorities, and me and Denis have often fought down in the canton, politically fought and led polemics, and we've always been somehow, there was a position, I was also a position, and there's no need to react with a mime. But let me remind you gentlemen, so we have in BiH and the environment where we have a single power of 45 years, one concept of power and we're not, citizens support it, as long as citizens support it's democracy, here I am corrected by 30, since '43. So I see, I thank Mirza he understands because we used to run cantonal committees together, so I'm this... so it's the citizens, we've never gone to that concept since we've been in power, congratulating, when citizens support it's democracy, it's a democratic principle and we don't have anything to say. As for the appointment here, we are to return to the agenda, but gentlemen I remind you, we started this session somewhere at three o'clock, it's not our fault from the U.S.A., it's natural that 28 of such an important question is 45 minutes, so we would underestimate these ministers if we hadn't discussed them for at least an hour, but no one underestimates them, no one said an ugly word and no one would say...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12242	Excuse me, I would ask only the poisoners in the O.R. so that the representative can calmly conduct his debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12243	Thank you, Chairman, you won't move me, and my colleagues will listen. I want to say that we are the opposition and we are immediately at the beginning of the session, which was late, expressed our position that the SDA Club, the SDA as an opposition party, will not support it, nor do you convince us who is developing these discussions and accuses it of something else, normally that we have to replicate and defend ourselves. In that sense, when the shifts were made, our ministers were the only reason for the shift was to create a new parliamentary majority and I asked the chairman of the Council of Ministers - what is the reason, is there one reason? That's all the reason. And we understand it's been democratic, we respect it. Well, let us discuss here a little, too, talk about opening some topics. And look, we're not biographies like biographies, so far they've always been on a table of MPs, I know a little bit about some, I know a colleague from Brcko, all positive, everything, I know a little bit, but why don't you see what they've been through and what they've been doing and what they've done. Look, people, these are two very important ministries, even though we said it, it's not an insult. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12244	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12245	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the respected chairman of the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers. Replication to Mr. Džaferović. Justifiably, he may have reacted and asked a member of Mr. Živković's College why he was late, because he wants to know and the others want to know. Mr. Živković explained it and I'm not his patron, but here I want to know now, I want to ask the professional service – how much more of it has the right from the SDA and other parties that are leading the controversy today to speak, how much right it has to replicates. Well, you know how, we RS MPs can't be static and follow this for a few hours, we need to know how long this uncertainty will take to get us a little more liveliness into this, you know, we're always dynamic, we can't just watch this without our participation. But here, you see we didn't participate. So, can we get from the heart service how much longer this has, this is known to everyone, days, years ago, three years ago, four years ago, the change of one power, the other, they came, they went, here we go anyway. Thank you very much, just to get to know how many hours we're going to stay, so we don't get all wet on this one anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12246	I would like to thank the esteemed representative Jovičić. 29 All those who had discussed or replicated so far had the right to do so according to the Rules of Procedure. The truth of several replicas was over three minutes, but here it is my responsibility and their responsibility. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12247	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear members of the College, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, the chairman and members of the Council of Ministers, guests. They say, in my neighborhood, a chicken is never slaughtered for nothing, either she's sick or someone in the house is sick. Unfortunately, we often discuss here in vain and for nothing, without any arguments, very often wandering from the agenda point about how to use and how to cheer. And we always refer to the Rules of Procedure as it suits us, to the principles which, at that moment and in that situation, seem to suit us and then ask who's to blame. Normally, it's not us, it's someone else. And that's why I answered, first I put on my jacket, so I told the club president I wasn't wearing my jacket for free or I'd get out or I'd answer it. And I decided to take it. Who's to blame? Denis Bećirović, but not guilty, he was collateral damage to each other Denis in the Federal Parliament and since they replaced you from the SDA with your Denis you replaced their Denis here. That's the argument you made when you asked for the replacement of Denis Bećivorić. And you're calling for seriousness, you're calling for principle, you're calling for statehood, you're asking us to go faster and faster, and so on. Don't gentlemen, don't. Here, if you want to respect all of us sitting here. You're looking for résumés, or if I were to translate into other languages of the candidate's biography, whose confirmation we're expecting today, and that would be good, only if you asked for it, and when you supported the eight that you supported and the two that you supported. And then you were supposed to look for life, but you weren't looking for it, you weren't just looking for it because you were part of the parliamentary majority at the time, and just because it wasn't because it mattered to you today and then, I'm only talking about principles. We're talking about some things like they're not tied up, the SDA must be the same party when it works here and when it works in the Federation. And what principles are you talking about? You in the Federation have chosen unconstitutional authority, gentlemen dear, distinguished colleagues, distinguished friends, so you are, I am speaking to you because you are calling to principles today, you have chosen unconstitutional power. In that government you have your private ministers, your private ministers, because the Ministry of Displaced Persons and Refugees, the resolution minister who is from your party acts as if those funds from the budget were his private funds,... that. I asked a year ago – how are these funds being spent? I haven't got the answer yet. Because he doesn't think, he doesn't respect this institution where, from which he gets questions, because he's got the money there to infuse them like they're his. You run the Power Sector, so I guess this sector was in charge of the Elektroprenos arrangement.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12248	I'd just ask an esteemed representative if this were a replica, and he has the right to debate if he wants to continue.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12249	I have the right to debate, but this is all part of the replica, but here I won't, I won't go further and ask, so don't let some principles apply in the morning, and the other one in the afternoon. 30
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12250	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12251	Thank you. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. So we have before us a decision to appoint a minister and a deputy minister at the Council of Ministers. Mr. Bevanda, the chairman of the Council of Ministers, is the person I once again welcome. I am not satisfied with the work of the Council of Ministers and the chairman of the Council of Ministers until now, but not to be in that people's room—a woman how you loaded my horse ten times overloading it. I hope it shouldn't be, but if this change will be for a better future or for a better citizen, I've been on the Committee restrained, then I will be for this Decision, although I say I have no resources in the executive government... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12252	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12253	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12254	The secretary warns me that the other one, even though I was convinced that he already had two.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12255	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Don't worry, I'm trying to know the Rules of Procedure. I've had a discussion and one replica and this is another replica, and I know what else I have, what I have, so right. So, there's been a lot of attempts to get the corrections wrong. Instead, in fact, in these attempts, the real allegations have been distorted and I really don't want to answer those questions, but I want to say that we respect, so every MP here in Parliament, the right of every MP to think the way he thinks, to speak as he says. But, therefore, the fact is, and that is why I have asked it as a principle question, that we will have a new parliamentary majority and have an opposition and a Council of Ministers where eight of the ten members actually chose the opposition. That's why I thought it was right to put it as a problem here. If anyone thinks it's not a question, it's not a problem, okay? So, your right, you have a majority. So that's one message we wanted to send. 31 And secondly, our performance today is actually a desire to show that no question you have agreed and that you will be spending will simply not pass here in Parliament. It will be subject to microscopic analysis and SDA activity. That's what I want to tell you. Especially when those are the things that we estimate, when those are the things that we estimate are destructive processes in BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12256	Thank you. And I thank you in order for everything to be subjected to analysis and critical observation. I, therefore, am no longer on the monitor of any reported replicas or debates. There's the chairman of the Council of Ministers, me, here's another chance if he wants to address the House before the plea. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12257	President and members of the College, distinguished representatives, fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Here, I'm taking the opportunity and a chance to speak to you very briefly and to say the following. The formation of a new parliamentary majority in the wake of this year in accordance with the democratic principles established and under the Constitution and law, the process of replacing ministers and deputy ministers at the BiH Council of Ministers in the SDA, whose political stances were no longer part of the parliamentary majority's political and programme objectives. The observed BiH is in an extremely difficult situation in situations where the domestic economy is rapidly stagnating, when the number of unemployed is growing inexorably and when the number of people in a state of social need is constantly increasing. Our country's credit rating is in decline and an unfavourable trade balance with countries in the environment, i.e. EU countries or beyond, not to mention. This serious situation has led the Council of Ministers to assume its planned and undertaken commitments to meet the reform objectives of European and Euro-Atlantic integration as soon as possible. Therefore, following talks with the proposed candidates, in accordance with the applicable rules, the Commission delivered an opinion on the similarity of the candidates for ministers and deputy ministers, I, under the Council of Ministers Act, made a decision on the appointment of colleagues, I hope future Ministers of Security, Defence and Deputy Minister of Finance. I am convinced that the representatives of this high House will take the correct stand against this Decision and confirm it in the interest of all those who have given us confidence, and thus create favourable... to meet the declared objectives. I sincerely hope that you will support this Decision, that I will welcome Mrs. Đapo, honoured by Mr. Osmić and Radončić at the first scheduled session of the Council of Ministers, without doubting that he will make a full contribution and... and we will move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12258	I thank the chairman of the Council of Ministers. So, we have a Decision here in front of us as a unique Decision to confirm Fahrudin Radončić as Minister of Security, Zekerijah Osmić as Minister of Defence and Edita Đaspo as Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury. 32 And I suggest that we then vote on a decision that implies, that is, the confirmation of all three of the proposed ones. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 29 votes in favour, 9 votes against, 0 abstentions, the entity majority of the Federation and RS is sufficient, that the decision has been confirmed, i.e. that they have been elected as Minister of Security Mr. Fahrudin Radončić, as defence minister Mr. Zekerijah Osmić and Deputy Minister of Finance and Treasury Mrs. Edita Đapo. I invite them now to join in giving the solemn oath, and the other MPs also ask us to stand up.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12260	I swear.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12261	Declaring
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12262	that I will exercise my trust in my duties,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12263	that I will knowingly perform the duties which I have been entrusted with,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12264	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12265	to respect the BiH Constitution,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12266	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in BiH,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12267	fully implement the General Framework Agreement for Peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12268	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12269	to protect and defend human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to protect the interests and equality of all peoples and citizens. 33
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12270	Once again, I want to congratulate all the chosen ones from this place. Here, I will personally come and congratulate you and then, here we leave five minutes and for the other MPs that I can do it. [[APLAuz]] I'd ask my colleagues and my fellow MPs to take their seats to continue our work. As far as I can tell, congratulations are over, let's go work. I'd like professional services to call with the bell and personally to the colleagues and colleagues of the MPs who are in the hall, because this is how I conclude that we don't have a quorum here. So here I've been reported to have a quorum. We're going to the third point, Ad. 3. The adoption of the minutes of the 35th session of the House of Representatives
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12273	In short, page 12, point 12, the conclusion is that the SBB's conclusions were adopted with, so it just says, 26 for, 11 against and 2 abstentions. This is the second one, probably a mistake was made because it wasn't taken into account that this was the second round of voting. So 11 were against and the conclusions were not adopted. So, it needs to be fixed -- it's not.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12274	I thank you for this intervention, yes. We don't have any further reports to discuss. We're going to the fourth point, Ad. 4. Representative questions: (a) Comments on answers received Before we move on to this point, of course I don't have the right to limit anyone's time to speak, but I would ask, given the time we've already spent, to be as rational as possible. And when we come to the question of advocacy, whoever, I say, can accept them in writing. Here you go. The first one came from a respected representative, Šefik Džaferović. 34 _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12277	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I said last time that I would reserve my right for today to say only one sentence of two initiatives and make proposals. On my initiative, the Council of Ministers made up the Information on the implementation of the Framework Law on Fundamental and Medium Education in BiH. You've all got the information. I thank the Council of Ministers who made up this information. And there is information on the state of the labour market in BiH and a proposal for measures to be taken to reduce unemployment. I also thank the BiH Council of Ministers for delivering this information. I propose that the College include both information in one of Parliament's next sittings on the agenda to discuss them. I think it's about the necessary things to discuss here in Parliament, useful and good information. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12278	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12279	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12280	He's giving up. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12281	Just one sentence. When asked about the power of the Armed Forces to help the local population in the event of fire and flood, we got an answer that wasn't contained in this section that was delivered to us in response to my parliamentary question, but was said that helicopters couldn't fly because of the lack of a handful of seals. It's a message to the population that I can't expect anything this winter because, because of the fist of the seals, it's the ministry's answer.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12282	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić. Here you go. 35
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12283	The Honorable Chairman. Allow me to comment on the response of the Foreign Ministry to my parliamentary question – to which are the diplomatic passports, with which period of duration, which names, etc., etc. Since I got the material recently, and it's one big book, let me take a good look at it and comment on it next week and not today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12284	Thank you. We don't have any more comments. Moving on to, b) New parliamentary issues So, with a request again, if it's possible to deliver them in writing. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12286	Here, esteeming the need for the rationality of time, I will not read it, but mostly ask again, so the representatives of the Party for BiH ask again, or update their earlier question about the effects of the parliaments in 2006, 2010-2014 for the first two years of the term of office. Here, we have two years now, so let's compare the effects and the results a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12287	Thank you. Dear Representative Amir Fazlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12288	I have short questions. Offered to the 2011 audit reports, I will ask – How many vehicles are owned by BiH institutions in 2012, and what is their accounting value in 2012? And secondly – How much did the institutions spend on the rolling stock in 2012, separate the maintenance from the purchase of new vehicles? And 2. for entity governments, so they don't get angry – How many vehicles in 2012 do the institutions of the Federation of BiH own, and what is their accounting value in 2012, and how much are spent on the rolling stock, how much did they spend on the rolling stock in 2012? Same here to separate maintenance from the purchase of new vehicles. 36 And the same question for RS – How many vehicles in 2012 are owned by RS institutions, which is an accounting value, and how much was spent on the rolling stock in 2012. Separate maintenance from the purchase of new vehicles. A brief comment: For 2011, I have the information that BiH institutions have 3.549 accounting-value vehicles of 25 million and that 18.5 million have been spent to maintain or purchase new vehicles. If this puts the issue down on municipalities, cantons and everything else, the question of the justification of starting domestic car production is raised.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12289	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12290	So my question is addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers and concerns audit reports. - Why does the Council of Ministers not implement the recommendations of each year's audits in the reports on the revision of the financial conduct of BiH institutions? - Why is the Council of Ministers deafening itself on the numerous conclusions of both House of Parliamentary Assembly on repairing the state of governance, spending and availability of public money? - When will the Council of Ministers begin to consider and act on negative audit reports, reports with a financial management reserve made by the Office for Audit? - And what will the Council of Ministers do to remove the shortcomings in the report on the report on the implementation of the Budget of the BiH institutions that received a negative opinion? So it's all about the audit.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12291	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12292	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. My question is addressed to the Council of Ministers and reads – Is the Council of Ministers of BiH aware and does it carry out any activities related to the conclusion of the Water Plants Treaty on the Drina River between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and one side, now several foreign firms? The Drina River is an international river. According to Article 1(2) of the Law on concessions of BiH, the Commission for concessions, i.e. the Council of Ministers and the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, is responsible for awarding concessions in sectors that are within the BiH Constitution and the BiH Constitution, as well as for the case of the presentation of the international subjectivity of BiH as well as when the concession is well extended to both BiH institutions. It is clear from the described member of the Law on concessions that 37 concessions on the international river can only be awarded by the state institutions of BiH and not by entities. We learn from the media that activities on this plan are being conducted exclusively by the RS entity authorities, and that no activities by the Council of Ministers of BiH are being undertaken. For these reasons, this question is asked. It was written on 7.11.2012, but the session was postponed. And in addition to the claim that it cannot go without BiH institutions, without the Council of Ministers, it is also a request from the RS that the Council of Ministers of BiH issue a statement, as it is written here, so to accept and sign a statement confirming the RS declaration of joint implementation of energy projects with a single state, I will not speak to which state. So this can't happen without the BiH institutions. I ask the Council of Ministers to respond urgently and to answer this question. And what's more important is that he reacts urgently. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12293	Thank you. Dear Representative Saša Bursać. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12294	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to say hello to all my colleagues first. I have a short question – How much of the finished furniture, or finished wood products, has been exported from BiH? How much of the furniture elements are exported from BiH, i.e. A semi-product of wood? How many of BiH's cut-up areas have been exported? Please specify which exporters are and write for each type of goods, product type, type of wood, quantity and value in money. The issue is addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and to the Directorate for Direct Taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12295	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12296	Thank you. I have one initiative for the Council of Ministers, two questions and one for the Board of Appeals. I'd like to read this initiative, and we're going to contribute to this. I initiate this initiative by the Council of Ministers, i.e. I initiate urgent access to the border with the Republic of Croatia above all in the area of Neum. Since BiH has been treated as a maritime country exclusively for its exit to the sea, there are certain dilemmas in that part, primarily by Croatia. I think it is necessary and I demand that the Council of Ministers of BiH urgently approach the border with the Republic of Croatia before the EU border is official on the south side, as it will be far more difficult and demanding for the process to end in the coming period. Thank you. 38
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12297	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My question will be a little longer. In search of BiH's export markets, the Russian Federation's market for which only 0.5% of BiH's exports is waste in 2010, and the Russian Federation's export market is only 22. Other countries in the region, especially the Republic of Serbia, have made much more effective use of the Russian Federation market. Thus, the share of the Russian Federation in Serbia's total exports, which has a bilateral Free Trade Agreement with the Russian Federation, is 5.5% in 2010, and the Russian Federation's 4th export market is the size of exports. Slovenia achieves about 3% of its exports to the Russian Federation market, it is the market for it 6th of the export size, while Croatia has only about 2% of its exports to the Russian Federation, the market is the 8th largest export to Croatia. On the other hand, BiH and that country, with the exception of Slovenia, have an external trading partner in the Russian Federation that is high on the rankings of countries from which energy, raw materials and various products are imported. These characteristics of the trade in goods with the Russian Federation reveal a number of potential related trade arrangements that were current in BiH during the first years of reconstruction and reconstruction of BiH's economy. In addition to the fact that the existing export opportunities to the Russian Federation have not been sufficiently used by BiH, it should be noted that additional export opportunities can be expected in the perspective based on expected economic growth and living standards in the Russian Federation, and the liberalisation of trade following full membership of the Russian Federation in the World Trade Organisation since August 2012. All circumstances suggest that in conditions... in some traditional export markets, the Russian Federation market can be a significant exportation of the generation of new exports to BiH. My question is – What does the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations intend to do to focus and promote BiH exports to the Russian Federation and improve the economic relations between BiH and the Russian Federation? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12299	Thank you. Honorable representative Ismet Dervoz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12300	Mr. Chairman. I direct the initiative to all men, members of the BiH presidency, the Council of Ministers, members of both co-workers of parliamentary homes, all elected male colleagues at all levels in BiH. 39 25. November is marked as the International Day for Combating Violence against Women and Family Violence. And in BiH, a joint UN campaign was presented by the agency called Men associated with violence against women who are part of the global... campaign by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. The campaign promotes a network of men leaders who make up current and former politicians, activists in civil society and among young people, religious leaders, cultural figures and other prominent individuals who act in all spheres of influence to launch concrete actions to eliminate violence against women through public awareness, by taking up appropriate laws, and to initiate the responsibility of government institutions. In BiH, too, a League of Real Men, a forum of men, has been established to support prevention and the fight against violence against women and girls. I invite you distinguished colleagues to show responsibility and concern for the reduction of the number of women who suffer from the violence of the basic human right – the right to live, to contribute to the healing of families at risk of violence and to the creation of new generations of young men and men whose form of violence will be foreign and unacceptable. Do it as responsible elected officials and as men. The contribution of the BiH Gender Equality Commission to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is the Manual that has been found today at its tables. It is a manual for Parliamentarians of the Council of Europe that can also help us promote a convention that will be the first legally binding instrument, the first legally binding instrument that defines violence against women and domestic violence as a crime. So I ask you to use it and to do it, so together everything we can do to make this problem as small as possible and to allow future generations to live in a quieter society, in a society that will not tolerate violence, especially against women and domestic violence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12301	Thank you. Dear Representative Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12302	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A parliamentary issue on the implementation of the Agreement on a five-year development co-operation programme between the Government of the Republic of Greece and the Government of the Council of Ministers of BiH, I would like to point out the following question to the BiH Council of Ministers and the Office for the Audit of BiH Institutions. 1. Under what legal rules has the BiH Council of Ministers reached conclusions at the 2nd and 46th session, delegating the provisions of the International Treaty concluded between BiH and the Republic of Greece? 2. In what way and according to the regulations, financial resources can be provided from the budget reserve of the BiH institution and intended for the reconstruction and reconstruction of the boiler room in the Council of Ministers building of the 570,000 KM to be used for the reconstruction of the Kasindo East Sarajevo Hospital. Reason: The agreement on a five-year development co-operation programme between the Government of the Republic of Greece and the Council of Ministers of BiH and aneks a sets out the objectives and programmes, the objectives of the programme of allocation of 40 evaluations(?) and follow-up procedures, the Joint Management Board of Rules and Regulations, how financial support is paid, how enforcement is carried out and other issues necessary for the implementation of procedures in accordance with European standards. The National Committee of BiH was appointed by the Council of Ministers and approved by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Greece has respected all the envisaged procedures and successfully completed the rehabilitation and reconstruction of BiH's friendship building between BiH and the Republic of Greece, as confirmed by the BiH Institutions Audit Office. A second approved aid project by the Republic of Greece, which refers to the reconstruction of the Kasindo Hospital of 3,556,052 euros was approved in June 2008, but due to a known situation in this country, the project is very slowed down and with difficulties the National Committee of BiH reported by the BiH Council of Ministers. All reports on the implementation of the Hospital's reconstruction projects have been accepted by the Council of Ministers and Hyper Hyperes of the Republic of Greece by 2011. The 2011 report on implementation and reconstruction of Kasindo Hospital discussed the Council of Ministers at the 2nd, 4th and 6th sessions and reached conclusions that are illegal and which are contrary to the ratified International Treaty of the Two States. Irregularities in the decision-making process are mainly seen in the denegation of the provisions of the ratified International Treaty, the refusal of further implementation of the agreement, the transfer of financial management powers to the BiH Ministry of Finance and Treasury, the transfer of powers to further implementation and reconstruction of the Hospital to the Ministry of Finance and Treasury, even though the National Committee has already signed two service contracts, the Management Project and the Control Services for the Implementation of Works and the Transfer of Financial Funds that remained neutral from approved funds for the recovery and reconstruction of the main boiler room, and belong to the Budget of the BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12303	I'm asking the agent to take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12304	Here, for the above-mentioned reason, I ask the Council of Ministers to answer the questions raised. Thank you, and I apologize.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12305	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12306	I have, gentlemen, the chairman, four short questions for the minister, the Ministry of Transport and the communication of BiH. 1. Eight months ago, we were informed in the media that by the 11th month, BHDCA, so our Civil Aviation Directorate takes control of the BH sky, at least said Minister Hadžić. Is BHDCA ready and whether all the conditions are met, and whether or not that happened? If not, why? 41 2. What has the Ministry of Transport and Communications done to prepare BiH for 01/07, the date of Croatia's entry into the EU, and what kind of trouble can BiH's economy and citizens expect from that date from the ministry's jurisdiction? 3. In early 2014, our neighbors shut down the analogue signal for electronic media. Is BiH ready for the moment and how long has BiH come with the digitalisation process, and what consequences can we expect? 4. Why doesn't the construction of a bridge on the Sava River in Svilaj begin? Is it true that the contractor of the works "Strabac" filed an appeal for delaying the introduction of works with a compensation request of around 2,880,000 euros, and who will be responsible for the damage done to BiH? And I have one question to ask the Federation Government, i.e. the Ministry of Justice of the Federation – Are you familiar with the state and conditions of residence in Luke Bihac's Penal jurisprudence? Reason: If I were to describe the situation of the KPD, Luke Bihac, because the prisoners write to me that the situation is unsustainable, that people are willing to talk but not to react, and they need help from someone outside. Performing religious rituals is a mental noun, beaten by guards, cursed, harassed, without any conditions for hygiene, even withholding their food. Therefore, I expect the Federation Government to answer whether this is the situation, and to inform me about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12307	Thank you. The word has an MP, i.e. parliamentary questions asked by Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12308	Mr. Vice President. I would, given the short time we have not explained my question, it is addressed to the Office for the Coordination and Harmonization of the Payment System in Agriculture and Food in Rural Development, it refers, therefore, to the negative reports on BiH's progress or BiH's European road congestion – how is it possible to fix this poor situation in this very important segment? I will deliver the reasons and integrity of the questions in writing and request a written answer on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12309	Thank you. The word is from Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12310	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I have two short questions. The first question goes to the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining of the Federation of BiH – When is the start of the eighth block of the Termopower plant Kakanja in Kakanja planned? The second question goes to the Ministry of Transport and Communication of the Federation of BiH, the Federal Directorate of the Federation of BiH Highways, which is – When and how is it planned to build an alternative road along the A1 highway from Catic to Kaknja? And second sub-question – When and how is it planned to build loops on the A1 car road in Čatići, Kakanj Municipality? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12311	Thank you. Since there are no more registered MPs, we are moving to the fifth item of the agenda, Ad. 5. The request of the BiH Council of Ministers for consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on Administrative Taxes under the haste procedure, in accordance with Article 127. Rules of Procedure of the House of Representatives I'm opening a motion hearing. MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12313	Thank you. I suggest we move this, not to be in a hasty procedure, but to be in a shortened procedure for reasons that I cannot agree to an increase in customs duty where the goods are exported. We just had a question about what the Council of Ministers is doing to improve exports, here's an increase in export taxes. So I can't accept that. I agree to raise taxes on, and more than this, to settle for imports, and to export even if it can be freed or to stay, at the very least, as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12314	Thank you. The word has an MP, Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12315	Here's a very short one. When it comes to the emergency procedure requirement in the explanation, it is said that the practically expected 10 million revenues are already, if I understand this correctly, included on the revenue side of the draft budget and are expected, therefore by an emergency procedure to arrive, so to speak, and by passing this law and making some of these 10 million if the budget is good. And they put 43, the Fiscal Council a few days ago, so it says that the deadline for adoption of the budget is December 05th. The draft budget has not yet been established. Therefore, the Bureau was not established. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] No, no, please. The deadlines, no one mentions October 15th, no one mentions November 15th. So on November 15th, the budget was supposed to be in the House of Peoples, and in Parliament it was due on October 15th. I don't think we can fix the situation that the Council of Ministers brought us into and adopt the budget by 05th, and not even by the end of the year, let alone then go to variations, if, this is like us a rabid rabbit in the woods. I don't think I could support this emergency procedure either. As late as the budget is, and this law, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12317	Thank you. And last reported within this point by Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12318	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDA, we cannot accept the procedure of emergency procedure in accordance with Article 127, because it is in fact an increase in taxes in the 100% amount and it is another force on the villa, as they would say. We think we should do a quality analysis of what it really means in terms of making life difficult for citizens. For this reason, we believe that it may also be necessary to intervene with some of the members of this law and therefore does not comply with this procedure in an emergency procedure under Article 127. We will vote against such a procedure.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12319	Thank you. Since there are no more reports, I am concluding a debate on the 5th item of the agenda. We're going to the sixth item of the agenda, Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (second reading) I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Here you go. MP Šefik Džaferović applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12321	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. 44 The Constitutional Commission of the House of Representatives has today completed its report on this law in a second reading. We have adopted six amendments that are actually of a technical nature and we propose that the House, therefore, adopt the law with these amendments. Another issue has arisen, which came too late because it began to happen late in relation to this bill, which is a question of the possibility of handing over domestic citizens to certain crimes in line with the European Commission's demands and bringing BiH legislation into line with EU legislation. BiH will certainly enter the regime for the conclusion of bilateral agreements ratified by Parliament regarding the extradition of citizens based on reciprocity for crimes related to corruption and so on, organised crime, I think Minister Čolak has already concluded certain agreements with some countries in the neighbourhood, and that is actually a requirement put before BiH, and then tried amendments to a law already in progress with that kind of solution. That's something new compared to the text that was offered. And today, the Commission is committed to accepting these technical solutions, to adopt the law as it is, and that the Ministry immediately begins to fully develop the area. I also spoke to the Minister of Justice, Mr. Čolak, and he also, here he is, he will certainly speak, I hope, to prepare and refer to the parliamentary procedure, so a new amendment that will edit this area that we talked about. Technically, it was not possible to install it in this text of the Law, because it would have to be intervened on the basic provisions of the Law and not fully considered that solution that must be fully reflected. So, I propose that, as chairman of the Constitutional Commission, this law be adopted with a report by the Constitutional Commission as the Commission has said. And here, on behalf of the SDA, as an opposition party, we will contribute to the adoption of this law, because this is a good law for this country. We won't be against it even though we're opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12322	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the sixth item of the agenda. We're moving to the seventh item of the agenda, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the BiH Election Law – Proposer: Ismet Dervoz (second reading) I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Since there are no reports, I'm closing the debate on the 7th item of the agenda. We're moving to the eighth item of the agenda, Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Communication Act – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12325	... [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12326	Excuse me, can you...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12327	Business intervention before the debate begins. So, before we move on to the debate, I would ask and suggest that, in accordance with Article 106(4), so when it comes to the law of less complexity, and here it stands in paragraph 4, so if it is estimated that it is a small degree of complexity law, the House may decide that the proposal for a law is considered in a second reading without considering it in the competent commission, i.e. This second phase. Since this is about only two members of the law I would ask you not to give a wider explanation, since this topic is known to everyone, I would ask you for a short break of 2-3 minutes. Given the number of MPs present on behalf of the Club, I would like to request a break of up to 5 minutes to gather MPs so that they can plead. So, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this law be considered in the second phase given the degree of complexity, as I have already said it stands in the Rules of Procedure. _________(?) [[(no microphone(s) turned on/]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12328	Wait a minute, I'm asking for your attention. So, an MP on behalf of the club, of course, has the right to ask and I'll take a break if it's a request from the club, just a question is it really necessary to and how much we'll give a break, 5 minutes? _________(?) It'll take 10 minutes. Here I am, then, asking you, since we are already late for the absorption of today's agenda, that it really will be 10 minutes and that we continue after 10 minutes and that we will plead on this proposal. Break 10 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12330	I would ask colleagues and colleagues to take their seats and continue our work. As far as I can tell, we have a quorum here. The SDS rep club asked for a break. If they need to explain themselves freely, then let's proceed with the debate. So there's one conclusion that we're going to present to the House at the end of the debate on this point. 46 I see here on the display, the following came to the debate by the distinguished representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12331	I'll do it very briefly. So, for me, inadmissible or rather inconclusive motives of alterations and additions are inadmissible. So we are constantly entering a practice that, when a legally established procedure is not implemented from the obvious obstruction of one of the participants in the structure of the procedure, we resort to changes and additions. Here you see, that's how it was with the Law on the Funding of Institutions, here's this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Communication Act. We're changing it because of what the Council of Ministers said after eight months and not accepting the proposed candidates from us here, simply did not propose new people, but only realized that this law that has been proposed should be amended and so on. What if these proposed changes, if this Parliament does not choose, what can happen. So, in my opinion, the reasons for amending and supplementing the law, without the predetermined responsibilities of the people in the procedures, will not bring us any improvement. So I don't see the need to change, I see the need for more serious implementation of what is prescribed by law. If no candidate has been elected, proposed by the Council of Ministers, by this Parliament, the Council of Ministers is obliged to propose another. It didn't do it and it says let's change the law now. I find that unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12332	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12333	I give up.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12334	He's giving up. Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12335	Gentlemen chairman. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Communication Act. The competent Commission for Transport and Communications gave a positive opinion on this law, although with a very critical number of votes. For any 3, 2 were against and 1 abstention, which speaks enough about this being offered a legal solution and is not exactly the happiest solution. On the other hand, here are my colleagues from the SDS preparing some conclusion that is going on, and I think we should say today in the second round of reading, in the second round of voting, I'm sorry. You're not going to, are you, the parliamentary majority that has enough votes, you're not going to deny us MPs the right to submit amendments, to intervene on this law. If you do, then we can say freely in this House goodbye to democracy, the opposition has no right to either participate in the work, nor to propose, nor to amend, nor to correct the laws, but there is only the right to be 47 critics, and of course it will be overvoted, outvoted, or I don't know how you will, but then you must amend the Rules of Procedure. Of course you have hands for it and the Rules of Procedure are changing in conclusion, and I understand that, but I don't think that's right, that it's contrary to all possible principles, to leave us the right to make amendments and intervene on a legal solution that's radical. That's what I was talking about on the Commission. I know you're in a hurry to name a V.D., or the Agency's Council, and to name a V.D. Director of the Regulatory Agency for Communications, but do not in law provide that the Council of Ministers plays a dominant role, because it is a direct interference, or intervention to the independence of this regulator, which should be a regulator that is at least independent of the Council of Ministers. It shouldn't be independent of the entire state, the complete system, etc., but please don't agree to that kind of thing. I believe that you are in a hurry to appoint that director as soon as possible and to meet your demands under this agreement, but you must understand that if we make a nakaradic solution, maybe in 2 or 4, maybe before, the year will completely change the parliamentary majority, so maybe there will be intervention in the other direction and so on, it doesn't lead us anywhere. That is why I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and leave us an opportunity to intervene on this proposed law which is short, which only has two members, but he actually, this first member is intruding into the essence of the independence of the regulators. This is a very sensitive question, meaning influence on the media, and therefore I would ask you not to make such a catastrophic mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12336	I thank the honourable representative. I am obliged to clarify, therefore, because there has been a talk here about a possible breach of the Rules of Procedure, on a visit to Article 106(4), which says – if the House considers it to be a small degree of complexity, the House may decide to consider the proposal of the Law in another reading, without considering it in the competent commission, or phase two. The Rules of Procedure are therefore not violated, but eventually the House will decide, so none of the MPs will decide individually or from the College. Replica, the esteemed representative, Mr. Mehmedović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12337	So it's quite clear that you have the number of hands and that you can vote that conclusion, but it's not right not to leave us the opportunity to make an amendment. Why didn't you say before that there would be such a situation, and here I would have prepared the amendment and brought it in and voted on it. But it's not right to exclude our right to make an amendment.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12338	Dear Representative Milorad Živković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12339	Dear Chairman, colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. So this law was already in the procedure of Article 127, and then it could be decided that it was adopted immediately, so that it would not stand at your conclusion that amendments could not be made, because it was simply proposed. 48 Also remember that there are two equal homes here in the Parliamentary Assembly. I, as far as I know in the House of Peoples, have your MPs where the law may be at that stage to propose amendments there. I think we've agreed today, so here's to say a parliamentary six-way that currently has a majority in this House, to let the House of Peoples correct this law in the form and according to amendments that even the SNSD were acceptable. We even felt that this federal model should be applied where Parliament solves everything, as it has been decided in the Federation. And we don't mind. But today there was a requirement for this law to be adopted in both readings so that the agreement we had before the beginning of this session would be respected. It is voted after the first reading in the proposal and the conclusion, which Mr Bojić suggested, that this Parliament go on to the second reading. We will see, according to the vote, how Parliament will be determined. We'll tell SNSD right away that we'll vote for another reading. But here's what's not said. I expect another conclusion to be submitted here, which we will also vote on, which would vote and would go in the direction that after a few years of the man who is there w.d. or is out of his office, the Council of Ministers enters the procedure to relieve him and put a V.D. until all these legal projects are adopted and followed by a procedure for selecting that man. So that conclusion, and that's what we agreed, we should write and vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12340	Thank you. Dear Representative Šemsudin Mehmedović, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12341	I thank Mr. Živković for the clarification he gave, I know about this possibility that exists in the House of Peoples and the possibility of possible and blockade, if we can say so, but that is not it. We are MPs here, I think, should be equal in this House, that we have the right to propose, to make decisions, to vote, to, against, abstentions, and so on. But we cannot suggest a conclusion that is understood, and that is to say respect for the Rules of Procedure. This conclusion is, in fact, sort of an intervention on the Rules of Procedure. There is therefore no need to suggest that the Rules of Procedure be respected. And you, of course, have a number of hands, you can vote whatever you want, but I warn you that's not good, it's the introduction of practice. We haven't, as far as I know, been in this House for six years, never in any way acted like that without it being unanimous in the first vote. So if there's no one against us voting in the second round, then we went. So I ask you that, this is a harsh violation of the Rules of Procedure, this is violence against democracy. If you think that's how you're supposed to push through, no problem, but there are other mechanisms waiting, don't make us be the ones blocking the House of Peoples, there's no need.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12342	Thank you. No more reporting for discussion or replication. Is this a debate or was this a mistake? _________(?) That's right, I was wrong. 49 Okay. I am concluding the debate on point 8. Moving to point nine, Ad. Nine. Proposal for a Law on Mine Action – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12346	Thank you. So you got the opinion of the Joint Commission who practically unanimously adopted this Law. It is known that BiH has still failed to address the issue of demining, or mine pollution problems in BiH, 13 years since the end of the war. In 2008, the Council of Ministers adopted the Anti-mining Action Strategy and one of the main objectives of the Action Plan, which was created under the Strategy, is to pass the Anti-minal Action Act. We know that in the last term, the law has fallen because it did not go to a common agreement between homes, but it is important to say what is the basic quality of this law. So the proposed law improves the organisational structure of demining at all levels. So, entities from their resources are demining, BiH is demining foreign donations and demining both the RS and the Federation areas. And what was fundamental was, whoever was in charge and responsible as the key responsibility for demining is the Ministry of Civil Affairs. Who was it so far? It was some demining committee made up of three people, three persons, who had no obligation to the Ministry of Civil Affairs, whose Authority was BHMAC. So we are finally in line that the Ministry will be responsible, i.e. in charge of the demining process. 50 What else is significant here? Since its founding in Slovenia, money has been collected from donors for demining in BiH. It's amazing that this country doesn't hold on to many things, but it doesn't hold up to form its own fund from which it will demining its territory, it's unreasonable. So, countless donor countries have spoken to us, or form your own fund, or we'll cut you off, cut you off from demining donations. Germany has said that explicitly recently. If you don't form a fund, don't count on donations from us anymore. And not only Germany, Canada, Japan, many of the countries involved. What does that mean? This means that BiH, for which the Slovenac collect within the ITF fund for which they raise funds, has no idea how much money has been collected, nor how much the donor has given for this purpose, nor how much territory has been cleared of that donation money, so there is no idea of anything. So it's amazing that anyone in this country, if it's not about crime and corruption, can defend the view that the Fund is not in a country that needs to worry about mine clearance. So that's amazing. What I would also like to say is that financing the demining, as I mentioned earlier, means it goes from the budget of the BiH institutions. It'll be a planned budget in Budget. So far, only BHMC employees have financed from the Budget, and demining is all funded from the donation. So now we will start with a minimum amount of the fund and all countries will invest in the Fund in BiH. From the entity's budget, Brcko District, canton and municipalities, as so far, nothing will change, and donations and loans from international financial institutions. And instead of BHMAC, it will be the administrative organisation of the Ministry of Civil Affairs, the Demining Agency. So, there is no formation of new institutions, there is already an institution, but it will significantly reduce its competences, because so far BHMAC as the body of the three-man commission, employed as civil servants in three ministries, decided on things, were members of the ITF Trust Management Board and others. So, chaos one total. There's a lot of things where we're chaotic, but I guess this is an unprecedented example. I can't believe anyone's gonna be who's gonna be against this law. There's one thing that should also be said that I don't know what kind of mistake it is about managing the agency. So the existing executive has been selected for unlimited duration. Imagine we have an executive, a civil servant who has no mandate at all. So this law introduces order into that area. And also in article 20 relating to the retirement internship for persons employed, someone suggested that it be 18 months, one of the participants in that. We believe that this is contrary to the Law on Pension Disability Protection and the collective contract and that it should be 16 months as well as for other things. And as a guarantee that the Ministry of Civil Affairs will successfully fund the donor's purpose, they have submitted a proposal for an amendment that should be corrected, a special account formed in the vault, provided us with a precise amendment to Article 19(1), which says that in order to collect the financial resources referred to in Article 1st point (c) and (d) and other needs for the implementation of mine action in BiH, the Ministry of Finance and the Treasury of BiH will open a special account called the Anti-minor Action Fund in BiH. It'll be settled in amendment. So I suggest we uphold the principles of this law.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12347	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12348	Thank you. 51 It is good that this bill is on the agenda today, but I am primarily interested in, see the Agency, or the Centre for Mine Action of BiH is very valuable, necessary, etc. But at this point, I think we also have problems concerning, say, the Environment Agency or the Agriculture Agency, which gives far greater effects and offers complete society and country, but we don't have these agencies. We have a proposal here now, and I would agree, first of all, I saw it in Articles 20 and 41 where it says exactly what the goal is to move from the center to the agency. A more stable funding, a normal series of benefits that will give the agency exactly the opportunity, but behind that is exactly something else I've noticed, I'm not going to say that certain employees in this agency or the centre do not deserve a certified job internship, but look at Articles 20 and 41, it's stated that I'm not saying drivers and medics and drivers and radio operators and a series of others who have the right to a year-to-year benefits, per year, 18 months. However, what is particularly interesting to me is that, in Article 59, in criminal matters, there is no responsibility of the Chief Inspectors. Look, there's a lot of times going on that they've even checked the terrain, but after that, something's happening again. There's no responsibility. I really feel that these things and these members of this bill should be well thought out and only then say what and how and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12349	Thank you. Honored representative Nermina Zaimović Uzunović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12350	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to repeat what my colleague Majkić said, but I'm going to relate to some other facts. The fact is that BiH needs the Law on Mine Action and that it long needed such a law. The activities and activities taking place in the area of demining must be well arranged in order to ensure the efficiency of the tasks set out. There are several reasons that are important for this law to be passed. First of all, BiH still has 2.5% of the territory that is mined or 1,275km of mine surface, the term used at the Mine Removal Centre, total. The second reason is that, as mentioned, BiH singles out only for salaries of state officials in the MAC, while for real activities, or demining activities, funds are provided from donations. It is very important that these funds continue to be provided in view of the state of the budget and the dependence on donors and for some longer period of time as long as such needs exist. The second thing I will specifically address is – the law needs to be brought into line with the international standarts and conventions that BiH has ratified and that oblige us in view of our European path and NATO integration. Therefore, it is necessary to make this law better and, yes, not immediately after we adopt it again with the corrections of that law. Namely, this law must first of all be classified, and this is not unfortunately done, to include the Convention on the Prohibition of Casset Ammunition, and to comply with the European regulations governing this area. I think it's okay and BiH has ratified the Convention on the Ban of Cartridge Ammunition and deposited the documents with the UN in 2010. In the article, also 2nd, 3rd and 5th. The draft law is not in an adequate way incorporated into the provisions of the Convention prohibiting the use of storage, production and transfer of anti-infantry mines and their destruction, which 52 of us through the Investigation Commission and all sorts of things we have done, so it may need to be developed in more detail by this law, which, of course, can be done in the amendment phase. The definitions of how it is suggested are not consistent with the latest terminology used in this area, so it should do, which I mean nothing is scary... just improve the quality of this law. In Article 19. The draft law in order to raise financial resources has already been mentioned that the Commission has reached the conclusion that a mistake has been stolen and that it should remain... which it is today existing, because it is a condition set by large donors before BiH, but it is also necessary to meet those other ones who are not to donate BiH funds in this way and I think that in this case we can be flexible and meet, when we are already making the law, to all donors and their demands, as a matter of fact, we depend on it. Then, the election in Article 14 that provides for the election and appointment of a person by the Council of Ministers on a proposal by the BiH Civilian Minister in accordance with the procedure prescribed by the Ministerial Names Act, it can be added that, in line with the fact that not only the minister decides, but that it decides with agreement and some others, for example. Deputy Minister or Secretary of the Ministry and so on. Then Article 16. The draft law is unclear and should be clarified. And I'll also mention that this must be an interesting question, and colleague Majkić said that, for the benefits of a job internship. Here there is, there is a need to bring this into line with legislation regarding the exercise of the right under the Retirement-Invalid Insurance Act, and then see what is the real basis. But in order to avoid the abuse of this institute of a well-favoured internship, it is necessary to specify which categories explicitly have the right to benefit from the benefits, so that the secretaries working in the offices have the right to an unfettered job internship. I don't think that's regulated. With that in mind, I will join, of course, the support for the adoption of this law that needs to be corrected in terms of it being even better, and of course we need it, and in particular that it will finally be resolved and this very controversial organisational structure within which this works. So I want to support and invite you to support this law and direct it to another reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12351	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12352	It may even be unnecessary to report as members of the committee because we had a coherent position that the President of the Joint Defence and Security Commission has carried out authentically and that is so. So, as far as I'm concerned, I absolutely support it, but here I am taking the opportunity to ask for two three things before the second reading of the motionary, or the resolute minister, who is here. So, once again, to test whether this concept can, even if it is explained to us, reject any other kind of donor, or whether in some situation we could have lost some donations that do not like this solution. That's one thing. And I pray that, on that matter, I have spoken to the Commission, that article 66 is precise. Therefore, the intention was likely to say that people employed at MAC on the day of termination, that is, on the day of the 53th founding, went to the Agency and was intended to say that the Agency was taking over property. Look at article 66, how it's formulated, very, very clumsy. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, I know, but let's make it right, we're gonna miss it. And this Article 69, absolutely, is to urgently specify that until the election of the Director of the Agency, until the election and procedure of the Director of the Agency, the tasks of the Agency will be carried out by V.D. Director. Don't even talk to the CEO of MAC, put V.D. The director shall be named in d.o.b. Director. I ask you, let us resolve this by the second reading, because you are completely confused by this article 66th and this article 69th, absolutely, that's what we were talking about on the Commission, is that it? As far as I'm concerned, of course the support of the law remains.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12354	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12355	I wouldn't call this a replica of Mr. Belkić's findings that we might lose some donors. Maybe we will, Mr. Belkić, but this is what we've put the Agency into the system. And make sure that we get far more than we lose in this way with all kinds of blurry work, various cloudy tenders where, here we read in the media, it's a shame.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12356	Here I hope we...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12357	So in the media we're reading what happens, I'm coming from the middle where because of these jobs of the current MAC, there's been a U.S. government inspection because there's some demining machines, there's a tender used here and they ended up in Sudan that's under the UNA's embargo. And I congratulate that this law introduces transparency in spending the funds, which rules are passed by this law, that we know how, and that the Council of Ministers adopts not some three private persons and that this law finally puts these tenders under the control of the Ministry of Civil Affairs that we know how who and what it does, because I'm afraid that if we continue to do as we have done so far, we can all get on some black list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12358	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, replica. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12359	So I got the impression from your replica that you recognized that I stood up for those schemes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12360	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12361	But the way you said it is very specific. So I've shown what I think about this law and what I think about this whole project. I simply said the following – I ask the promoter to explain the reactions of some other donors and so on, to see who these people were, what they were giving, how they were giving and so on. I couldn't agree more with you. I need to seduce you, and I need you to go to jail for those who, as you say, transferred something to Sudan over here. To be clear, we're on the same line, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12362	Thank you. Dear Representative Šefik Džaferović, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12363	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. We had this law a few years ago here in the House and it was adopted here in the House with the main solutions that also contain this text of the law, but unfortunately because of the different attitudes in the House of Peoples and the inability to comply with the law has fallen and has not been adopted. This is now a chance to re-admit this law. I welcome the adoption of this law, and it will bring order into this area. There are numerous objections to work in this area. What I would like to underline, although it is still said, is that it is very important that the Ministry goes with the amendment that point e) is in Article 19(1), it says in the Commission's report, but it should also be an amendment to delete it, because it is officially in the text itself, let it be written. That, instead of that point, it should actually be point d) as written in the Commission report, if that is the case, right. It's a very important thing to have all the donations that BiH has had so far in that capacity in which it has, not to be less, is it? And the other thing is, colleagues also talked about this, about these solutions, about the transitional period, cannot stand a solution that the Director of MAC continues to be the Director of the Agency until the end of his term, and it is known that he does not have a mandate, that is, the minister himself said it was a mistake in the law itself, and I think it should be corrected, therefore by the amendment in the way it has already been said, so here already in these discussions. And then of course, if there are any other amendments that are useful in improving the text of this law, we will ultimately support it. So we will uphold the law in the first reading and immediately speak of what needs to be done in order to have our support in the second reading, because it is good. So this is where the law introduces order in this area in BiH. That's it, thank you. 55
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12364	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12365	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Here, let me take a quick look at this law. I think it's extremely high-quality, that it's well and professionally defined from all over the area. I've been talking to certain people who have been working from that profession and given the law to read, and I have to say that they haven't had any more big or significant objections to it. It seems to me that this problem had to be approached much earlier with greater responsibility and seriousness and placed under the Ministry's ingenuity, because we still have on, in our forests where there can be no export of wooden varieties due to the threat of mine explosive means, to the fact that it is not allowed to pass in tourist resorts either. You know, when you guys bring a stranger to these places of ours and he sees that the yellow tape is limited to mines, he never comes here again. For these reasons, this needs to be approached as quickly and seriously as possible and handled in a quality way. I think that this will make a lot of BiH's economy more advanced and I think that, first of all, I think of tourism and woodworking industry where, I don't talk about the problems we're facing, extremely every life of gold is worth it, and we're in demining jobs, that is, we've lost a lot of deminers, a lot of people are wounded, incapacitated, civilians not to talk, and so on. So this job needs to be done both faster and more responsibly, and I think that in any case, when this thing takes its hands, the Ministry will go in a better quality. I hope that the rules and sublaws of all things will be defined in detail. Perhaps only, Mr. Minister, in article 62, says – a deminer who performs humanitarian counter-mining operations without minimum protective equipment, so he will be punished from 100 to..., I would avoid minimal but full protective equipment. There's no minimum, there's a regulation he has to have. You see, you SFOR soldiers are in every task in full combat, or in full equipment, because its insurance companies will never recognise it if only one of the equipment. So we don't leave it to those who make the rules, so they'll say, here's the minimum gear, so I don't know this and what, so full must always be equipment. And I advocate that if it is possible, if the law provides for 16 months to go, but please do not exclude drivers, nurses and anyone who comes into the area where mine explosives are still unaccounted for. In conversation with these, I have to say that almost none of these mines were time-related but that they were still 95% active. What Mr. Lozančić says, quality probably, is that it is made of quality, but unfortunately none of these mines are affected by time but remain and cause us great problems. For these reasons, I think it will contribute to transparency itself because it's a little ugly, regardless of which one of the institutions, the agencies, some of the affairs appear, I have to admit that it's all going here at our expense. It is we who make laws and decisions, and for these reasons I am pleased to see this law come into force as soon as possible. And as these colleagues have said, I think article 69 should be changed, that the agency's director's work will be done by V.D. The director who's appointed, and we don't immediately determine who those faces are. That doesn't stop anyone from choosing. Here, thanks, that's it. 56
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12366	Thank you. The word has the chairman of the House of Representatives, Dr Božo Ljubić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12367	Dear colleagues and colleagues. At first, I support the adoption of this law and it is necessary for a number of reasons. First, to establish, to put it this way, more domestic property over this process and thus more responsibility for all of us for the future of our children and ours. Secondly, to comply with other laws that have been passed in the meantime as stated in the explanation, but I also think that he would ask a few questions at this time, and in the second phase of the review, I intend to submit an appropriate amendment. My basic question concerns Article 12, where it is said – the headquarters of the Agency in Sarajevo, and then the Agency has organisational units in Sarajevo, Mostar and Banja Luka. As far as I know, we've run organisational units just where some agencies aren't based, so here I am now, maybe there's an excuse, so there's an organisational unit next to the Sarajevo headquarters. I, at this point, can't really tell myself if it's necessary. On the other hand, the work of the Agency is said to be managed by the Director. The director has a deputy. It is then said that, in paragraph 5. — the persons referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article may not be of the order of the same constituent people. If this item, in fact, looks at the essence then, in paragraph 3, it would have to be said that the director has two deputies because we have three constituent peoples, because here we are talking about constitutional peoples. And one question to Mr. Minister, where it is said – the Deputy Director performs the duties of the Director at the time of his absence and performs other duties entrusted to him by the Director. I'm just asking a question, so basically, if we're talking about constitutional peoples and if we're talking about a deputy, then we should put it here in plural, deputies, two deputies, but of course it can be corrected in a second step, so through the amendment phase. Well, I'd just like to make sure of that. Dear Representative Saša Bursać, the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12368	Thank you, Chairman. Well, in his discussion, Boško Tomić offered me a little bit so that I could say a few practical things, take advantage of the minister's presence. Indeed, this law and laws are similar to this if they are to be at each meeting of the House because there are very big problems in this area. I've been preparing one of the parliamentary questions here, but here, I've been given information that this point is going to go, so I'm going to use it within this point to say a few things. Especially on the three-way of Banja Luka, the Municipality of Banja Luka, the Municipality of Ostrna Luka and the Municipality of Sanski Most, on the territory of the Sanski Most last year, around this time there were tables placed around this period that some area was mined, and in the area where the tables were placed there are several houses and people there 57 living uninterruptedly and functioned absolutely normal and did not know that some areas were considered mined, that this practically around the house area was considered a mined area. And they don't know people, now they're in doubt whether or not the mine exists. On the one hand. On the other hand, between Vlasenica and Han Pijesk, people were engaged in a forest tax in front of the IRC. No one in the planning documents, which have forest land, is registered as mined, although they should be if they really are. And then it came to the situation that the team, which is usually boys and girls up to 30 years old, from 20 to 30 years old, activated one of those mine explosive devices, that mine that was left behind from the war, and fortunately a tragedy was avoided then. As yet, I don't think anyone knows how to avoid it. There's a mass of these problems in practice, in the field. I think that by slaved in this law, whether the decimal is here, whether the decimal is there, whether it should be this or that, I think a law like this should appear at a session of this House whenever something needs to change for the better and whenever something goes to meet the citizens of BiH. Citizens think that the burning ground, meaning one particular terrain that is mined, means that burning forests, fields, healing surfaces, this, what, will activate, demining or not knowing how to say it anymore, but I think there are situations where these mines are probably subject to that burning vegetation, but probably in that part still lagging behind these mine explosives. There are problems in practice, when someone’s cattle wander into a minefield, then a man prays to Bog and waits for her to leave that minefield alone, a man can wait days for them to return to his home. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] If they don't die, exactly. There are cases of mass, that I'm not telling you now that in these very mined fields there are some of the greatest pests that cause people damage to cattle, people can't get it out of there because there are mines and so on, and so on. That's why I'm begging you, you don't need to slave in these laws of this or that. When you look and you see someone who's missing a leg or some other part of the body, you'll all understand that you don't need to slave around here right now. This law should be promoted, if necessary at each session, only to be as effective as possible, as best as possible and to serve the citizens of BiH better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12370	Thank you. Dear Representative Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12371	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, members of the Council of Ministers. We have a law today one, I'll say quite a good law and in the first reading. We are talking about the principles of this law and invited to some previous experiences, here I want to say a few things in this first reading, remind us and ask us in a certain way all together. 58 This is a law that after 2-3 years we have in the procedure of, conditionally speaking, from the same minister, from the same ministry, here from the second Council of Ministers. If memory serves me well, I'm not sure there's much difference compared to what was in the parliamentary procedure two or three years ago. And then, as I am now, and I am pleased, I welcome, here I agree with all the assessments of this law that my colleagues and colleagues have highlighted and with this, I will say, small things, small remarks that should be removed, whether through the amendment of the bill, whether through the committee competent, whether through amendments possibly by the Ministry, it's totally irrelevant, but I think it's really about small technical corrections, not essential. And then we praised this bill. And then this law passed this House and something very interesting happened. At that time, different interest groups, which are very well suited to the unsettled situation in this area, were stronger than any of us MPs in this House. And I've been involved in a few discussions on the subject, and I have to say it's not sad, it would be funny what arguments they've been defending and freaking us out so Bog wouldn't let us pass this law. Here, I just came forward for this, don't let it, let's not all show up together again, because there are those who are interested here, but not that the process of demining will be better, more successful, and so on, but rather, personally, don't just let them be stronger than the needs and interests of all the citizens of this country that we really put this area in a system where it belongs and that we finally act systematically, I believe and have better results in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12372	Thank you. Dear Representative Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12373	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've come under the circumstances that in the last 2-3 years I've been hanging out with a man who's a 10-year professional deminer in the Armed Forces of BiH, he's an officer. A lot of the problems some people have brought out here I know and I don't want to bring them up again, but believe me, it's a very difficult situation, especially with our professional members of the Armed Forces who are still working where life is always about the end. One of the biggest problems they point to is this terrible mix-up so-called. private demining teams that this law right now needs to define and regulate. They've been causing them a lot of trouble. When it comes to material technical security and security of everything needed to work, there is a very difficult situation, believe me, a professional army, not only in people who are demining. There are cases that official Toyotas, specially designed for our deminers, don't have any fuel and people from their private cars are over-supplying. I mean, how long has the situation been going? Since a man works on a special team that goes to tasks where the need is indicated, according to statistics showing where civilians suffer the most from mines in mine fields, as marked in some that have not yet been marked, they are sent because they are the best specialists and are best trained, with a large number of atheists who have passed with the NATO alliance. I was interested in one other thing here, when I realized what it was about. Beneficiary work force system. I'm very, very hurt if someone abuses it, and if situations like this are happening right now, as it says here, that people who work in offices and simply and very 59 easily cheat on the state and get an unfettered job internship that never belongs to them. I spent 10 years in construction and 14 in mining. When it comes to the benefits of a job, you know very well who can get it and why. Let's say that the largest group of benefits, we have three groups that have been known since the EX Yugoslavia, apply today, when it comes to working relationships. That's 1:2, 1:4 and 1:6. So 12 months of age is added plus 2 months, that's the first category, the second is added another 4 months and the third is the rarest one added 6 months. This largest category is usually assigned to a building of kesons, people who work on dangerous explosives, in mining only people who work directly in cave excavations. So, the most difficult of human affairs that are being done. We don't mind giving this third category to people who work directly in the minefield and they certainly deserve it. That reward for fear can't be paid for anything. I think they're the only ones who own it. If you have people working in the field then there goes the field supplement one and it counts in the benefited work internship, that's this second category, when every year... it adds 2 months. So these are people who serve people who enter minefields. He can't have an unfettered internship the same one that goes into the minefield and the one that sits outside. It's really out of your mind. I don't know where that logic came from and how we've missed it so far. Here, let me just say, let me draw your attention to these moments that I know are there and I know that's how it happens, but believe me, our deminers are in a very, very difficult situation and I admire every mini they take out in the circumstances in which they live and work in BiH today. By this law, I believe their status will improve, and BiH will begin to reduce as much as possible those damn minefields that are destroying our lives today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12374	Thank you. We don't have any more charges to discuss, no more replicas. Finalising debate on point 9. Before moving to the 10th item of the agenda, I propose a law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in accordance with Article 27, point (f) of I limit the debate to 5 minutes in an attempt to try to complete the session today. So point 10, Ad. Ten. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading) The proposal for a Council of Ministers delivered the draft law in parliamentary procedure 11.10.2012. The respective Constitutional Legal Commission Opinion on constitutional basis and the principles of the Bill's proposal delivered on 06.11.2012. I am opening a debate on the bill's proposal in the first reading with the duration of the debate for five minutes. Here you go. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. 60 We move to the 11th agenda, Ad. 11. Proposal for a Law on Bosnia and Herzegovina Foundations – Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH (first reading)
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12377	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. You know the Association Act wasn't passed in the last session. We are in BiH now in force is the Law on Associations and Foundations. The idea is the Council of Ministers – the Ministry of Justice to do two special laws: the Law on Associations and the Law on Foundations. The law, and both came into parliamentary procedure, the Law on Associations at last session didn't pass here at the House of Representatives, and now we have the Foundations Act. Both laws predicted the situation that one could not pass, so the one who does not pass and the other one who does not pass that law remains in force under the earlier Joint Law on Foundations and Associations. I think it's one awkward situation and we on the Constitutional Legal Commission didn't want to, of course, return this, he formally meets all the conditions he needs to meet for first reading. We gave a positive opinion, but it wouldn't be bad for men not to come into the situation, if this were adopted today, if we had a law on the foundation that is in force, which regulates the area of the foundation and that we have the Law on Associations and Foundations in force in the section on the question of the association. That perhaps the minister of justice today took this opportunity, last time he was an assistant minister, to withdraw this law from the procedure and to fully do this area, because it's not worth having a law for one area and not having a law for another area. But here, however the minister decides, I think it would be best than waiting, we don't know how it's going to go today, if it's the logic of last time it won't go away. But the right to tell you, I'm also worried about the case if you'd pass. I can't vote against him, but I'm worried about what if he goes through both in the first and second readings, given that an earlier law that governs half the area, so the question of the association didn't go through. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12378	Thank you. Dear Representative Beriz Belkić, here's the debate. 61
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12379	The same thing I wanted to say, only I think we should do two things – either bring it down absolutely today, or if it's possible for a business person to propose it, I'm surprised that the promoter didn't react. So it's impossible, if today this law is passed we're making a legal mess... If you think it's not an honor, adopt. So you have the Law of Associations and Foundations and now you have the Special Act on Foundations and it's the same matter, it's arranged. If the promoter says, here's the man saying no problem, great, adopt this law no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12380	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12381	I'll do it very briefly. We, on the Constitutional Legal Committee, touched these issues, and we were quite satisfied with the explanation that we heard and somehow prevailed, prevailed over the thought that it was better and this way than to be left without a regulated area in this way. I will briefly warn only, given that the law is in the first reading, there is plenty of time to work on it, in my opinion, there is an insufficiently regulated situation which can arise from any changes to the statutes of some foundation which, therefore, has already passed the registration process and then at that stage changes the statutes of power indeed happen to alter the statute so radically or so significantly to accept those characteristics which, when requested for registration, would not have passed the process. I think it would be good to process it further or in Article 45 which speaks of a ban on work or in Article 44 which speaks about the conditions and method of erasure from the register. There you go. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12382	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on item 11, I'm sorry I didn't see, the minister wants to clarify. Here you go, Mr. Čolak.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12383	The Honorable Presidents and Honorable Representatives. I just want to say that it's possible, so we pass this law as it was possible to pass that law, but if it doesn't, then enough hands to give it knows what fate will be. But these solutions that have been proposed are really possible. We can propose these two laws together tomorrow, nothing guarantees that these two laws will pass. So, to come, to come to the same session with the same solutions, with certain improvements. So it's up to you, of course, to the MPs, what you're going to do. Thank you. 62
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12384	I thank Mr. Minister, so I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We're moving on to item 12 of the agenda, Ad. 12. Report on BHRT's work and business for 2011, material of BiH Radio-Television Management Board The BiH Radio-Television Management Board delivered the Report in accordance with the Public TV Service Act of BiH on 30.04.2012. At its 14th session, the competent Committee for Transport and Communications concluded that it is not considering the Report because it is necessary for the Management Board of BHRT to submit an independent audit report to the House on the business of BHRT for 2011, as well as to draw up a plan for the resolution and financial consolidation of BHRT. It also concluded that it is necessary to remove technical errors in the Report and make up its addition. 16.10.2012.The BiH Radio-Television Management Board submitted a 2011 report on the work and business of BHRT with the built-in corrections and the Revik Audited House Report from Sarajevo on the revision – the 2010 and 2011 financial report of BHRT. The Committee for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion on 05.11.2012. I'm opening a debate on the report. A distinguished representative, Dušanka Majkić, came forward for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12386	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. I don't think we have a basis for discussing this point tonight. That's what I'm saying. So, Radio-Radio-televizija, or BHRT Management Board, has provided us with several documents. The first document is called the 2011 report on BHRT's work and business. Since I won't be able to, if you won't listen, we won't be able to get out of this, so they've delivered us three documents. The first document is the report on the work and business of BHRT, which is the responsibility of the Commission for Transport and Communications. The second document they provided us with is called the Revik Auditor's Report from Sarajevo on the 2010 and 2011 revision of the financial operations of BHRT. That is why we need a report from the Joint Commission on Finance and the budget of which it is jurisdiction. And the third document they delivered to us is called the Rehabilitation Plan and the financial consolidation of BHRT, where it also needs the Commission's opinion on finance and budget. So we don't have the whole material covered by analysis by the competent authorities. I also believe that what the Transport and Communications Commission did was not specifically looking back, but also taking a look at it at all, but that it did not address the specific issues of the 2011 report on BHRT's work. I therefore propose that paragraph 1, so the 2011 report on the work and business of BHRT be returned to the competent commission for a re-enactment and that paragraph 2, means the report of the audit house and the plan for recovery and financial consolidation, which will deliver its opinion to the Finance and Budget Commission, and with the opinion here, we will be able to discuss this. This is a great material, and it's really not possible in this way to make a statement about it. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12387	Thank you. Ismet Dervoz, the esteemed representative, came forward for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12388	Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As a member of the Transport and Communications Commission, I voted in favour of accepting these documents delivered by BiH Radio-Television for several reasons. First of all, because the Commission has indeed, in this period since we entered the mandate, made an endless effort to produce interaction and response by BHRT in a way that respects and aligns our obligations and responsibilities as representatives and members of the Commission of the competent and parliamentarians in the Parliamentary Assembly and the BHRT as broadcasters who send their reports to this House of Parliament for confirmation and adoption. So, finally, after a long period of time, we managed to get a response from BHRT that respected several of our Commission's demands and thus enabled us to eventually open a process that would lead to faster work in order to heal BHRT as an institution and bring to a function that it really must have, and that is a responsibility to citizens as a public broadcaster. This report, which we have received, are all members of the Transport and Communications Commission indeed read very carefully and we have even dealt with the individual elements of the financial report. We can't say that we're satisfied except for the fact that BHRT has shown positive business in this period although, of course, it has the legacy of those negative years before, so it has a negative balance, but it seems that some things move a little in advance when it comes to it. What's my point is that it's obviously been spared on what can't be saved. The programming costs are 23% lower than the plan, and smaller than the period, the same period last year by as much as 46%. That's what needs to be worried about, and that's what needs to be our action towards BHRT as a public broadcaster. The only thing that matters is the program, and that's their basic task, and it can't be saved on that. I'd like to say a few words about what you never talk about when we talk about BHRT, that's the letter R in this keybinding, and that's Radio BiH. That's a better part of this emitter. The BiH Radio fully performs its function, their editorials for culture, science, education, especially the documented drama programme with very modest means, which is to be seen from the financial report, do indeed work of public interest. What should be done is certainly as soon as possible to get a new Public Broadcasting Board that, then, I'm sure, in a healthier way, without these clues that keep emerging from this bad situation that has been related to BHRT for the past few years, perhaps more realistic, more correct and energetically responding to all the needs that are reflected in what is called the recovery and financial reconstruction of this emitter. We didn't get here, it's true, Mrs. Majkić is right, this isn't even a real recovery plan, nor is this a complete reconstruction plan, but it shouldn't possibly be expected from gentlemen who have been out of office for four years and who are obviously not dealing with BHRT in the right way. My suggestion is to accept this report and give, through the vote of the new members of the Management Board, the possibility of BHRT taking a new swing and in the right way. Thank you. 64
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12389	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12390	The Honorable Chairman. I don't think you understood what I said. And I said that there was obviously a mistake with the College, because the College only saw the first item and it provided, so the plan, the report on work and business, and gave it to the competent commission. The other two items are not in the jurisdiction of the Commission but of the Finance and Budget Commission. And every year, the Finance and Budget Commission discusses that part of the material. So we don't have processed material, we don't have two parts of the material processed by the competent commission. And in this material that the Transport and Communications Commission has provided, this is the story only of these materials. There's nowhere to be defined in the report. I ask you to forward these two materials to the committee responsible, and that is the Commission for Finance and Budget, and that we have a debate afterwards. This Commission cannot discuss finance and audit reports, it is not your jurisdiction. I beg you, therefore, that the three materials you have obtained are given to the competent commission.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12391	Thank you. So I may have understood but I didn't follow the arguments. So...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12392	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12393	But perhaps the chairman of the committee, Mr. Kunić, will help, because we have already opened most of the votes, so this report, I was even abstentioned to tell you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12394	Thank you, Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I think Mrs. Majkić is right about the Business Report, i.e. the recovery plan and consolidation. I think this should go to the board of directors, it's the Finance Commission. We didn't even engage in a debate about recovery and consolidation, so we didn't discuss it, as far as I can remember, but we discussed work and that's where we took the stand. And I don't know why it would go back to the Commission since we're not going to do anything new, we're not going to get any new knowledge, there's no need for that to come back. It can be given to these committees in charge, wait for them to be picked up, but returning to this Commission has no basis, no reason. Namely, as my esteemed colleague Dervos said, one... positive trend we saw in the fact that Radio-Television was doing a positive job for this past year, which is significant and which points to the possibility of a positive business. In fact, there have been very many complaints about 65 programming schemes, on the programme, on the work of this television as there are major objections to the work of entity televisions, state public services which, in my deep conviction, are not in the role of citizens but are in the role of political elites, therefore leading political elites. And that, in my opinion, is the biggest problem in BiH when it comes to public services, they are under the influence of politics and are not in the role of citizens. And that is the fundamental thing that this Parliament should work on and possibly give guidance, if anyone respects and respects us at all, given that we have become a bit of a transmission of political leaders' decisions. So I think that this proposal, in terms of the plan for recovery and consolidation, is to refer to the relevant commission as well as the work and business to consider this. And as far as we're concerned, I think that we, that we've been manifested, gave our point of view, and there's no need to discuss this anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12395	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd just like to remind you that we've been looking for an audit report besides the radio-television report. And we got that, and with these materials we discussed it on the competent commission. In the debate, we also mentioned the issue of recovery. And now we've reached a conclusion, from that Commission last, we've also received elements of the radio-television recovery program. Therefore, the Communications Commission has carried out its part of the work, it has made appropriate conclusions and recommendations as appropriate and I do not think it is necessary to transfer the responsibility and debate now to the competent Commission for Finance and Budget as it is a very important difference. This is about the business finances of the company, and the Commission on Budgets and Finance deals with public finances, i.e. budgets, public money included in the budget. ThereforeMajkić don't get so excited about these words. I don't think I'm that annoying, I mean that tomorrow we're going to discuss the Derk Report, the Independent System Operator Report, so if we're going to transfer the financial aspects to the Finance and Budget Commission. We must have the competence to discuss the business part of the finance when we are discussing the business of companies that are of public interest and who are giving us their reports. Otherwise, with my proposal to adopt this report, I want to say one finding that, which I also made on the commission, which is that Radio-Radio-televizija is in a very complex situation, that the fact that it has achieved some small gain in 2011 does not mean much, is not proof of stabilisation. More likely, the company is in a very unstable state because it has a large debt of 21 million against the capital of 16 million. This is a very unfavourable ratio of debt and capital and also indicates insolvency and the company's inequitableness. This is evidence of high obligations towards suppliers who dominate the structure of short-term obligations. 66 Otherwise, our responsibility should be, in addition to what is the public function of the broadcaster, which is actually a public function of Radio-Radio-televizija, and the fact that capital in that company is strongly eroded, a great erosion of capital has been achieved. The founding capital was 38 million and 21.8 million were eaten through the loss and the capital is currently 16.3 million. I think that the essence of the recovery programme, the essence of the restructuring programme, I do not want and could never support the term "sanitary programme", must be a restructuring programme that will also have a market aspect, which will have a financial aspect, and an organisational aspect, and an aspect of the reorganisation in terms of human resources, technology and so on. And I think its essence should be precisely that, in addition to creating conditions for the quality of the programme, it should also ensure the financial stability of the company. Otherwise, I think this should be the task of the new Management Board, and I think there is nothing more logical than to adopt this Report at the end of 2012, to make recommendations to the new Management Board for the energy implementation of the restructuring programme and to expect significant results in the restructuring of the company, including the establishment of a public service corporation in BiH, to be achieved in 2013. So my conclusion is, my recommendation is to adopt this programme, as the Commission has actually approved, without expanding our activities because we will enter into 2013 and we will practically have no purpose since the adoption of this programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12397	Thank you. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12398	So I'm just saying, really, everyone should read the jurisdiction of their committees. Here, Article 45, Professor, clearly defines what your commission's jurisdiction is. Maybe you as a man have the affinity to deal with finance. Then you should have been in the Finance and Budget Committee, not the Communications Commission. So, the Finance and Budget Commission is, that's her jurisdiction. I am the third time in Parliament, and no one from the Finance and Budget Commission has discussed audit reports and consolidation reports, so no one has ever. If we're going to make new rules, I want to know that's the case, but this is the first time and it's a precedent. I think it's the consequence that people didn't pay attention to it and that it's actually the mistake of a college who didn't see that it was three materials and not one. And in the end of the report, the opinion on the Work and Business Report, the one that you delivered, shows nothing. So it turns out that you came back once and that it was fixed once and that Revik's auditory house delivered, not a single sentence of what it is, in fact, what it looks like. Where are these results that have been born... by business, which are the result. So, what was your duty, you didn't write a single sentence, and you're talking about what wasn't your duty. Return to the Finance Commission what's her job.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12399	Thank you. Since there's no one to announce me for the replica, I'm going to announce myself. 67 Dear Representatives Majkić do not stand these remarks at the expense of the College. So, the College received a report from the Committee for Transport and Links, which found that the Committee after the debate, with 3 votes to, 2 votes against and 1 abstentioned vote, accepted the report and proposed that the House of Representatives adopt a report on the work and business of BiH Radio-Television for 2011. On the other hand, the Committee, and I am a member of this Committee, and I was at that session, as I said I was then restrained, the Commission found that the requested materials were delivered, and took note of the plan for the recovery and financial consolidation of BHRT. So we didn't adopt him because we're not even in charge. As for the second report, the report of an independent business audit, it was also delivered after this was not recommended in the first review for sending it to the House, so I'm talking about the Committee. I think that, no matter what, so then I was restrained, I think I should go this report to the House, I should go for adoption. I, even though I was restrained at the time, will support him here at the House today, because I appreciate even though the little progress BHRT has made and should give them the chance to continue that direction. And I also think that we can reconcile, fellow Majkić, and these demands of yours, and if you think when you vote, you suggest that these two reports are directed to the competent committees, it is now my thinking here, but that does not prevent us from discussing today this report that the Authority has accepted in the proper procedure and delivered to this House. Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12400	Thank you. As a member of the Transport and Communications Commission, I would like to make my opinion known. As for how we vote, at least me, I'll consult with my party colleagues and see how we do. However, here I would like to say also to the President of our Commission that last time I had one comment when we discussed the report, the president was in a way these, mildly, moderately, but what I wanted and expected to debate really at least the financial report of this subject, because if we already got that, let us talk about it. I would also agree with my colleague, Majkić, that in some way, the Finance and Budget Committee, whether it should be discussed or only on the commission, I would not, I do not have any insight into these responsibilities in previous periods as to how this, who has debated everything and brought conclusions and opinions. However, what I would like to meet my fellow Members and colleagues of this Parliament is that what can be seen from this Financial Report, which has been a special pleasure to me that they have invoiced 72 million marks, but that they have charged 52, that was in 2011. However, it also applied in 2010 and I do not know in previous years. When we take it so that they don't charge 40%, it just reminds me in the economy what it means when 40% I don't cash or charge from my suppliers, something's wrong. So I can say that the leadership of this, so it's already in front of bankruptcy. However, it is said here that it is also a matter of profit. I can certainly say that there is no profit, there is deep dubiousness, and at the end of the day the amounts they would have cashed over the past few years, I think they can certainly measure fifty million marks not charged. Whether it's outdated, whether it's general, relatively outdated, it needs to be seen. But I think there's a lot of things that have been missed, or at the end of the day, who's carrying the responsibility to be recognized here. 68 However, I believe that the loss of this company according to certain information is said to be between 20 million and 30 million marks, which no one can confidently say how much it is. As for income and expenditure, if they were like this, I also pointed out on one of the previous commissions and asked to be presented to us who, in which area, and how many BHRT users are there? What are the legal, physical people who pay, don't pay, where are these gravitating points, what are they doing in that part to solve this problem? Unfortunately, I didn't get that answer, although I truly want this house to work, and I also said on the commission the last time I said how many invoices they could swim in money. However, I still believe that they have a good basis, have in some way a monopoly, cascade, collect, but it seems in that incasation and charge are not in my opinion so high and skilled that they come to the money they have is necessary. As for my own perception of the problem, they have court rulings that have been conducted for many years, however... The BHRT did not welcome any of these court rulings in the first degree, nor did the first-degree verdict be met. What's going on here? There she is again, I can say the responsibility of management. As for the audit reports, I must honestly say that the reports are also listed, not to say, quite badly and warning the views of the auditors, which is also this management, the management of this system must be addressed and, if it wants to run it, some things have to be slightly different to understand and this system is governed by the laws. It is pointed out that the failure is done as auditors first of all, here's only on one of these, this is what I'm going to end up with, says – the registration of ownership and the value of basic capital is in some way controversial, the formation of a corporation of public tv services and there are already known problems. Construction and equipment are shown at the cost of purchase increased for later revaluations, since previously used revaluation coefficients are not in line with the market value of certain funds and they are not the appropriate basis for the revaluation of these, we know what it means. Property of real estate or buildings is controversial. Irregular classification of fixed assets, income from marketing, not to mention there are also in decline, and litigation disputes being conducted by BHRT and against BHRT as well as possible effects of these judgments. There's no resources for a joke, which means that this system depends on court rulings in every case. It could be a very difficult situation, given the other side of the financial opportunity. I believe that in this system and through the management itself it is necessary and urgent to react in all these notes that are also auditors, and these reports that indicate. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12401	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Ismeta Dervoz, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12402	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, only the correction of the wrongful quote of the distinguished colleague and member of the Joint Commission. Namely, Mr. Jagodić, it is not in BHRT's ingenuities, the payment of the RTT fee, the fees made by the broadcasters are subjective, and therefore this is what BHRT cannot influence in any way, so that they cannot be respected as a lack of activity. And as for some of the reports that were before our Finance Commission earlier, they seem to be, I was not in that mandate, so I allow you to correct me, in 2007 and 2008 the Office for Audit 69 BiH institutions dealt with the BHRT audit reports and, following its findings, referred opinions to the Finance and Budget Commission. I thank you once again, Mr President, for explaining precisely that the Commission has received these reports without having discussed them in a way that we have declared ourselves competent, nor have we given any opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12403	Thank you. Dear Representative Petar Kunić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12404	It's very short for me to say. In fact, this Commission cannot solve the problems that have arisen for years. I am here a great supporter of the legality of the work, great, but please nice, what is this Parliament, at least I've been sitting here for two years, what has it done in that direction? Is there a political will in this country to move anything and get rid of it? And here's the crime, please let's be open, there's also a lot of crime, unauthorized work, abuse of authority, positions, etc. So what do our dear organs do that and how do we pay, what does the SIPA do, what do the police do, what do law enforcement do? Do they even exist in BiH? Except they're arresting someone for 10, two, three, two, three kilos of drugs. I ask the questions. We'll deal with it very well, I'm telling you it's inevitable. Mr. Jagodić says that I was there, too, mildly, so I won't hit with a fist of a hundred, those times have passed, the time of authority and the opportunity to impose my will on others, it is no longer current, it is not productive, Mr. Jagodić. So we've all looked at this report and we've seen where, where the problems are. So there's a problem with business, irresponsibility, borrowing, giving jobs to lawyers who earn no idea what money on it, etc., various kinds of speculations. But it is a matter of this Parliament to consider and to draw conclusions about it. Has this Parliament sent anything to the SIPA so far? It seems to me that I've been beating up some papers here that are for the SIPA, the SIPA hasn't yet, and I don't suppose they'll do anything about it. What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] It's easy for you to think of me. So I don't see any more reason to talk about this report, all of us see, see the competent authorities that need to work on these reports. We can only say in Parliament that we deliver this to the competent authorities to carry out certain actions where suspicious business here is and how much. So I ask the question when we discuss audit reports, we'll talk here again as last year, criticise, and in the end there's no effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12406	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić, debate. Here you go. 70
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12407	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen. I would very much like to support the pro-Jedlog Ms. Majkić to have one piece, that is, to return this report to the Commission for Budget and Finance and to discuss the financial aspect on the Commission. It may not be best defined by law, but in this House, perhaps in some other composition, a law has been passed on the basis of which the separation for BHT and etc. is carried out. We have here, when we look at these financial aspects then we have, individually, and we watch if BH Telekom charges about 40% or say Telekom m:thetel charges significant funds unlike Eronet that doesn't charge anything quite small. It's supposed to mean a little deeper into the essence and core. But here, if that's what I'm afraid Parliament won't make a decision, but then let me at least say a few words about the programme that is, that is, the report we've been given here. I don't like BHT being in sixth place and taking 50% of the total subscription, and compared to Federal TV and TVRS, it's only sixth. He wouldn't even be in sixth place if he hadn't rented these game broadcasts, and so on, it'd probably be on a much lower level. As for the number of employees, it is difficult to see the exact number of employees, especially BH, especially RTRS, I am not sure, but one of these says that, let's not say that I am here, but the national structure is far from satisfying the national structure in BiH. So for these reasons, and on this plan, we need it when this report is, because if we are founders, then we have the right to make certain remarks. But unfortunately, we don't have a chance to tell anyone today because there's no representative here, no board of directors, no BHTV, which means they are, too, if anyone is present, I'm sorry, but I haven't, I haven't noticed. For these reasons, it would be good for them to say here, too, maybe they have problems they're facing, so we could come up with a common solution. The 9th page talks about projects that TV production is doing. I, as far as I've seen none of these productions are done in RS, so I don't know the way it's chosen and so on. I see that the costs of the total subscription are 50%, of the total income, somewhere around 19 million goes to wages and transportation, etc., a warm meal. And in the second month I don't see any special interest in advertising revenues, 3.6 million were in 2011, and 4.5 in 2010. I'm not sure they're sufficiently interested in providing income on that basis, but just waiting for that subscription. But they must impose themselves on their programme, they must approach this in a completely different way and must account or, yes, here to this Parliament which created the conditions for their work or someone else as the Federal TV lays down to Parliament of the Federation or the TVRS of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In that sense, it would be good to have representatives here too, so we can hear them too. Unfortunately, they don't come because they don't think we can do much more, and as far as I know, this law wasn't passed by any special will, but by imposing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12408	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12409	Dear Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. 71 So they're already warning colleagues how many of them are here in Parliament, and here I'm going to say, six years, every year we have a situation like this. Whatever we get the report, all the problems go away, so let them publish and criticize, from the editorial policy and their programme, everyone goes from there and then reflect on the bad financial situation later. My colleagues used to speak well, and this is what we've done if we're the founder, never this Parliament at least as far as Srbin are concerned would never vote, and the reputation of the Hrvat would never accept that television because you don't have a channel in your language, you've all been saying that for years and you should clearly say it here. Furthermore, TVRS is the only business that is positive, but this way of collecting subscription and such a programme will lead to economic difficulties next year. Why? So people all contact citizens, so I have countless calls from people who say – I don't want to pay TV, or tax because TVBH is directed against Srbin. Next, does it have to go here, here's an example of where it's going, does a TV crew have to go and spend huge money to report from the Cannes Film Festival? No matter what movie they're showing in Cannes, come on, man, we got our own problems here. Furthermore, no one alive can count how many BH delegations are reportedly and how much they spend. What a Eurosong man, we'll never be busy, and if we were the first to be the only ones who would load BiH to fund the Eurosong organization, ask Bog how much millions would cost both marks and so on. and so on. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I'll sing to you without Eurosong, come on. Still, so all the problems are coming, and tomorrow you'll be like this, first I beg Bog not to be called into any program, but that's so if you say what's true. For the first maybe years, I've advocated putting this television on its feet, but how. To clear up all the dubiosis and financial problems and just when it was supposed to come to order, this old board of directors, who at the time was, goodbye, and left huge losses and no one to call them. And what the esteemed colleague Tomić said, and everyone was saying, said Professor Kunić, what are our law enforcement authorities doing? So did I ask last year for audit reports that all the directors of the institutions sitting here, the SIPA, the OSA, the D.A., the director of one, the other, the third and fourth when they have no place, and I'm standing, they're sitting in this row, asking them all what they're doing, that's BHTV. So you'll have a report from Banja Luka in that program in 22 minutes, and the first minute is Circle 99. Circle 99 is a human NGO. No one in the RS cares about what's going on there. Why not submit one report from any NGO from Banja Luka or some institution, but a report from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia 14. Minita. Why do I know exactly these minutes because I'm the only one watching that TV so I can criticize it, that I can tell the truth, that other Srbin aren't watching it, that nobody's watching it alive but me, but I'm looking at it all the time. And I'll write down a few minutes, when I'm an editor. So the report here, and the report on that, people telling you as a friend, a colleague, it's all coming from the program, that it's a good program, but I'm not going to watch TVRS, even though I'm fighting for it, I'm going to watch BH1 because I'm going to see things there. But I'll see a lot of things against the RS and the Serbian people, and then normally people won't pay. And from there are all these dubious things, all these problems. Well then never the national structure, 763 employees of the show's technology, three Srbin. Bog save you and put away what my neighbor would say, this is that Bog saves worse than Bog 72 saves. And now tonight, I'm asking Bog to call me, I'd like to be a guest so I can tell them what you're doing, you just call the Srbin here... you make fun of him or when you have a report from someone in Banja Luka... if someone's going to walk in that park, how, I can't be here, I'm not going to express myself what they called him... _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12412	Honorable MP time, and let fellow MPs finish in peace, please. Five minutes of discussion is limited.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12413	So you know what they're getting? Because they don't watch that TV because they have no idea what's being broadcast there.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12414	I warned me and the MPs about peace in the assembly, and I'm also warning you in time.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12415	Mr. Chairman, I know you're watching too. Because you're looking at the channel, justifiably, in your language, which I support, and I'm watching because of these accidents that are directed against RS all news. So look how, for a time there was a wave of Srbin employment, that led like, I have nothing against editors and how many Srbin are now left and those who have fled to RS. They saw that there was no bread, that it was impossible to survive the Srbin to work and that any news from the RS was affirmative. Here's to say one affirmative, to say every honour, I will pay the subscription separately, the fee to the television RS, and especially to them in the same amount, but that's impossible. So...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12416	Time is at 5 minutes limited, you're already a minute and a half over.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12417	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, that's five minutes, otherwise you'd be talking free of charge. Thank you very much. 73
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12418	Thank you. I could really listen to you more, but we've limited everyone's time, so then we need to be fair to everyone. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12419	Thank you, Chairman. I would say, however, that the esteemed colleague Jovičić is very much looking at BHT, given that we are very detailed here in the minute when the contribution is coming. I don't watch BHT, Mr. Jovičić, unfortunately like you pay both BHT and RTRS, and I watch those TVs that are free and professional, that's BN and Alternative TV. But here, I see how it bothers you, you say – you don't have to pay for these TVs. I invite you, here we are from the SDS, to give you our laws that we have sent here in the parliamentary procedure, which abolishes the TV subscription and here we give them to you and now you refer them to the parliamentary procedure, and we will vote for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12420	Thank you. Dear Representative Mato Franjičević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12421	A kolega, Jovičić, said that all the problems stem from the programme, from a software concept that is such, only partly agree with it, I think that all problems stem from a general concept agreed on by the RTTV system in BiH, and it is agreed if I am not mistaken, and the contours were agreed long ago in late 2003 at a three-prime meeting, two entity and one state, of which, you will all guess, none were Hrvat. The concept that was then agreed, the general concept of the Public TV System in BiH, and this Service, which we are now discussing, is one of the components of the system, is such that some national functions of each of the members of the Public TV system have already been routed. And in the meantime, over time, these public services of ours, you can take this publicly with or without quotes, along with these national functions that they received, have received, have received party functions, not to say party functions. So instead of public service, unfortunately through a program that defils in front of our eyes, if we have the nerves to look at it all, we actually see the same party profiling that goes even up in some cases, when it comes to BHT being honest, it's not the case, but in some cases it goes to actually looking at party bulletins that are completely subordinated and are functioned by certain political parties. I will only remind you, given that the debate of my colleagues, Jovičić, prompted me not to say that she provoked me, that this system was part of which BHT, that the Law on the Public System and the Law on this Public Service was passed without any Croatian vote at any level, and even when vital interest was raised, it failed in the Constitutional Court by revoted judges of Croatian nationality sitting there. That's enough talking about ours here and now that it's about this problem. And since I have twice launched an initiative towards the Council of Ministers to finally respect the conclusion of the House of Peoples in the previous session, to approach the amendments to the laws governing this area, I think it is unnecessary for me to pursue the same thing for the third time. I just want to express hope that it will mature or that it has matured consciousness at this level that finally something will be done so that we will all experience BHT and Federal TV and TVRS and the General Public TV system in BiH as something that is ours and that the Croatian people, and in areas where the subscription is collected by HT Mostar, we all know what payment is and subscription, so that Croatian people will feel that it also has an emitter that expresses its identity features and that, of course, it will also be reflected in the payment of that RTV tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12422	Thank you. Dear Representative Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12423	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So the replica of the esteemed colleague Pandurević. I don't know why she's replicating me, nothing caused me, when I didn't mention the SDS or her or the private television where they are, but I'm talking about the Republika Srpska Public Service. And their proposal is that we get a new potato here hot, that we're supposed to be looking for money in the budget to save this biggest loser BHT, and that's to indirectly eliminate the TVRS that, with a reduced budget anyway, out of 50% for BHTV, comes into big trouble. But here, to tell you the truth, this proposal you made, it's against TVRS, and I'm not defending it, but you're a star there, I haven't been there for five years, if you want to know, on that TV. You're also on that TV star and let's, I congratulate you, I always look at you. You're television, on all private TV stars and I welcome you. And I was when I was on TV every day for the first two years, so that time went by. Now I pray to Bog that I'm not on any of them, because as soon as you're somewhere one of them will tell you – I do this smart guy every honour, and 30 percent or 70% of them -- who brings this fool on TV. So you don't have the benefit of saying it tonight, and you've already made an advance statement about this without even knowing what the debate is going to be. So, I never call you, I don't mention you, but your suggestion that a budget subscription is directly directed against the TVRS. I don't know what bothers you when you're there, interview you, report you, guest you, debate you. They pass me by, the press won't greet me here and all my friends won't take a statement. Then you know who's taking my statement? Those from Sarajevo I really respect, I guess the Srbin won't respond, so they find me, as a backup player, even those statements won't be. And that's why, colleague Pandurević, please this is the fourth time, it's easy for you to watch TV BH1 here when you live in Sarajevo, so use the privilege of taking drivers as president of the Commission, so you come here every day. I, Miss Pandurević, when I come to the session, will be driven by my colleague Boško Tomić, he is my driver, when I come to the committee meetings, pay my colleague because his car doesn't go to the air, pay for my colleague, fuel, pay for everything. And if I were to tell you something else, but no one is allowed to see me, I'm the only MP in this council who hasn't opened the door to the register in two years, and I couldn't go to Travnik, I can't go to Sokolac on my official trip, because they'd tell me you'd have no right to the daily, but if you'd charged to Han Pijesk. Therefore, do not impute it to me, as to me as a man who has never said anything against you and will not say anything. After all, let me tell you one more time, I founded you, SDS, you weren't even. 75
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12424	I thank my colleague Jovičić. He would only reach; the star is a star day and night, invisible, so he is always a star, what you will do. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. And since there aren't any deputies here, I'd like to consult with you, we still have a lot of agenda points, many of them very demanding. We have two options - to continue our work or to stop the session, so we can continue tomorrow at 10:00. [[Common discussion]] Okay, let's get back to work, and then we'll get there. We're going to the 13th agenda, Ad. 13. Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2011, BiH Presidency material
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12427	Thank you very much. Here, I will not hope to cause other reactions, I would like to just comment briefly and give support to these reports that were, the 2011 Budget Report, with the hope that we will receive reports regularly in the coming periods, but that it will not be on the basis of temporary funding, because we know that this is one of the worst variations that can be when the budget is adopted and when you look at the expenditures of the institutions you see that they are realised with 99.7% of what it says in itself. And I don't think there was any reason not to be 100% because we adopted the budget after the fiscal year, which could have even happened. 76 What I think should be done for the next period of these activities, that there are no circumstances like this, because the temporary financing of the defacto is the best obstruction for the functions that the state has to do, and through what we often put on criticism ourselves, we see that we are one of the culprits that makes it so. And I think here in the last year, in the current year, we had the budget that we adopted, so over the course of the fiscal year. And I think through its realization, here's what we've achieved is that it's not temporary funding, and I think it's the best way to defacto through the behavior of all our functions to give the best support to one quality budget, including his report on its realization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12428	Thank you. Next up for the discussion, distinguished counterpart Mladen Ivanković Lijanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12429	Thank you. The budget is one of the most important documents after the Constitution and clearly defined by both the Constitution and the law. I, in the Constitution, Article 4(1). The BiH Constitution is said to - every year the Parliamentary Assembly adopts, on a proposal from the Presidency, the Budget that finances the costs necessary for the execution, the relevance of BiH institutions and international obligations of BiH. The process of preparing and adopting the law on the Budget of BiH institutions and international obligations is defined by the Law on the financing of BiH institutions. And the law says, point 10, Article 10. The proposal and adoption of the budget – The Council of Ministers is obliged to submit the draft budget to the BiH Presidency for the following year by 15 October of the year at the latest, so what has already been broken. In line with its own Rules of Procedure, the BiH Presidency is required to submit the draft budget to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly by 01 November of the current year, as it was broken. The Parliamentary Assembly should adopt this by 31 December, and since these are late, we will probably be late again. So we're, I'm also a member of the Committee on Finance and Budget, and we put that in the conclusion. I therefore underline once again, the 2011 Budget unfortunately was adopted, i.e. in the Official Messenger, on 1402.2012, in 1402.2012, in the Official Messenger, the 2011 Budget came out. It seems that we have continued, and that is why I said that I am dissatisfied with the work of the Council of Ministers today, and the key to all problems is just at the beginning, undefined and irresponsible relationship, therefore according to the means. And so once again, here's why I'm undermining what we at the Committee have adopted to stick with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12430	Thank you. Discussion, Reverend Darko Babalj. Here you go. 77
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12431	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. Well, here, I won't talk much about the budget. I know what Budget is, we adopted it, this execution of Budget, and he is who he is here before us. I thought I'd ask the chairman of the Council of Ministers, but he's gone. We are discussing the Budget Report and there is no Council of Ministers chairman, unfortunately there is no Finance Minister, too, to whom I was going to ask a question. And then all I have left is to ask us all a question, because if I don't remember, if my mind serves, as I recall, about a year ago, we had a report here, too, and the Budgets only for the previous year, and we MPs made one conclusion, or we made one decision. Analyzing and watching this Budget, namely the execution of the Budžet on the 131st page, where the accumulated surplus income schedule is said, Table 7a) in point 1.6, writes again the dedicated funds under the High Representative's Decision, and the withdrawal, the funds of the Serbian Democratic Party. If memory serves me, and I still think it serves me, that we all voted here, or that that conclusion was made, that conclusion is not respected. What else should happen is that someone respects something and what needs to happen and who should order someone if not, if Parliament is not respected by the largest legislative authority of this country, which we are talking about both at the previous point and at those points. I don't, I just don't have a man need to answer anymore, because then these calls we're just increasing one circus. So again, I remind myself that we voted to return that money to the Serbian democratic party. Here, I can see they're not returned. Of course I won't suggest we make another conclusion because he won't drink water. I'm just asking all of us together not to play any more games with us, I mean with this Dom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12432	I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 14th point, Ad. 14. Report on Financial Audit Report 2011 BiH institutions Budget, material of BiH Institutions Audit Office The BiH institutions' audit office submitted a report in 28/09/2012 and in accordance with Article 16(2). Law on the revision of BiH institutions. On 01.11.2012, the Financial and Budget Commission submitted its opinion. The Commission adopts two conclusions and proposes to adopt them to the House. The conclusions read as follows: 1. The House of Representatives asks the Ministry of Finance to analyse in detail the content of the 2011 Audit Report and to approach the comprehensive implementation of all the recommendations of the revision. 2. The House of Representatives tasks the Council of Ministers, within 30 days, to draw up a plan for the production of missing regulations, to instruct single rules for budgetary users with established priorities, holders of commitments and dynamics of realization, and to require the established holders of 78 obligations to implement the plan in due time, all to improve and prevent the cause of occurrence or recurrence of numerous audit findings in future audit reports. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12434	Just a few sentences. I'm sorry I wasn't when the previous point was open, only so much if you would suggest that those two points are discussed together. Because the budget for, the implementation of the budget for 2011, is as much as it is, but the revision of the 2011 budget report is negative. So that's the fourth negative report BiH institutions received for 2011. It's the first time at all, this is the year of negative reports, the first time we've ever had negative reports, and in particular we have four negative reports. What's the basis for an opinion? The key is that a large number of recommendations are unrealised, I think, in 2010. This internal control system, which everyone is already talking about so much, would already be time for the revision to say exactly which segment and what is no longer the office, because obviously institutions don't know what to do to change that item. And what is seen, too, is a lack of rules that would systematically determine the frameworks of behaviour in terms of rational consumption. The audit says unequivocally bought exclusively expensive cars, expensive equipment, rolling stock is often changed, travelling business class. Remember when you were traveling business class? They rent high-class hotels, participate in seminars and conferences whose participation there is highly questionable. These are the things that are enough for every serious man and every citizen of this country to imagine. It's a terrible thing that every year, almost no year has passed that we haven't said that the Law of Salaries adopted in 2008 still lacks a sublegal act. Since 2008, the Ministry of Finance has not made sub-registration acts, although each year the revision irrevocably repeats the same recommendations. The single account management of the vault has not been improved. What does that mean? How much of this recommendation review still needs to be made? An increased number of court disputes. In this country, no one cares about a large number of court disputes that we don't even know how we're going to be touched when it comes to the budget locked down until 2014. What was the relationship of the institutions according to previous recommendations of the audit? Yes, for information, to remind ourselves only in 2010 the revision was made on the report on the revision of the Budget's Implementation Report 81 recommendations. How long has it been realized? Six, only six recommendations have been made. 17 recommendations are under way, and 36 recommendations are not implemented. According to the audit, the rest couldn't be measured because it was temporary funding. Who finds fault, who's to blame? The audit also says unequivocally – the Council of the Minstars and Parliament. And yes, we are the biggest culprits because we are the first partners of the review and we have done nothing for years and we are the key culprits for allowing the situation to repeat itself every year and not to advance in anything. And citizens should go after us first. How is it possible that nearly 1,000 employees are newly employed in the year when temporary funding is made? Is there any answer to that? And why in the world are we having this debate here without any member of the Council of Ministers? So we tell ourselves what we say every year. For those 970 or almost 1,000 employees, we paid a new 24 million. Where did they find that money at the time of the temporary funding? They say the biggest reason for the large employment of new employees in BiH institutions is rules that are not subject to any control. I really saw 79 recently adopted a regulation on an institution called the Anti-Corruption Agency, that is, that procedure lasted one eight months. Never did the Council of Ministers tell Božiji's people to reduce the number of employees because that's why we won't accept it. No, it's coming back between the institutions, the agency and the Council of Ministers. So ineffectiveness is one that can't be compared to anything. Payment of benefits for non-engaged assets – the loans we received, which we were granted. We paid 3.6 million because we raised loans that we don't need, because we haven't used them in years. So, litigation is more than 2.5 million. The audit said everything she had. And I don't think she should have added anything, any new recommendations. All the recommendations were already known last year, although then... the reserve report. So the situation will change the moment Parliament's relationship with these reports changes. It will be interesting to see how audit reports will be discussed this year, regardless of how the Finance and Budget Commission has completed its work, all this must be confirmed by Parliament. It is up to us, our seriousness and responsibility that depends on whether we are going to deal with it in a professional way and stop this kind of chaos in BiH institutions.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12435	Thank you. Mr. Zijad Jagodić applied for the replica. Here, I've been informed that the discussion has been cut to five minutes, so take care.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12436	I'll take two minutes tops. I want to replicate, by this point of the agenda, to my imported colleague, Majkić. Sometimes when I wasn't in politics watching TV and Mrs. Majkić thought she was all-powerful, that she could do anything. But now I can see he can't. However, in the past time as Mrs. Dušanka is here, I'm really surprised, you are in all the commissions, here's the Finance and the Budget, I don't know everything, in security, security, inspection, in all the bodies, please have you ever warned them and told those in charge of this kind of business, to take appropriate measures in accordance with the law and applicable regulations? I'm really looking, here we all get these reports, on page 7, 8 and 9, I'm not going to repeat them, so let me put it short, everything is exactly what's right, what's wrong. As far as these recommendations are concerned, they're not implemented. I marked them exactly, and I didn't think you'd happen to miss, exactly 36 of them weren't filled. I really wonder if they have, where these institutions are, our newly elected minister, Mrs. Majkić You are in a new, ruling structure, run these things. Here, we'll give support now, but let's go once with these reports, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12437	MP Mladen Ivnković Lijanović applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12438	Thank you. 80 Here, I thank the esteemed Mrs. Majkić, has helped me quite a bit in the discussion and discussion. I'd only give an example. BiH has 3,540 vehicles, of which M11 passenger vehicles, so B category 2.111 drives. The audit said it recommended the Council of Ministers to urgently adopt uniform rules and procedures for the use of official vehicles at the level of BiH institutions, and to take concrete measures to streamline, and transparent and dedicated use of public funds. This is all of us, I'm a member of the Finance Committee, we wrote it there, so one detail that it is. Who's the Council of Ministers? I have said today, the president has signed for everything, and he has been appointed by the party that is from this Parliament. So it's a responsible person. Who in Parliament is the responsible person? Gentlemen, you're the most responsible colleague, then we are. It is known exactly who is responsible and who, and most of the things, that is, almost all of the things apply to the Council of Ministers, namely Mr. Chairman, who is the most responsible and the party that has run him. So gentlemen, that's where the responsibility begins, and that's where we need to start taking responsibility and go in that direction to move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12439	The word is from Ambassador Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12440	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, our relationship with this issue is visible and through the fact that we're discussing this topic somewhere in the further hours, the further day, quite already with a growing interest in anything that would be serious, but this is the easiest assessment of our relationship in general when it comes to the review report on the implementation of the BiH Budget Report for the past year. The very fact that this report should not be read, after the first, the second page seems to me that only seven recommendations from the previous year, the previous report was realised, that 17 started, we don't know how far it started but it was started, so I'm so very skeptical of what was done about it, and 36 recommendations didn't even start, it's about itself. Now, if I didn't, I could talk about each of these positions, the items, the waste, the lack of standards, standards, etc., but I repeat that, I've been here, for 5-6 years in this Parliament, and every time I discuss this, it seems to me that one of these stories is essentially repeated. We apologize here, as we criticize all this, and before the session is over we forget about what we talked about and we all keep acting like nothing happened. That's why I'm going to suggest an oral conclusion like this, maybe a little late, but. The point of discussion on this very serious subject is raised in this way and now. For me, this subject should also be ensured by the presence of the Chief Auditor, with respect to the Office for Auditing which is represented here, meaning also the Deputy Chief Auditor and Auditors who participated in the creation of this Report, but also the full composition, means not the Chairman of the Council of Ministers, but the full composition of the Council of Ministers. And this is a topic for which a special session should be organised. This is not a topic that we, we will, we will have recommendations and conclusions of countless already made, we are becoming inflation, with an apology, so I understand the Audit Office that this year is constantly repeating recommendations that have already repeated I don't even know how long. We are based on these recommendations, supporting the Office of Audit, supporting their recommendations, supporting them, and then we are making 81 more conclusions which as we commit all institutions to honor what the Audit Office has recommended to all of us. And so it all ends, ends the circle, and we wait for the next year, the next audit office reports, and again more or less similar discussions. So less like a debate. For that reason, here's an apology, so I think it's a little late, and this is my suggestion, because maybe I didn't expect it to come to the agenda at this time, but I expected to discuss this at noon today. But I couldn't predict that at 7:00 we'd be discussing this issue. So I suggest we postpone the debate on this agenda point first, here even though it's started, to postpone it if possible. Here, if it's possible for Dom to make a statement about it. I suggest, if it's possible for this agenda point to come forward again, we schedule a special session that doesn't require any special terms. So it could be next week, Monday, Tuesday, to ensure for that session the presence of all those I mentioned and that we really see here in direct communication. Is it possible, here are just a few examples, if it's possible that it's impossible for so long to pass some sublegal act that will define the standards of who in this country has the right to a state car. Is it possible? Is it possible that it took so long that we can't say what is the highest class anyone in this country can have at the expense of the budget? Is it possible that we can't pass the same act that will reduce countless privileges, to standardise how much the state can pay a square meter of business space? Because I don't think I'm going back on that subject, we talked about it, I'm just reminding you a little, because we've talked about this one-off amount of leases, about the one-offs for mobile and fixed telephony, about the one-on-one amounts for the maintenance of the train, about the one-on-one and now that, I might be able to row now, but I repeat myself. I'm tired of repeating. So if we want to be serious about ourselves and others, here's what I'm proposing, but not to repeat it, and to really cut this state once, to show that we don't tell these stories demagogue from some daily political needs, but that we're really truly determined to put order into the reach of public funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12441	I thank Mr. Lozančić and suggest that part of these conclusions relating to the very treatment of this issue be given to us by the moment of voting and delivered in writing, so that the House may eventually be able to declare itself. MP Mladen Ivanković Lijanović applied for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12442	The replica refers to the fact that we don't do anything about it, we always do it again. It's not personal that I'm not doing anything, I'm going to work, I'm going to insist, I just pointed out exactly where the responsibility is and who needs to be responsible and exactly who needs to do it. The Committee on Finance and Budgets, Mr. Lozančić may not have been with us last time, we are just in the summary report will be precisely this proposal and the proposal is for the Council of Ministers to come to the session of Parliament and to discuss this very matter. Here, just one more sentence. So when we were at that session, when we said we had 2,111 knots, this gentleman from USAID who was in Sweden said Sweden has only 50 vehicles and all this says is he's doing like... And we have 2,111. 82
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12443	Replica, MP Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12444	It would be a good idea if we knew what we really wanted and how we wanted to get out of it. The session Desiće take place, representatives of the Council of Ministers will also come, and we will apologize sweetly again and end up in the same session. Parliament has not shown that it knows what to do to get out of it. So we've been, for years, making conclusions that the Council of Ministers does not respect. Worse still, the Council of Ministers is not considering audit reports. Imagine that, an institution of the executive authority that doesn't consider audit reports. It's nowhere in the world. They've never seen a single audit report, they don't know what it says there. So how will they follow our recommendations when they don't know what the audit reports say? So we need to figure out what we want from it. What's the big deal she's been doing, doing the Finance and Budget Commission? It's not worth anything because, how are we going to, what are we going to do with those who are responsible? Will political responsibility be, not just positions, they are, now, the best at it, but will our political responsibility go to the point where everyone who doesn't do their part of the job is sanctioned? Well, we can't talk about it. And without doing anything, it doesn't make sense. So it's Parliament's fault, not the Council of Ministers. It's our fault. The moment we decide to change these things, and when we know how we're going to do it, it's going to change.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12445	The word has been given by Ambassador Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12446	Well, I was gonna say it's not hard to find a solution to this problem. It seems to me that we are on it, I answered the line by Mrs. Majkić, and it seems to me in the last session that we have been reviewing such reports, that we have said that the BiH institution is fully incomplete and incomplete. In order for someone to be called to account, you must have the basis of the law. Find the basis of the law so you can call a director of an agency or a minister. The minister can also plead criminally, not only politically, but also criminally, criminally, etc. So, what's missing? I'll be very brief, in this regard I've been thinking a little bit, missing the excessive law on the rights and duties of ministers and other senior civil servants, this can be said, much simpler and more quality, where their rights and responsibilities will be determined. So their rights and responsibilities will be determined in the control of budgets, budget spending. Well, that's basically to own, that Parliament has control over budget spending in the modern world. So, to be a real asset-expending controller. What's going on, now to repeat, I agree with everyone, that, please nice, that's not possible. Is it possible that I should call on Mladen Delić after that game, so these children up to eight years would not do what this Parliament, please, has been doing for years. This is where the constant discussion is turned, constantly talking about cars, about phones, the spending of funds in this way, and all of this can be made up into one, taxively listed, not only by law to solve, this Parliament is authorized to make decisions, therefore as general normative acts that can be addressed. So, exits exist. 83 The second thing, it's very circumstantial, confirmed, certified, whatever you want, that whatever you give to the Council of Ministers, don't expect any effects. What is the way of deciding, how much the Council of Ministers takes care of it and so on, that's another thing. But by law, we can resolve it with other normative acts, by a decision for which this Pralment is authorized. And we can limit everything, and we can determine for everyone the possibility of control. In our hands, I agree with Mrs. Majkić, it's all in our hands. So, all of these weaknesses can be attributed to our address, to this House's address. It's all about finding a solution and a normative legal solution, and then the control authorities, the law enforcement authorities, will be able to base someone on whether or not to drive someone away, to put him on the other side of the lock. If you go to jail for 15,000 marks, millions are used here in a very, very irrational way. So please, the agencies here, agency directors, executives do whatever they want, because they're not limited to anything at all. Where does it say that...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12447	I'll just remind you that time for a replica...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12448	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12449	Thank you. Replica, MP Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12450	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is more of an explanation to support all the colleagues who participated in the discussion, but here's what we are and how far we've been brought. You are witnesses, distinguished colleagues, that the chief auditor held several press conferences and spoke about everything. That the daily papers that were... interested, of course they can't wait to write it, and I support them, published everything. And this session now seems to me, that I'm only reading passages from some newspaper, who's embezzling, who's spending, which is why the budget has brought this opposition, whether it's broken this law or that law. We had people here with countless parliamentary questions – why so many institutions, why so many cars, phones, I don't know what. And I support what he was saying, all of what my colleague Majkić said, and Professor Kunić and Mr. Lijanović and Mr. Lozančić and everyone who spoke on this subject, this is the impotence of the Parlaament. And what I was saying earlier...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12451	I have to ask, who's the replica, if you support them all?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12452	Replica to us, replica to us all. Are we going to be able to bring in, fill in this order that I just said before, and then discuss with these people, not spend ourselves with each other when there's no one left? While we were choosing the Council of Ministers, everyone was present. As we discuss the audit reports, you know when we need to set up an auditor, those who don't need to come, when we need reports, there's no one. And what do I say now? You're right. The second row isn't, the third row is, the fourth is, the sixth is not there. What are we wasting our time with this, Mr. Chairman? And 84 of this is a good proposal for Mr. Lozančić to postpone the debate, because we can't go through with this. Nothing of this, we're just bringing ourselves, so that we can take responsibility for ourselves, neither blame nor debt on our backs, and all of this has been published before. Well, you saw one of the main auditors' conferences, and he warned everyone about what he did, what institutions. The daily paper, so take it, you took it as naturally as I did, and you looked at it, so I just want to remind you today, so let's not bring ourselves into the world that we're responsible for something when we're not. And to delay the debate, or continue to be, but to fill all these lines. All the lines to be, those who need to be there, so let's say people do, start getting involved in your business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12453	For the discussion, that is, we have a replica after all. Ambassador, Darko Babalj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12454	Here, I'll be brief. So, with respect, if we listened carefully to Mr. Kunić, everything was clear to us and previous to this discussion, the replica of Mr. Jovičić. So this is not Parliament's impotence, if we have heard and understood everything well, but this is not Parliament's will.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12455	MP Drgan Vrankić applied for the discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12456	Thank you very much. I've listened to all of these, is it, the debates that were and I'm really sorry that this is like this, what would be said in small, large hours, if we were discussing such an important topic. I have no intention, given that I was the minister of this call, to now defend this report that is here, is it delivered, especially from this aspect that we have a negative audit report. I would say this in one sentence – what a picture, such an opportunity. When I looked at the first report, so when I saw that negative opinions were given because we didn't adopt a basic document in a country called the Budget for the whole year, then why not expect a negative opinion. And you gave it well. We are unable to adopt the basic document, let alone implement and adopt the documents, and I agree with my colleague Kunić, that the matter is resolved only through the act. There's no mercy and no mercy. You have the law, you act on it, or it breaks or it doesn't break the law. So, when we are unable to adopt basic documents, and we have the audit that she took, as well as many institutions with us, either went outside or came to international organisations, so we helped us, so we transferred, means standards of the international community or the greatest experiences of the countries they have, and of course put on the matrix and now we want to copy it into us. Of course not. Of course they have hundreds of objections, because we are still down somewhere near the knees of what we should achieve in BiH. And in such a way, surely there will be a lot of objections. And what I would separate here from the part that stands, which is the crime and the integrity of the system. Now, if I knew there was a crime in this document anywhere, believe me, just like you, to report it. But it doesn't mean if someone was acting, if I don't know her, there was a car parked there that did a crime. Doesn't mean he couldn't save any more, he probably did, but I'm going to tell you a lot of examples, right this year, that it's been too much savings and that they couldn't have certain functions 85 behave in this country. Yeah, someone mentioned vehicles. I know these countries behave differently. They don't have vehicles. But they have an agency service and they're running an annual tender and they're showing it as a cost to do their transport service. And of course they don't have more than 30 cars. They're being driven by someone else. Just like we have a delivery. We have waiters on the budget. And somewhere in other countries, agencies are working, getting hit the way it's done. Here I'm just saying as one vivid example, that every criticism can't be so easily referred. On the other hand, as a minister, I had an objection, I don't know, and let it be written and listened, although a few years ago I came to the sea with my car, and a colleague from one agency with a state car. We're having coffee, I'm saying a colleague isn't fair. I get the enemy. I friendly him, not fair at sea you are, official car, why do you do it, I'm with my vehicle. Look, and we're in one phase that, here's when you try to do something, if it's not put through institutions, through laws, then of course you get an enemy because you see it with your own eyes. And I'm telling you now that several times at the Council of Ministers I've proposed a whole set of these decisions, here's a colleague from the Ministry, here's an auditor, which the Council of Ministers has not adopted. Why? Because they looked, the agency guys came in, so somebody, from the ministers, don't adopt this, you know, it's gonna give us a little bit of a scratch. And then in order not to be me now, I'm like the Council of Ministers where I'm sitting. On the other hand, I was here as a witness, and even a promoter, because one time it went through the Ministry of Finance, the Public Procurement Act, to fix it as the biggest source, or something that performs obstruction or brake of BiH's development or opens up the possibility of corruption and crime, we've had it here five times, every time it's been returned, no amendments are adopted, and here it's mentioned as something that, whether, it's very problematic, which should be built up, improved and so on. So I'm just saying this from one aspect that this is one picture and an opportunity and that we have to act very differently on this. The state has plenty of room to save, but this is not the reason to destroy state functions through the potential of their work that they must behave. We can't have 70 state agencies and not have a car. We can't go on official trips. Believe me, as a minister, I've been in a foreign country hundreds of times with one or two of me. See when the foreign delegation comes here, if there are 5-10 or 15. And not to say there are planes that bring people, and that's what I experienced in BiH when I was... when they came from all the planes and not with two cars. Here's mine, I'll finish with that, that remark review, friendly as a colleague. You have little respect for the reasons and attitudes of the competent institutions. I now have objections here, and I have seen that the Ministry of Finance has been addressing the revision with reasons that some things are not standing. I don't think you should go too hard in that part either... and you also don't have to say something that's adopted or repaired if it's not fixed. And in that context, I think this is a job and a task of all of us and this Parliament and the Council of Ministers and audits. And I propose one thematic session and it's a good suggestion to sit without this cramp and some sort of tendency to shift blame to someone else, to see a little bit of how to raise this transparency and stay in function rationality, not to end up obstructing the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12457	I thank Mr. Vrankić. The word has an MP, Boško Tomić, and this concludes the list of applicants. 86
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12458	Here, I'll try to be brief because I took the opportunity to discuss this in detail on the Finance and Budget Committee. And one of the main topics of all our meetings and discussions is exactly the audit reports where in 90% of the cases we were unanimous on which members present today can also confirm. I think all these proposals fit into what we are at the last session of the Budget and Finance Commission, considering a summary report in which we have proposed certain conclusions, that I think we will be able to discuss these problems within that point. And I don't consider myself powerless at all, nor do I feel like I'm wasting my time here. Some things have improved, the rest is, the seven decisions have been made, the 17 decisions are in the resolution phase, the 36 decisions have not come to their realization. But I repeat it for who knows which time, there are things that can end in half an hour in the morning. The use of cars, the right to representation, the costs, the rulebook defines and things are simply solved. But it just needs a little more goodwill. But speaking of these costs, I'll take my word for it very briefly. From the cost of accommodation, as Niko spoke of, the honourable MP Niko Lozančić, from the cost of accommodation, let us finally define once how much the price of squares can be, or how many squares per employee. Let's see what kind of car, to what level, who can. It is unacceptable at some meetings where parliamentarians come, gather on buses, agency directors come with drivers, cars and so on. I don't mind going on the bus, either, but I don't think it's, it's not appropriate, it's not okay. So there's room for spending, if we're already taking the bus, we could all pack up on buses and not like this. But the particular problem is, so it's a question of representation, of vehicles, of 9 million-dollar phones. We only hit these cell phones. Fixed phones cost us 5-6 million. A lot more than cell phones. The question is whether it's all in the service and for the needs of the state and society. But it's special, let's say contract and other services 44 million. And it is not a problem that there are 44 million but is a problem which is – says the engagement of external associates to carry out similar tasks that are in the systematization. And it happens that people who are deployed in these places get those benefits for an act contract. Now these are things that we need to solve faster and more effectively. And I think that, I think Mr. Lozančić will agree, too, that in the context of considering the summary report of this conclusion proposed by the Commission, I think that we will then have the opportunity to discuss in a way more detail about all these details and, in any case, there should be a presence and chair of the Council of Ministers and other ministers. In that direction, we might do well to end the debate in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12459	Thank you. Dear colleague Zvonko Jurišić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12460	I thank the chairman. Here, I answered the replica although I had the need to discuss after these discussions when it comes to the report of the BiH Institutions' Audit Office. I think when this annual report is adopted, it would mean the sum of all institutions, so we should discuss it 87 in a different way. This looks like what my colleague Jovičić was saying, that we're talking to each other... some way, that we're complaining that there are some problems, that we either can't or won't solve them, that we're powerless, or that we're not working, or that those who need to spend time laughing at all of what we're doing and doing. Parliament this, so this House adopted one conclusion which I proposed about maybe a year ago, namely that we have a thematic session on the subject of audit reports and that here, means this Parliament or at least the Commission on Finance and Budget, means to call together with the people of the Audit Office, who prepared this audit report, and with all those, agencies and institutions, and ministries, and to discuss it together. Because you can't justify, or perhaps you should, I won't say from these reports that someone has committed any crime. I'm not gonna say that, probably not. But if we say that over 6 million marks have been spent on contracts to work for temporary and occasional jobs, what my colleague Boško said means, the same employee who works in one institution has an additional contract of action. Well, maybe these people can explain to us that that's exactly what we need. And to keep it clean once, that is, those people who, whether or not they're good for themselves, they're bringing in some regulations about systematicization, and someone else is adopting them who isn't getting into it. It's funny to say now that the Council of Ministers has not looked, nor are they interested in this audit report. They're not interested in it because they don't have any sanctions on this matter. Therefore, responsibility is all in this House. This Parliament can make if it will, and if I say the proposal is here for most colleagues to hold a thematic session, to call, because there is no one here, we are discussing something here and there are no people who would possibly give us answers, clear answers. You have a systemized I don't know, 25 jobs and you've got five people on the deal. What are they doing to you? What did you do? Did you deserve those salaries, where you used those vehicles, and do you need five vehicles? So we need people to explain, maybe they need six, we're not going to talk about 2,111 or 211 of these and those vehicles. So we need to invite people to give us clear answers. It seems to me that the practice in the Federal Parliament, those who were, means that there is a Parliamentary Committee and there is an Office for Audit and there is an institution and they sit for two hours and they are considering a financial report, i.e. the possibility of repairing or possibly repeating the same mistakes. And of course, if there's any crime, there's the D.A.'s office who can consider all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12461	Thank you. Honorable representative Emir Kabil, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12462	Your Honor. Here, in these tiny hours through replica form, I would say a few sentences regarding all these activities and the Commission's budget and finance and the activities of the Audit Office. I wouldn't agree with the fact that no movement was made when it comes to the Office of Audit. On the contrary, I think that big shifts have been made, that their reports are very detailed, very high-quality and can be the basis for, if you will, criminal processes if there is a will to do so. Furthermore, at the last meeting of the Commission on Budgets and Finance, we also discussed two impact audits of 88 which clearly showed how much and what happened when it came to the BiH state's rolling stock, when it came to grenades, which clearly showed what all anomalies were going on. Let's say we're speculating here with a number of 3,560 vehicles. I claim responsibly that 40% of these vehicles are not in any function. It's vehicles that don't even have charts, these are vehicles that have traveled over 300-400 miles and are driven on some fictitious paper without any regulations that clearly state which vehicle can function. The people in the audit had such problems that they had not received any relevant report or service, for a chaotic situation when it comes to the purchase of spare parts. So my opinion is that the revision has made a terrible move when it comes to the Parliamentary Assembly and the problem is here. The problem is in this Parliamentary Assembly. We MPs are unable, we are not able to pass these problems on to those who are most responsible for all of this, and that must be recognised by the Council of Ministers. Therefore, the only real solution is to organise a high-quality thematic session which, several MPs have already said, will analyse all these things in detail, with representatives of the Office for Audit and with these institutions that have received a negative report. A negative report in serious countries means an alarming state for Parliament. We absolutely don't get excited at all, and I think, whatever, let's say maybe these little hours are also guilty of it, we're showing some kind of defetism about it. I think that the previous Parliament's meetings have, however, put the revision in the relevant place. More and more journalists and ordinary people question why the obligations, i.e. the revision instructions, are not respected. Therefore, I would not be so pessimistic, I simply hope that we as one of the conclusions at our last session of the Budget and Finance Commission, which was analysed by the Joint Auditing Report, will respect and that this Parliament will organise this one thematic conference, where we will insist that all these mentioned actors be present at this thematic conference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12463	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12464	I really must say that I didn't count on another call, but to tell you the truth, a little debate and discussion by Mr. Vrankić has given me a bit of a boost to answer it one more time. Since Mr. Vrankić was also a minister and was more familiar with the full procedure, but what he said was, in a way, from recommendations that were not realised, that if he knew someone had committed a certain offence to him himself. I mean, definitely, reading these reports, you can tell exactly who's where he's wrong. You can see exactly that, here through the report, we're going to get right at 2,000, up to 5,000, up to 50,000 exactly. The Code of Criminal Procedure says up to 5,000 crimes, over 5,000 crimes, whether it is 5,000 – 50,000. However, our House in my opinion, I am not a lawyer, but I believe that it should reach a certain conclusion, a decision, I don't know, for every negative report or report by the Office of Audit for that institution that has been found to have exceeded the limits, that it has not complied with the recommendations that are precisely quantified with a certain amount, sir dear, you will be removed within 30 days when your shift is confirmed, and you are a responsible person. The party that set him up will choose another and only then will he take 89 to account for what his report will be, will he be in line with the audit report and conclusions in those four categories. I don't know, if he's in the first paragraph, the first most qualitative report without those remarks, I don't even know how they treat them anymore, but definitely everything that's considered to be a normal violation and criminal overrun, the responsible person in the legal face has to answer, and that's the simplest and the easiest way to say what has to be removed. I believe that if we do this we have answered the task and that in my opinion is something that is true and stated here and I think most of us are clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12465	Thank you. I am concluding the debate at point 14. I'm opening up, moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Annual report on authorisations issued for the external trade of weapons, military equipment, dual and special purpose products for 2011 – material of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH The Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH, in accordance with Article 5. The law on the control of external trade in goods and services of strategic importance for BiH security, the Annual Report was submitted in 05.10.2012. The Joint Defence and Security Committee of BiH delivered its opinion on 01.11.212., proposing to the House to repeat its conclusion at the 13th session of the House of Representatives, requiring the BiH Ministry of Foreign Troika and Economic Relations to submit a proposal to the parliamentary procedure to amend the Act on the Control of Foreign Trade Transport of goods and services of strategic importance for the security of BiH, Article 22(1), which would reintroduce the obligation to report to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly on issued and implemented permits every six months. I'm opening a debate on the Annual Report. Here you go. Dear Representative Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12467	A sentence of one. So it's all clear from this, but what's connected to the conclusion of sub b. Thus, in addition to persistent insistence, the ministry does not deliver an amendment to the law which requires that twice a year the Parliamentary Assembly is reported on issued and implemented permits. So this is a repeat conclusion. They say a new law is under way. Here, let's wait a little longer, but I'm asking this conclusion to be adopted in order to force them to finally fulfil their obligation.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12468	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. 90 We're going to the 16th point, Ad. 16. Declaration on the initiative of MPs Božo Ljubić from the 33rd session of the House of Representatives, held on 06.09.2012 The initiative is addressed at the 33rd session of the House. The Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs delivered its opinion on the initiative on 06.11.2012. The commission supported the initiative. I've opened the debate before, and here's the application I'd like to personally explain this initiative. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. As is known, therefore, this initiative was presented at the House, supported by the committee responsible, but here before the decision I would also like to remind you once again of the very content of the initiative, but also certain, so to speak, recommendations and warnings that have come to me in the meantime. So this is about a proposal from the Council of Ministers to adopt a Decision on the seasonal ban on imports of certain agricultural products. So, you don't say, you don't treat any permanent ban. The aim of this initiative is to make a decision by the Council of Ministers on the seasonal ban on imports of agricultural products produced by our producers in sufficient quantities for the domestic market, so that they can sell their goods and thus reduce imports of these goods. In this way, they would provide business security to domestic producers, increase employment, and cut import costs and improve the country's general balance of payments. In fact, statistics show that during certain seasons, BiH can fully meet the needs of a number of agricultural products. At the same time, large quantities of the same products are imported in these periods, which is why domestic goods cannot be found by customers. According to the BiH Statistics Agency in 2012 import coverage in the agricultural and industrial sectors is all 25% and this sector participates in the country's total deficit with 29.3%. So nearly 30% of the agricultural sector participates in the country's payment deficit. In particular, imports of the most significant 11 agricultural products in BiH in 2011 amounted to 88,519,000 KM and BiH's foreign exchange deficit is 52 million in the same year. I'm, I'm just going to say, here's three items, three products actually that we have in sufficient quantities, but we're achieving an enormous deficit. On tomatoes 12 million marks a year, watermelons and melons 14 million marks, wine grapes 7 million marks. He's in a similar position and onion, and so on. Our governments give money incentives to farmers, and on the other hand, the domestic market is choked by allowing imports and those products that there are enough and during the period when there are most. That makes multiple damage to the producers and to the balance of payments of the state, and not to say that we often get from imports of products that have matured artificially, red tomatoes, and then our producers that produce them in a natural way cannot sell them. We all know that BiH has a major deficit in the external trade balance and that it is increasing. The agreement BiH has on the free trade of CEFTA, which allows, I quote – given the particular sensitivity of the agricultural market if imports of products originating in one side cause market disturbances or domestic regulatory mechanisms of the other side, both sides will immediately enter consultations to find an appropriate solution. In the event of such a solution, the relevant 91 measures considered necessary, Article 23, may be taken by the party concerned. - Yes, sir. Likewise, when one party has serious problems with the balance of payments, and ours are more than serious, it is thought of the balance of payments of this country, or, quote, it is directly threatened by the relative side that restrictive import measures can be adopted on the ergo omnes basis with VT provisions. Such measures will, in particular, be limited duration, Article 25. I therefore believe that there is an economic and financial need for a decision to prohibit temporary imports of certain agricultural products, and international contracts allow that. However, I am also, feeling the need to introduce you to certain messages that have come to me during the duration of this initiative. So, at the request of the EU Office here in BiH, I had one conversation with Mr. Renco Davidi to warn me, or that is to warn us that by adopting these measures, we would violate the basic features of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement and CEFTA. I also received a copy of the letter signed by Mr Pjer Mirel and which came to the address of our Directorate for European Integration, where we also have similar warnings. In addition, to put it this way, one warning that this could harm our negotiations in joining the VTO. The whole argument is that these measures, I say, would violate our credibility in these processes and associations. However, I also explained to our partners from the EU and quoted actually articles. So I will now quote a full Article 25 of the CEFTA Agreement, which has the title difficulty with the balance of payments, and says – When one of the parties has serious difficulties with the balance of payments or is directly threatened by the relevant party, it can adopt restrictive import measures on ergo omnes based in accordance with the VTO provisions. Such measures will in particular be limited duration and will not go beyond what is necessary to improve the balance of payments. The measures will gradually be mitigated as payment balance conditions improve, and will be abolished when the conditions no longer justify their maintenance. The party will immediately inform the other parties of their introduction, and whenever possible on the timetable for their removal. And to further quote Article 67 of the Interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which reads as follows: Item (1) – The Parties will seek wherever possible to avoid imposing restrictive measures, including measures relating to imports for the sake of the balance of payments. The party that adopts such measures will forward such measures to the other party, as soon as possible, the timetable for their abolition. However, paragraph (2) which has defined me not to violate the Interim Stabilisation and Association Agreement reads: – If one or more Member States or BiH face serious difficulties with regard to the balance of payments or the threat of such difficulties, the Community or BiH may, depending on the situation in accordance with the terms of the VTO Agreement, adopt restrictive measures, including measures relating to imports which will have a limited duration and cannot exceed what is strictly necessary to correct the balance of payments. The community or BiH, depending on the situation, will immediately inform the other side. So, I'm here on one, here I would say, a balanced way to get to know each other, and, finally, what I'm saying is that, by adopting this initiative today, it doesn't produce any action. So, in this case, this initiative would be directed towards the Council of Ministers, the Council of Ministers would then analyse all aspects, including those that justify these measures, as well as those which, they say contrary, and here are some warnings we had here, and only then, together with entity governments, together with cantonal governments, decide whether to introduce them at all whether to what extent, to which season, for which product, etc. Because we also need to be honest, so here we are, and according to our environment, of these items that are listed here, some of us 92 don't have enough simple enough, some of us will have to import. And if we were to impose a total, therefore the distillation of imports of these products could lead to disturbances on the domestic market and the purchase of these goods. So that's the same argument that needs to be taken very seriously, but of course it will take care of, if we adopt this initiative, the Council of Ministers, entity governments and those who take care of it, so on the balance of the market. I simply believe that by adopting this initiative today in Parliament does not violate anything, but here is a way of encouraging the Council of Ministers and entity governments, cantonal governments, all those who take care of agriculture, who give incentives and so on, to sort of deal with it, because, again, our agriculture suffers because of this, our balance of payments are very much suffering and, ha, I would say that our first interest is to protect the interests of this country and our people, and since we are a largely agricultural country, then we certainly deserve that protection, or... for that. Thank you very much. ... It's a debate. [[microphone is not enabled]] Replica, the esteemed representative of Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12470	The Honorable Chairman. From the moment I applied for the replica, you were part of the things I wanted to say explained, as regards the possibility of a possible breach of the CEFTA Agreement and the VTO Rules. Let me tell you right now, as I personally and the entire SDP Club, we support initiatives going this way, just for the sake of, not only the propriety of the promoter, but this House, which should vote for this motion tomorrow, or tonight. Once again, we draw attention to be careful with these things. You are right when you say that our adoption of this initiative does not practically produce any action, but it will produce it if the Council of Ministers acts on this initiative, i.e. it is questionable whether it will produce at all, we have different opinions of people in BiH and people from the European Commission. However, it would not be bad if you allow a small intervention on your initiative, so that it is said to ask the Council of Ministers to consider the possibility of making a decision. And in that case, let us fence a little bit of you as a promoter and us as a Parliament, that it is not imperative, given that intensive communication between the Ministry of Foreign Trade and economic relations with the people of Brussels is precisely about these things. So, I absolutely don't doubt that this is a good initiative, that it should be adopted, but here is a suggestion that, above all, we will protect you and Parliament from the false interpretation of our initiative, which is to the best possible extent, if Brussels believes this is not something we have a right to, and then the Council of Ministers, of course, with consultations, to take such measures. So, only if you allow the initiative to be able to consider making a decision on the seasonal ban on vegetables.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12471	I thank the distinguished representative Saša Magazinović. And here, I can immediately say that I am willing to accept such a formulation. In that case, if we decide to make a proposal, it would be that this initiative bears the title – a proposal to the Council of Ministers to consider 93 the possibility of making a decision on a seasonal ban on imports of certain agricultural products. Is that what you thought? Thank you very much. Replica, a respected representative of Azra Hadžiahmetović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12472	Thank you. I would only suggest to the promoter that perhaps before making the final formulation of the initiative, which is in line with those initiatives that sound very good, which are drinkable, acceptable, etc., I do not know who would not protect domestic production, etc., but to first make an insight into the Customs Tariff Act that this Parliamentary Assembly recently adopted, where among other things, I will remind you, has authorised the Council of Ministers to intervene in terms of changing customs burdens, and in cases of team and team. Secondly, to take into account the CEFTA obligations and the VTO provisions which, among other things, state that in cases of default in the balance of payments, the precisely prescribed procedure demonstrates this when, among other things, the use of such measures as these are authorised. So, if we don't go into any kind of delusion, I suggest that you withdraw this initiative, that, before you make any final wording that wouldn't cause bullets like the European Commission's strong reaction to this announcement itself, I suggest that you first make an insight into all these provisions and that, in accordance with that, I didn't mention here the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, our obligations resulting from this Agreement, but here, to make an insight into all this, and then get some formulation that could provide a passage without conflict with some solutions that we already have and the obligations that we have to fulfil.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12473	Thank you. Dear representative Milica Marković, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12474	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've answered the line since I won't be discussing it for long, and why I want to address it is just one suggestion. So, first of all, the initiative as an initiative and its contents that it carries with it, I apriorius support these meanings essential initiatives, especially for local reasons, because I come from Semberia, which is an extremely agricultural area and I know that there most of the population is engaged in agriculture and is alive interested in this kind of protection of their work and effect that they have, so first of all for these reasons. But, respecting the reasons that you have presented, as a proposing, and what Col. Magazinović said that we must be very careful in formulating these things, I would just like to remind this Parliament and colleagues who were in the last meeting will remember, so in July 2008, when we ratified the CEFTA Agreement, at the same session after the ratification of the Agreement, this Parliament reached a conclusion which reads: – The Council of Ministers is in charge to adopt a plan of activities within 60 days to protect domestic production. Because even at that time, 94, when we ratified the Agreement, we had in mind that it would produce certain consequences for our domestic agricultural producers and we tasked the Council of Ministers to adopt such a plan of activity and, of course, deliver it for consideration to this Parliament. Neither did the Council of Ministers when they did this plan of activity, nor did we get it under consideration, and four years later, we are all witnessing the consequences of suffering, because we were in debt and we wanted to eventually accept this CEFTA Agreement. So, I suggest that either you rephrase or I write such a conclusion, so that we just renew this conclusion of Parliament and strengthen it and refer it to the Council of Ministers with a certain deadline, because certainly this initiative, which was proposed on 05/09/2012, means for this year's season it has already been overcome. What we can do is for the next year and leave a certain deadline for the Council of Ministers, and I think that this way we would avoid this, to say, the delicacy to say that it is banned, which seems pretty rigid or perhaps repressive when the representatives of the EU are listening to us to negotiate with. So, to avoid this formulation of the ban on seasonal imports of agricultural products, and I think that we will get the same result if we renew and strengthen this conclusion as Parliament and we shall task the Council of Ministers to do so, whether in the next 60 days or perhaps at the latest by 28 February of the following year, which already makes sense for us to get one plan of such activities for consideration. And I am convinced, apriori, that such a document will at least be able to mitigate these consequences and these problems that farmers today have in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12475	Thank you. Dear Representative Anto Domazet, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12476	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Obviously, this is about a measure of protection of domestic production. You have wider arsenal measures available, except for the ban on imports you have contingents, you have the introduction of additional customs duties, etc., seasonal customs duties and so on. I think it is necessary to give it to the Council of Ministers, so we support your initiative, but, in terms of what counterpart Magazinović has proposed, it should give the Council of Ministers a decision on how to implement such a measure in a technical sense. You've been stressing very strongly on the balance of payments. That argument doesn't stand at all. Payment balance disorders in BiH do not exist, and as counterpart Hadžiahmetović said, there are procedures to determine whether the country is in a position to feel the balance of payments disorders and participates in the IMF. He gives his opinion on whether the country is in prudential difficulties and whether it is a mature situation for the application of such measures. In our situation when we have a stand-by arrangement with the IMF we are under a special regime and certainly do not share, or we do not have that attribute of a country that has payment-supply difficulties, because it is exactly a stand-by arrangement and concluded that between the other and the pay-supply difficulties would be largely solved, i.e. in the right way. So, that argument will be taken into account in every assessment of your initiative and surely we can expect a crowd, a multitude of difficulties in the realization of this initiative. Thank you very much. 95
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12477	Thank you. Dear Representative Zijad Jagodić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12478	Okay, today seems to me kind of more with these initiatives and, first of all, I want to help and give my opinion on the protection of domestic production. What Mr. Chairman pointed out and wanted with this initiative, I truly believe that it is well-intentioned and certainly so, but it is obvious that in formulating this request, i.e. the initiative and the recommendation to implement it. In order to protect I think it would be good, I do, given that it concerns part of my branch and traffic, I recommend that these things definitely have to be made a real deal with the representatives of our customs office. They're experts, they're acquaintances, they're gonna... However, I would recommend that you already, I expected that you would immediately tell us to step in after the new year, because look at the fruit is Milica-Semberija, and at the vegetables of January. Because look what's going on with us, we start selling tomatoes, peppers in June when the highest price has dropped everywhere. Give it in January of the month, when it's the highest prices, because that's what we have to look at. I suggest, here's just a colleague to support, to protect Sember and Posavina, but since January of the month, not to wait for June and July. That is my opinion, and I recommend that we move in this direction as soon as possible to achieve the highest price per kilogram, whether the fruit, whether the vegetables. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12479	Thank you. Dear Representative Mladen Ivanković Lijanović, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12480	Thank you. I'm always in a replica for a maximum of 3 minutes, not a problem. He made it a little easier for me, thanks to the introduction, to be part of Article 25. CEFTA and a member of 67th and I am glad that HDZ 1990 has in some way evolved in politics against domestic production, and I hope that, as part of the parliamentary majority now and who have power in the Council of Ministers, this will be implemented. And this is clear that, and this is very well known, the People's Party proposed, by working for improvement, the Law on the Protection of Domestic Production when they were all against, but since then. I hope and expect consensus that this decision will be made in this form. And on the postponement of this decision, so the EU at monthly level is working on balances and making certain decisions. So, ban or extra burden, that's where I hesitate. So that's something, whether it's a ban or an extra burden to introduce. Therefore, the Council of Ministers should bring some guidelines by the end of this year so that producers know under what conditions they can place production in the following year. So, the Council of Ministers should bring this in by the end of the year, bring it down to entity levels. And about whether we're right about what we're doing, so my people aren't telling us enough, here's what the promoter said: import coverage is 25%. In the last 10 years, 2003. 96 billion and seven hundred, 2004 billion and seven hundred, 2005 billion and nine hundred, 2008 two and two hundred. 18.5 billion over the last 10 years, we've only had deficits, when it comes to agricultural products, customs tariffs from 1 to 24. And here I have before me, so interestingly, the deficit is no product, so here in the first nine months of this year, there's no product in the plus, all in the minus. In 2011, too, all minus. In 2010, it was all down as well. Isn't this enough evidence? So, I don't doubt at all, I don't know, this, if the Council of Ministers won't adopt us by the new year, hand over to the entity ministries to take measures, then nothing will we just get into a mess like that. We need to be firm, clear and determined, we have all the arguments, we have all the things, I just said whether a ban or an extra tax, a contingent, that can be discussed. And I'm saying, I expect this to be settled by consensus and headed for the right job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12481	Thank you. Dear Representative Dragan Vrankić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12482	Thank you very much. Here, a little help, given that my colleague Bojić was not in the Chamber of Customs and Foreign Trade, I would like to say that we have supported this proposal of yours, and I think that he is in principle good from one aspect, especially since he is going with the initiative to the Council of Ministers, and since the Council of Ministers does not see any obstacles to studying this matter and from all of these aspects, and what the Commissioner Azra was saying, it means what currently applies from the domain and the permission of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, I think that we can then, through one quality proposal, simply try a little bit to see if it is possible. It's certainly not simple, we've opted for a market approach, every action is causing a reaction, but I think the least we can do is try. If we're justified and prepared, then we can secure something, if we don't, then we'll be okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12483	I thank and close the debate on this agenda item. But here, I feel the need to, given that certain discussions have gone in the direction of both pro and pro, and against this initiative, to say a few more words. [[Common discussion]] Okay, we can consider it, since distinguished colleague Milica Marković has made a proposal that expands a little bit, so this initiative, so here's to the moment of the statement on the initiative we can consider the possibility of a formulation that might now be, that ad hoc talk, I'll write it down. Therefore, the proposal to the Council of Ministers to consider introducing measures to protect domestic agricultural 97 production including the possibility of making a decision on, and then this as the seasonal ban initiative reads. Is that covering about what you were gonna say?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12485	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12486	All right, I'm thanking you. So, we have concluded the debate and you will have the final proposal of this initiative before your statement, so you will have the opportunity to plead. We're going to the next item on the agenda, the 17th item on the agenda, that's Ad. 17. Appointment of a member of the BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications and the appointment of members of the Management Board of the Public Radio Television Service from the Serb and Croatian people (rank-list of BiH Regulatory Agency for Communications) Under the Law on Public TV Service of BiH, the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency provided a ranking of candidates for a member of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board from the Bosniak people on 18.11.2011. The Transport and Communications Committee delivered its opinion on the 01.12.2011 ranking. The commission accepted the candidate's rank. At the 15th session of the House, held on 08.12.2011, a conclusion was adopted on the postponement of a statement on the appointment of members of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board from the Bosniak people and it is up to the Committee for Transport and Communications to hold a meeting with the RAC and the RAC Council. On the 20th. The session, held on 02.02.2012, the House adopted a conclusion delaying the statement, a statement on the appointment of a member of the Management Board of the Public TV Service from the Bosniak people until the issue of members of the Management Board from the Serbian and Croatian people is resolved. On 04.10.2012, we received from the BiH Communications Regulatory Agency a ranking of candidates for members of the BiH Public TV Service Management Board from the Serbian and Croatian people. The Committee for Transport and Communications delivered its opinion on 17.10.2012. The commission unanimously accepted the lists and proposed to the House to appoint members who entered the shortlist. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative, Aleksandra Pandurević, debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12488	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, all this would have been fine and nothing would have been disputed if there hadn't been a question of the legitimacy of whoever was doing this process, which is the RAK savjet, whose mandate expired five years ago. I therefore propose that we here, given that we have adopted today or we hope to adopt the Communication Act, wait for it to be won, that a new RAC Council be chosen when we have waited so long and that we will then receive legitimate proposals from a legitimate body, because I am afraid that this is how it will really come into question and the legitimacy of the Board of Directors of BHRT. Thank you. 98
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12489	Thank you. Dear Representative Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12490	Dear Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, we always have a problem with this emphasising mandate, and more than anyone we choose here is in some way, they have something to do with the mandate, or they have an extension of the mandate. Since the difficult pain is over and this process that went through the Communications Regulatory Agency has ended, and since we need to finally solve this problem, I suggest we choose, or I suggest we decide today on the basis of this material that we have received, to choose three members of the Board of Directors of BHRT Service. I also propose to vote in a package for one member in the order of the Bosniak, Serbian and Croatian people and I will make a written proposal for a conclusion that I ask for this House to be declared.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12491	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We have here practically, from these two debates, two conclusions, in fact, could actually come out, so here I expect before I say that we will define ourselves about it. We're moving on to point 18, Ad. 18. Appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the Serb and Bosniak people – List of candidates of the Committee for the Election and Appointing of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH (rescheduled appointment at the 30th session of the House of Representatives, held on 21 June 2012) In accordance with Article 2 paragraph 5(2) and (6) of the BiH Election Law, the Committee for the Election and Appointing of Members of the Central Election Commission of BiH submitted the list of candidates for the appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of the Serb and Bosniak peoples in 12.06.2012. At the 30th House session, held on 21 June 2012, a conclusion was adopted after the debate, which reads: - The appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the Serb and Bosniak people in connection with an open competition from 10.04.2012 to the end of the current election process is delayed. As the conditions have been met this point is included in today's session agenda. There's no discussion about this point. We're going to the 19th point, 99 Ad. 19. Appointment of a member of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the Croatian people – List of candidates of the Committee for the Election and Appointing of Members of the Central Election Commission of BiH
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12494	I thank the Honorable President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Here, on the 18th and 19th points of the agenda, I propose that a joint statement, if there is no debate on these items of the agenda, be given these items of the agenda, because it is the appointment of members to one and the same institution, the same body, means the Central Election Commission. And by principle, here's how a colleague has already proposed for the previous item of the agenda, a statement from a unique list of candidates from all three constituent nations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12495	Thank you. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to agenda 20, Ad. 20. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH, material of the Joint Committee on Human Rights, children's rights, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics At the 31st session of the House, held on 05.07.2012, a conclusion was adopted – the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the National Minority Council returns to the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics, which is required to prepare a new proposal for a list with respect to the proposals presented. On 18 July 2012, the Joint Commission submitted a new Decision. At the 32nd session of the House, held on 19.07.2012, a conclusion was adopted, requiring the Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics to consider all the objections received, and to take a position on them and then propose a final list. The Joint Committee delivered the Decision on 06.11.2012. I remind you that at the 31st session of House of Representative Nermina Ćemalović, she suggested a conclusion that we did not make, so I ask the representative – does she give up on him?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12497	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12498	He's giving up. I'm opening a debate. Dear Representative Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12499	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here, so we don't open that tape again, I think the same target is the same distance, and after this list, we've got a bunch of papers of some people who aren't happy and whose attitudes are, and that I wouldn't explain it now, we have one proposal, or we can put this back again, or that one of the most controversial members around whom it's led me not to say "polemics," at least as far as we're concerned, replace it. So, here's what we're going to suggest is that this one member be replaced on the List and then voted for the List or put it all back, for who knows which time, back. Because we don't know what anymore, the objections are serious from the Alliance of National Minorities of the RS, from the National Assembly of the RS and the Association, here I can read to you now, we've repeated it several times. So we have these two choices, to replace one member on the List and vote for the List, if there is a willingness, or, if we look again at all these remarks that have come, to put it back again. I don't know what they'd do next in that whole story. Here, let the rest of you plead for it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12500	Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12501	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know about Mr. Kalabić's proposal, and I'm glad that this time without those earlier words and polemics, it's obviously been a pre-election campaign and I'm glad to see Mr. Kalabić that you're here with us. We will accept Mr. Kalabić's suggestion, since it is the Ukrajinac. He last time, the woman who was proposed, claimed to be an SDS candidate, and she was an independent candidate for the council. And another, also an independent candidate, for a councilman whom Mr. Kalabić, whom Mr. Džover advocates, also supported in our candidate's Prnjavor for the winner. So we don't care if the lady is concerned, we would, of course, prefer it because of gender equality to be a woman, but if we don't have another way to come to a solution we also accept this replacement as suggested by Mr. Kalabić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12502	Thank you. 101 I just didn't realize until the end and it would certainly help us to vote later, so we have, a colleague Kalabić made an alternative proposal to postpone the plea or replace a person. I don't know what you agreed to replace a person with. _________(?) Yeah, to switch. Okay, thanks. No more reports. I am closing the debate on this, no, the distinguished representative Nermina Ćemalović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12504	Chairman, allow me to welcome everyone present. This is a bit of a confusing situation now, for this reason I welcome what Mr. Kalabić says, but what makes Mrs. Pandurević's right to make such decisions on behalf of the Commission, the Joint Commission who has not met. This is nobody's property, and neither is Mrs. Pandurević, she's just the president of the Joint Commission. Therefore, if in this way, under quotes, you can trade names, then I return Mr. Mujić's candidacy, who is a master of social science, and for that reason I asked him to, to be sought. Therefore, this cannot be decided by Mrs Pandurević, this can only go back to the Joint Commission. And I welcome this decision and I'm sure Mr. Kalabić has a reason why it's a name, and I'm going to vote for the name of that new candidate, certainly there's a reason why that name appears. But in any case, this must return to the Joint Commission again if, because no one can change anyone's name, this Parliament alone can make a decision here.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12505	Thank you. Dear Representative Aleksandra Pandurević, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12506	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm afraid, Mrs. Ćamalović, that you didn't listen to what I was talking about. I made a clear statement here on behalf of the SDS, because even when I mentioned our candidate for the head of the Prnjavor municipality, he was not a candidate for the Human Rights Commission, he was a candidate for the SDS. So I spoke here on behalf of the Serbian Democratic Party, Mrs Ćemalović.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12507	Thank you. Have you heard from the debate?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12508	No microphone 102 turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12509	Dear representative Nermina Ćemalović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12510	Well, the lady said, obviously I didn't understand, I didn't know it was a candidate for the SDS, but I thought it was a candidate for the national minorities, the National Minority Council. Therefore, neither SDS candidate nor SDA nor SDP nor any party is mentioned here, but is mentioned in front of national minorities.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12511	Thank you. There are no more reports for discussion, no more for replication. All those who have made certain suggestions I would ask them to deliver them in the form of conclusions and then we will plead as Home whether we will return to the Committee again, so this matter, or we will plead, depending on what conclusion we will adopt. We move to, before the transition, so at point 21. I suggest that the House declares that the debate on points 21 to 25 of the agenda is united, as it is a matter of giving consent to ratifying the agreement. I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who's to have these points, as has been the custom so far, of uniting, of discussing them? Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 27 votes to one vote against, without abstentions, with both entity majority, we have adopted the conclusion that these points are being discussed in the package. Ad. 21. - 25. Grants of consent We've been given opinions from the committee responsible for foreign affairs. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. And that's how we absorbed the agenda. I suggest we approach the vote ten to nine in 15 minutes. [[PAUZA]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12515	An amendment that is an integral part of the Law, only by law.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12516	With 25 votes for, 9 abstentions, with enough entity majority, I find that we have passed the bill with amendments that are an integral part of that law. We move to the 8th item of the agenda – Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Communication Act (first reading). But we had...
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12517	Let's go read first to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12518	So we're voting on the bill in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 32 votes in favour, 6 votes against, with enough entity majority, we passed the Communication Act in the first reading. And now we are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Borislav Bojić. If you need it, we'll read the conclusion. We are voting, therefore, on the proposal for the conclusion of Representative Borislav Bojić. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 30 votes in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we find that the conclusion of MP Borislav Bojić was adopted. Now we vote, so on the Communication Act in the second reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now I find that, with 32 votes for, 6 against, with enough entity majority, we have passed the Amendment Law and the Supplements of the Communication Act in the second reading. Moving to point 9. – Proposal for a law on mine action (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 34 votes in favour, 1 vote against and 2 abstentions, with enough entity majority, we have passed the Law on Mine Action. 105 We move to point 10. – Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the administration of Bosnia and Herzegovina (first reading). We're voting on the bill's proposal in the first reading. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I find that, with 37 votes in favour, without votes against, without abstentions, enough entity majority votes, we passed a bill amending the Law on the Ministry and other bodies of the BiH administration in the first reading. We are going to vote on item 11. – Proposal for a law on Bosnia and Herzegovina's foundations (first reading). So we're voting on the bill in the first reading. Prepare to vote. Vote now. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The conclusion is, what's the conclusion? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12522	As far as I'm concerned, he can. 106
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12523	Let him rest for a while.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12524	Consensus means. Moving to point 12. – Report on BHRT's work and business for 2011. We are voting on the adoption of the Report, but before that, we are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of representative Dušanka Majkić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12525	I'm pulling.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12526	So the conclusion is withdrawn. We therefore vote on the adoption of the Report. Prepare to vote. Vote now. With 21 votes for, 12 against, a sufficient entity majority from the Federation, without an entity majority from the RS, therefore this report was not adopted in the first round of voting. Are we voting in the second round?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12527	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12528	A colleague.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12529	Later.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12530	It's an ex-consensual match. We move to the 13th item of the agenda – Report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' budget and international commitments for 2011. We are voting on the adoption of the Report with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget and the conclusion contained in it. If necessary, should we read the conclusion? _________(?) You don't have to. You don't need to read the conclusion. So we're voting on the report. 107 Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 32 votes in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention, with enough entity majority from both entities, we adopted the Report. Moving to point 14. – Report on the financial audit of the report on the implementation of the BiH institutions' 2011 Budget. We are voting on the adoption of the Report with the opinion of the Committee on Finance and Budget and the conclusions contained in it. Should we read the conclusions? _________(?) You don't have to.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12536	Given that the mandate of the RAK savjet expired in 2007, which calls into question the legitimacy of their proposal, the selection of new members of the BHRT Management Board will be carried out after the election of new members of the RAC Council. That's the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12537	So you heard the conclusion. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with six votes in favour, with 26 votes against and one abstention, there is therefore no overhalf majority, nor entity, this conclusion has been adopted. 109 We now move on to a statement on the proposal, whether this is the conclusion of a representative of Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović, who reads – To unite the vote on three members of the Board of Directors of BHRT, so from the three constituent nations. I will read, suggest that for BHRT Management Board members, the Esad Gotouša from the Bosniak people, Vladimir Marčeta from the Serbian people and Valentina Rupčić from the Croatian people are named. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 25 votes in favour, 9 votes against, 3 abstentions, with enough entity majority, that Mr. Esad Gotouša, Mr. Vladimir Marčeta and Ms. Valentina Rupčić were appointed members of the Board of Directors of BHRT. Moving to point 18. – The appointment of members of the Central Election Commission of BiH from the Serb, Bosniak and Croatian peoples, by having the conclusion here of Niko Lozančić, who proposes to unite, so to appoint members of the Central Election Commission from all three nations. So, who's in favour of supporting this conclusion by Mr. Niko Lozančić? Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 27 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we accept this conclusion that we vote in the package. I therefore propose that the following candidates be appointed for the members of the Central Election Commission, namely the Central Election Commission of BiH, in the order of the Serb, Bosniak and Croatian peoples: Mr Tihomir Vujičić, Mr Ahmet Šantić and Mr Stjepan Mikić. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] A five-minute break has been requested outside the SNSD Club. [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12540	... a proposal for the Central Election Commission to be named Mr Stjepan Mikić of the Croatian People's Order, Novak Božičković of the Serb People's Order and Dr Ahmet Šantić of the Bosniak People's Order.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12541	I apologize to me it's written here. 110
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12542	And I'm asking for a statement to be made.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12543	I've been written differently in this scenario, just a little bit, that the right is, so the right is a colleague, well I think it's nothing, nothing has happened, nothing has happened, really I have this signed proposal from my colleague, Niko Lozančić, the truth in my script has written differently. Therefore, I repeat, the vote is repeated for, in fact, we have not voted on the members. So, we vote for members, candidates for members of the Central Election Commission of BiH, and I suggest they be named: Stjepan Mikić of the Croatian people's order, Novak Božičković of the Serb people's order and Dr Ahmet Šantić of the Bosniak people. Prepare to vote. We're voting now. I find that, with 30 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 3 abstentions, with enough entity majority, that Mr. Stejepan Mikić, Mr. Novak Božičković and Dr. Ahmet Šantić were elected members of the Central Election Commission. Moving to point 20. – Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Council of National Minorities of BiH. We vote on adopting a decision if there are no conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12544	We have drag Kalabić's conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12545	Let's see where the conclusion is. Can you find a conclusion?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12546	Restored by Nermina.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12547	Give me a conclusion. Let me see. We have, therefore, two conclusions, a proposal from counterpart Kalabić: I propose that, instead of Marija Stefanjek, Andrija Svatok be included on the list. Did I read it right? _________(?) Yes, it is. So I know Cyrillic after all. And the proposal, MP Nermina Ćemalović's proposal: I suggest that instead of Nedžad Jusić, Mehmed Mujić be placed on, what is written here. Do you agree to vote on these conclusions in the package? 111 Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 27 votes in favour, 6 against and 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we adopted these conclusions in the package, Mr Kalabić's conclusions and Mrs Nermina Ćemalović. Now we vote, I think about adopting a decision, right?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12549	Yeah, now it's a decision.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-11-22-0.u12550	We vote, therefore, on the adoption of the decision as a whole. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I agree that, with 32 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 2 abstentions, with enough entity majority, we adopted a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the BiH Council of National Minorities. Now we move to a statement, whether to vote in the package on points 21 to 25, it's about ratifications to remind. Vote on this proposal. Vote now. Who's in? I find that, with 33 votes for, 2 against and 1 abstention, with enough entity majority, we have concluded that we will plead on these points from 21 to 25 in the package. We vote on granting consent to ratifying the agreement from points 21 to 25. Prepare to vote. Vote now. I find that, with 37 votes in favour, 23 votes from one entity, 14, without against, without abstentions, we have ratified decisions from 21 to 25. I thank you very much for this extended day. Thank you very much. Session completed at 9:20 p.m.
