ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10474	My fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, honored guests, I am opening the 29th session of the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina. At the meeting were invited our regular guests chaired and members of the presidency, chairman and members of the Council of Ministers of BiH, representatives of international organisations and embassies in BiH who regularly follow our work, media representatives. Also invited are representatives of the High Court and Prosecutor's Council, the BiH Court of Justice, the BiH Prosecutor's Office, the Personal Data Protection Agency and the Central Election Commission of BiH to discuss materials from their jurisdiction. I warmly welcome all present MPs and guests. The absence was justified by MPs Mirza Kušljugić and Zijad Jagodić, MP Milica Marković. According to service information, 33 MPs are present. I find the session has a quorum for work and decision-making. As for the amendments and additions to the agenda, I would like to inform you that item 17. A statement on MP Šemsudin Mehmedović's initiative from the 26th session of the House of Representatives, held on 19th. 4. In 2012, because the Joint Committee on Administrative Affairs submitted a request for the removal of this agenda. Due to lack of opinion, the House College extended the deadline for the delivery of opinions to 19. Six. In 2012. Point 3 has been recast in accordance with Rule 111(6) of the Rules of Procedure, since the competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs has not delivered the Report on the Proposal for a Customs Tariff Law and the House's Declaration on the setting of a new deadline for the submission of the report or the suspension of the legislative procedure on the Proposal for a Customs Tariff Law is now being made. Point 5, point 6, point 7 and point 8. Points 5.6.6.7 and 8 with reports from competent committees that are negative have been supplemented. I'm opening a debate on the proposed agenda. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I find that the 29th House session has the following 2 1. The adoption of the minutes from the 28th session of the House of Representatives; 2. Parliament Questions (a) Comments on answers received, (b) New parliamentary issues; 3. Declaration by the House on setting a new deadline for delivering the report or suspending the legislative procedure on the Customs Tariff Bill, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-12, of 11. 1. 2012; 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Payments and Refunds in BiH institutions, Proposer of the Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-1712, of 8. 5. 2012 (second reading); 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, with Opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, Rights of the Child, Youth, Immigration, Refugees, Asylum and Ethics; 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of BiH, MPs Mladen Bosić, Darko Babalj, Borislav Bojić, Aleksandra Pandurević and Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, with the opinion of the Transport and Communications Commission; 7. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Television Service of BiH, MPs Mladen Bosić, Darko Babalj, Borislav Bojić, Aleksandra Pandurević and Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, with the opinion of the Transport and Communications Commission; 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of political parties, MEPs Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović and Niko Lozančić, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission; 9. Report on the implementation of the law in charge of the Central Election Commission for 2011, submitted by the Central Election Commission of BiH, material No 01,02-50-19-57712, of 30. 4. 2012; 10. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in BiH Institutions, applicant of the BiH Ministry of Justice, material No 01,02-50-19-60012, of 7.5.2012; 11. Report on the implementation of measures to improve the conditions of business in BiH's agricultural production and food industry, submitted by the Council of Ministers of BiH, material number 013-28-60512, of 8. 5. 2012; 12. Report on the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, submitted by the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, material No 01,02-50-19-63312, of 16. 5. 2012; 13. Commission report to the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Šemsudin Mehmedović for the debate on the report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of conditions of residence in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for a period of 14. Nine. 2010 to 31. 12. In 2011, which reads "In the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, 3 refugees, asylum and ethics in conclusion number 2 to include the words of the KZ Banja Luka after the word of Zenici"; 14. Information on key security challenges in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2011 and Analysis of the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Strategy for the fight against organised crime and the Bosnia and Herzegovina Strategy for the Prevention and Combating of Terrorism, the BiH Ministry of Security material, No 01-04-2-3412, of 4. 1. In 2012, 15. Information on the state of crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2011, submitted by the Council of Ministers of BiH, material No 01,02-04-1-57912, dated 30. 4. 2012; 16. Analysis of the implementation of the State Strategy for War Crimes cases, High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, No 01-50-2-13-2612 of 16. 3. 2012, Court of BiH, No 01-50-19-125711 of 22. 3.2012, and the BiH Prosecutor's Office, No 01-50-19-125711 of 5. 4. In 2012 (on the occasion of Parliament's initiative, Aleksandra Pandurević, adopted at the 20th session of the House of Representatives, held 2. 2. 2012) – a delayed debate at the 28th session of the House of Representatives, held 24. 5. 2012; 17. A statement on the initiative of MP Nermine Ćemalović from the 26th session of the House of Representatives, held on 19th. 4. In 2012, which reads "The requirement to form a commission in the state parliament, which would, with the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Health of both entities and Brcko District, in the shortest possible time, consider the possibility of preparing the Bill on Transplanting and Founding a Donor Network in BiH"; 18. Consideration of the extension of the mandate to the members of the Management Board of BHRT; 19. Giving consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Council of Ministers of BiH and the Government of the Republic of Serbia on mutual representation and provision of consular protection and services in third countries; 20. Giving consent to ratification Supplement No 2 to the 2007 State Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of IPA – Assistance in Transition and Institution Strengthening Components; 21. Giving consent to ratification Supplement No 3 to the 2007 State Programme for Bosnia and Herzegovina on the basis of IPA – Assistance in Transition and Institution Strengthening Component; 22. Giving consent to the ratification of Annex III of the Agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the Kingdom of Norway on the financing of the project in favour of the judiciary or prosecutors in Bosnia and Herzegovina; 23. Giving consent to the ratification of the loan agreement between Bosnia and Herzegovina and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development – The Brcko bypass project; 24. Giving consent to the ratification of the Memorandum of Legal and Judicial Guarantees against the illegal processing of personal data. And we're moving on to the realization of the Ad agenda. 1. The adoption of the minutes of the 28th session 4
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10478	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister and other representatives of BiH institutions, of course and the NGO sector, well, this is an equitant example of me commenting on something that neither I nor this parliament will benefit, but here's what this is about. Since I asked a four, five-session question that all the institutions, from the Council of Ministers, ministries, agencies, administrations, the delivery of certain data, and, here, were the first to respond for which I will not offend anyone, may recall one of the colleagues from the last call because we passed this law in 2008, but let me remind you, this is the State Regulatory Agency for Radio and Nuclear Security and, on the question asked, 'How many employees there are there, where their seats, how much they spend, vehicles', I get this answer and now listen. So they're currently doing 19, and by systematicization they need another 15, so it would take 34, but four years, that's how they functioned with 19. Well, when they're 19, they have seven vehicles, so on average three per vehicle. But it's interesting what they use those vehicles for, so let's say one car to deliver mail, so how many mails they have to drive every day and they need one car, and they're driving it. Has anyone ever heard of who the Director of the Agency is, has he ever reported anything in the media, has he ever reported anything other than that report he sent us or when these auditors are controlling them, so here comes that report, and that's what we do, with the reserve, without the reserve, in the reserve, we let it go. And now 5 he still writes... that he, the director, assigned himself 300 marks mobile phone a month, so his deputy 250 marks, so the assistant director of 100 marks, so the inspectors have paid cell phones, including drivers, so everyone. And now an interesting sentence, of those seven vehicles, says, 'cars have regular services', as if I controlled where vehicles go, so I'm not going to go to the service to control it, but here he wrote it, and says they're being well guarded. I'm surprised they didn't alienate themselves, but here's a good man wrote it. So they spent 18,000 marks in 2011 in that drive, and it says "Welcome to foreign delegations". So which foreign delegations? I don't know if Baradej's ever come to BiH, is he after them and he's looking for these? But since I'm running out of time, this is an example of riding and chaos from all these institutions and how money is being wasted. This is symbolic, but 18,000 here, 7,000 there, 10,000 here, 20,000 here, everybody's paid cell phone, transportation, all of it, here are the agencies none of which are alive, and I'm not going to make cartoons out of Parliament. Has anyone heard of this agency? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We did, when we adopted and passed the law on them and never again.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10480	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10481	Thank you very much, and what else to comment on.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10482	Thank you. Dear colleague Danijela Martinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10483	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. So I asked a question at the 26th session of the House of Representatives concerning public administration reform and referred the question to the Public Administration Reform Coordinator's Office. I asked a very short and precise question, a specific question concerning the reform strategy of the public administration, i.e. the phase of implementation: 'What stage of implementation is that strategy?' It is commendable that I received a quick answer, but it is not commendable that I have received a very vague and inexplicable answer, so I ask that this answer be specified. Why am I not satisfied? I hope that my colleagues have read the answer, and it has been said that out of the 130 objectives of the Revised Action Plan, and realized 9%, partially realised 40% of the realization, 32% of the goals began to be realised, 19% of the goals did not even begin. Says 82% realized, 18% didn't even start. Then they refer me to the website, so you can find further information about the Annual Progress Report on the website www...gov.ba, then more details about 6 projects etc. So, if I wanted to look and read the strategies detailed, I would certainly have read them, but my goal was to specify the measures that have been taken so far, the activities and what objectives have been identified, or realised. This percentage really means nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10484	Thank you. Dear colleague Petar Kunić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10485	Thank you, Chairman. I asked the question about the revision of private colleges by the Commission of the Council for Development and Quality Assessment of higher education institutions in RS. Although my question concerned all higher education institutions of private character in BiH, I received a reply from the Ministry of Education and Culture of the RS. ... the answer, however, is an absurd situation, so the competent ministry recognises the illegalities that occur at higher education institutions of private character. Therefore, the competent ministry issuing licences for the work of private universities, i.e. the university, recognises in fact all the illegalities that are present there. The question arises what about the control bodies related to the activity. So... do the RS operate competent authorities that control higher education? They're absurds, so you can face a situation like this that doesn't apply the law without withdrawing any responsibility. So, the one who signed the permits explains that it is so necessary, etc., and signed the permits for the work of those universities. So, where we live, is this Tunguzija, is it Bijafra? Of course, teachers are not selected according to the law, teachers do not meet the requirements, there are not enough teachers for educational programs, teachers are hired outside, from Croatia and Serbia who have, imagine, dual working relations. So they have a working relationship in Serbia full, or Croatia and work here full-time, and come, in fact, it's the weekend professors. Okay, so what's going on in that education? Well, someone's going to run, is there someone to raise the question, so this is for criminal charges, gentlemen! So it's too much to comment on, you have to read and you'll see what it says, so it's a complete recognition of illegality without taking any action in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10486	Thank you. Comrade Fazliću, I don't see you reading... to comment on the question.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10487	...the last time I got an answer but I was in a delegation to welcome the Turkish delegation.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10488	Go ahead, go ahead. 7
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10489	Here, I will take the opportunity to welcome you and comment on the question from the 24th session, the question of the Council of Ministers doing standardisation on the number of administrative workers employed at all levels of government, from the municipalities, cantons, entities and state institutions through a legal solution. I must admit that I have received one answer that is a little bit astounding to me, but I believe that, after my comment, those who have made this answer will understand the essence of my question. The point of my question was to reduce the number of administrative workers and save large funds in BiH. But you see the answer I received, he says: "As far as we know, there is neither an international nor a European standard related to an initiative submitted by the MP, Mr Amir Fazlić. This type of problem, i.e. standardisation related to it, is a matter of internal standardisation within companies, institutions and the like. We will try to help you through three proposals." Gentlemen, I don't need help, I need help from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is estimated to have the world's largest consumption, that it has the largest number of administrative workers, that municipalities are overbooked, that entities are overbooked, that institutions are overbooked. That was the essence of my question. Not to read any further the explanation that really amazes me, and here I began to admire myself for asking such a clever question that he is nowhere in Europe. I'm not happy with the answer, I expect the Council of Ministers to work on this problem. Standardization can be made from municipalities to all things, one of the initial materials that we're going to have a discussion about can be done. So we want to continue to be the biggest, have the biggest consumption, budget spending to fund the administration. That was my goal, and the answer is indeed, here we take it as the new Council of Ministers' meeting, to assume that there may be a reconstruction, so the reform processes will move faster, so I will renew that question.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10490	Thank you. Moving to b) New Parliament Questions I would like to suggest that MPs bear in mind, please, that we have begun our session late today and if these questions can be asked in writing. Here, I will, in my example, show that I will ask the question in writing, but those who want to go ahead. Dear Dušanka Majkić. My colleagues, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10492	Thank you, Chairman. 8 'My question was addressed to the chairman of the Council of Ministers. I ask the Chair of the Council of Ministers to answer the following questions: 1. What regulates the legal status of the Public Enterprise Official Journal of BiH? 2. When will the Council of Ministers draft the Law on the Official Journal of BiH? 3. Who appoints members of the Management Board of the Official Journal of BiH? Specify who these members are and when they're elected? 4. How much is the 2011 Official Journal of BiH worth? 5. Does the Council of Ministers adopt a report on the work of the Official Journal when the latest report was adopted? Send me a final report. Thank you.'
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10493	Thank you. Dear colleague Mirsad Mešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10494	I'm used to writing questions.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10495	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10496	I'll do it very briefly. So: 'Why did the Council of Ministers not appoint two members of the Management Board of the Srebrenica Memorial Centre – Potocari, and after the submission of the Ministry of Human Rights and Refugees of 6. 2. 2011? This unnamed event has caused the Management Board of the Memorial Centre to work with only four members. Three missing members are proposed by the BiH Commission for Human Rights, our Ministry of Human Rights, one place, one member suggests the RS government and one Federation government. Two proposals have already arrived on 6 January 2011 and have not been appointed until today. Indeed, the quorum is on the edge of the work of this very important body and I ask the Council of Ministers to remove this as soon as possible." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10497	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10498	Mr. Chairman, allow me to welcome everyone present. 9 'This way I direct the parliamentary initiative of the Joint College of the Two Houses of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to decide on a decision by the BiH Council of Ministers to set up a committee for the selection of BiH anthem, which will consist of representatives of both the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and cultural and public workers. After the constitution, the commission will adopt its rules of procedure and plan for its work, establish the text and conduct a public competition for the selection of the text of the anthem, the state anthem of BiH according to the legal procedure, and select the best-ranked text and establish a proposal for the text of the BiH national anthem. After that, the BiH Council of Ministers is tasked with preparing and referring to the parliamentary procedure of the draft law amending the Law on the BiH National Anthem. In my explanation, I quote: Bosnia and Herzegovina is one of the few countries that does not have the text of the national anthem. Although a predetermined tune of the national anthem has not yet been established. The last attempt to determine the text of the national anthem was led in 2009 when the parliamentary procedure did not accept the draft law amending the Law on the State Anthem of BiH, submitted 17. Six. In 2009. I think it is now time that through the legal procedure the people of BiH get the full form of their national anthem, complemented by the text of the anthem, and this can be achieved by the activity of the authorities to be taken immediately." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10499	Thank you. Dear colleague Asim Sarajlić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10500	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am taking the opportunity to congratulate all Catholics here in the hall and all Catholics in BiH today's body holiday. I'd have one question and one MP's initiative. 'My parliamentary question was addressed to the deputy chairman of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Zlatko Lagumdžija. On behalf of the SDA MPs' club, I ask the question of the deputy BiH Council of Ministers Chairman Zlatko Lagumdžija, and this way I ask him to reconsider his decision to entrust the vacant place of the BiH Security Minister to Mr Fahrudin Radončić. We believe that for BiH and all its citizens it would be much more useful for Mr Fahrudin Radončić to act as BiH Deputy Finance Minister. A brief explanation: In the spirit of the agreement and the new SDP – SBB agreement, without reducing the competence or qualifications of Mr Radončić for the position of Minister of Security, however, we appreciate that this is his first participation in power, and that the position of Deputy Finance Minister is therefore more appropriate. We appreciate that in 10 areas of finance and the country's necessary economic recovery, which he and his party personally advocated, and based on its current business results and success, would make a much greater contribution than in the area of security. There are many other positions in the BiH Council of Ministers that Mr. Fahrudin Radončić would have been very successful but unfortunately these positions are currently not empty." Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] The initiative goes ahead of the SDA Club towards Vjekoslav Bevanda, the chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers, and Aleksandar Džombić, the president of the RS entity government. "The chairman of the BiH Council of Ministers to launch an initiative to amend the Law on the Ministrys and other bodies of the BiH Board of Ministers to establish another ministry, including the BiH Ministry of Agriculture. We propose that the future Minister of Agriculture of BiH, with the consent of all leaders of the ruling coalition, be appointed by one of the Ivanković Lijanović family or by a person from their rich humanist party structure. That, in the government of the RS entity, in order to harmonise the authorities at all levels in BiH, a member of the Ivanković Lijanović family or a person from their rich human party structure is appointed at the expense of Bosniak positions in the entity government. A brief explanation: In the spirit of the new transmposition of the government already implemented in four cantons in the Federation of BiH, and in order for the area of agriculture to be treated in a unique way, we appreciate that the realisation of this initiative would have a harmonised and coordinated approach to the area of agriculture throughout BiH. This would certainly be a further quality step in the integration of society and BiH's path to the EU, especially given that most of the EU's pre-accession funds are heading right into this area." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10502	Thank you. If I had to choose between opening a debate on the agenda on these issues and giving your statements like this, I think this is a better combination. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10503	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll have a quick question. 11 'In the 2012 Budget of BiH institutions and international commitments, 20 million KM was planned to purchase buildings, 6 million Mostar, 4 million Banja Luka and 10 million Sarajevo and Tuzla. I refer the question to the BiH Council of Ministers: What structures are planned to be acquired and for which institutions? How many employees are scheduled to be placed in these buildings, and how many square meters will one employee be provided? And third sub-question: Are they planning to buy newly built buildings or will they be built on purpose according to the specificity of future customers' business? I'm looking for a written answer." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10504	Thank you. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10505	Mr. Chairman, while respecting your suggestion to shorten the time to ask parliamentary questions, I will only say briefly that I am asking a parliamentary question in writing. It was addressed to the Federation of BiH and Kiseljak Joint Affairs Service, which refers to the inability to enter the property of Jevta Gavrilović, a worker of the Kiseljak High School, whose right was denied even though he submitted the request in time, although it was only '93. In the following years, he had to leave the municipality of Kiseljak, on the grounds that it was a military apartment, and it was assigned by the self-government authorities of that high school and there was also a verdict by the competent court on entering the property of this apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10506	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10507	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, therefore, very briefly the BiH Council of Ministers is going to the parliamentary issue, which reads: 'Because it has been more than 100 days since the date of the appointment of the new Council of Ministers of BiH, I am interested in how many legislative proposals have been set out in the parliamentary procedure by the newly appointed Council of Ministers of BiH. Data should be provided for each ministry, especially when it comes to meeting the obligations BiH has on the European and Euro-Atlantic security routes. I ask that the answer be delivered in writing." Thank you. 12
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10508	Thank you. Dear Member Azra Hadžiahmetović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10509	Thank you. I am really caught up in questions that fill out today's Parliament session because I don't know... how to qualify it. But here, I'm going to go back a little bit to MP questions, normal, and these stories in the context of the issues that have been asked are probably going to be elaborated in a different way soon. I have two questions for the Council of Ministers, specifically the Ministry of Finance. First, on the basis of which and whose act, or decisions in the planned 2012 budget, you included the amount of 7.2 million KM obtained from the sale of land and buildings in the University of Sarajevo Campus, former barracks Maršal Tito? I, I just want to remind you that the activity of this Parliament has characterized, let's say, the problem in which my question is from the very act of making a decision, or giving consent to the sale, which brings its roots back almost ten years. Parliament has reached conclusions, Parliament has committed the Council of Ministers to something, and here in this context and my question. Second question: 'Do you have any knowledge of the profits made by state and public enterprises and do you intend to propose to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly how they are used? For example. on the Official Journal's account, therefore only as an example, which is 100% the property of the BiH state, there is a accumulated profit of around 20 million KM." I have these two questions for the Council of Ministers in writing. I have another question that, in the absence of any other business opportunities in terms of asking questions to the College of the House and the Joint College, and also in the context and obligations of the Council of Ministers in terms of the implementation of an initiative, I am asking you and us, and this is about the initiative this House adopted a few months ago: to urgently discuss the economic situation in BiH. The Committee supported the initiative, the initiative travelled somewhere in the process, in a changed form, according to the Council of Ministers addressed. It's been six, seven months since then. The initiative is initiated, I repeat, with an emergency sign and in that sense I want in some way and the answer: When will be the realization of this initiative finally? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10510	Thank you. Dear colleague Danijela Martinović, question. Here you go. 13
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10511	So, I have one parliamentary question for the Council of Ministers and it says, "When will a task force be formed to analyse the situation of the Public Procurement Agency and the Board of Appeals?" Reason: At the 8th session of the BiH Parliamentary Assembly session of 25. Last year's report on the work of the Board of Appeal was discussed at paragraph 10. The House of Representatives adopted the Report with two conclusions proposed by the Finance and Budget Commission. The first conclusion speaks of the formation of a construction group. The conclusion reads: 'Because of the many years of problems expressed in the work of two key public procurement institutions, the Public Procurement Agency and the Board of Appeals, the Parliamentary House of Parliamentary Assembly is asking the Council of Ministers to form a working group that will analyse the situation in these two institutions. The members of this working group should be the people of the Council of Ministers and three representatives of the House of Representatives', these were – Mrs Dušanka Majkić, Ismeta Dervoz and my smallness. However, nine months have passed since this conclusion was adopted and we have no feedback. That's why I'm asking the Council of Ministers to provide me with an answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10512	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10513	I thank you, Chairman. I welcome you all very much. I have the usual questions, not the unusual ones we've heard, so those little questions that should improve some of our way to Europe. 'What are the reasons why IPA Project Component 1 is not implemented regarding strengthening... institutions and preparing for pre-accession funds providing 2m euros for staff training? The project has been difficult for years. What are the consequences of the unrealisation of the project, and how will future projects be affected? Why does the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations, in addition to finding that there are political disagreements, not continue to work to reach an agreement on resolving these disagreements and what is the role and merit, the irresponsibility of the Environment Sector, which does not impose questions of unrealisation of projects in the field of ecology on solving?" And the second question came from the response I received from the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations at the joint session of both homes. 'I am now asking the Directorate for European Integration to provide me with a list of issues that are assessed as politically incompatible and why it is not possible to carry out a technical part of the programming and implementation process of IPA projects. I would ask the problems to be defined according to priorities and deadlines of obligations that cannot be realised because of the above-mentioned political disagreement." 14 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10514	Thank you. Dear colleague Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10515	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question concerning the worrying data on BiH's decline in exports for the first four months of 2012 of 10% compared to the same period last year. This is the second drop in ex post-term exports, 2009 was reported as a result of the global financial crisis decline of 18%. So we're entering another year where the worrying movement of exports is, and as we know, our assumptions about economic growth are about export-related growth, so we can certainly have a consequence of slowing down growth if it even exists. The main causes of the stalemate are that the CEFTA area failed to export. The drop in exports to the area is 23%, while the EU remains at the level last year. I ask the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of BiH – How are these movements assessed by the Ministry? Is it a short-term disturbance or a long-term trend of export congestion and what measures are the Ministry's intention to step up exports in this year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10516	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10517	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I, by respecting your suggestion, have two questions and deliver in writing, with just one small request and a finding. The questions we asked months ago have not yet been answered, so we ask the service to intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10518	Some questions are difficult, so it's harder to answer, some of them are easy, so you get right away. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10519	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very short. 'So, on the background of the comments I gave to the parliamentary question, I am asking the new Council of Ministers and the Chairman, although the Honorable 15 chairman, Mr Bevanda, said in an exposé that they would do so, but here I am asking them to start from at least three, four agencies and institutions to rationalise the costs that I spoke of only one agency, and by adding what is the honourable Member of Professor Prof. Domazet set up – What is waiting for us if we start with wasteful consumption, and exports fall, will fall even more by entering the EU, or Croatia has already entered the EU and there will be a Chinese wall on Savi, so we will get into even more difficult problems? And I'm warning you, here's the third year, so we don't get into any more serious trouble, and then we get to the head of what happened to us. I ask the Council of Ministers to start rationalising at all levels as soon as possible, in all sectors and to reduce this general consumption and, I would say, and chaos in consumption, where no one is responding to anyone, and only we here are sometimes concerned and caught through parliamentary issues. I get the answer, and I can commend this director, but how am I gonna stop him from spending this much? Uh, one, two, a hundred directors and so on at 63 agencies. I don't know how many other administrative organizations formed by the Council of Ministers and this House of Representatives, the Parliamentary Assembly, and let the information come out once. Last year when we were on temporary funding, I see everyone survived, no one failed, they all took money, no matter what the budget was, everything survived. Let us survive as a country, lest we fail because of these export seasons, it'll be worse, it'll be even harder. So now that we know all this and we have it in mind, let's at least warn about where we can reduce general spending and general chaos in spending budgets. So I repeat, the Council of Ministers should go and take if they need to sit down three, four of these organizations and say - mobile phones, whatever there is to be paid to an assistant, a courier, a driver, and I don't know who, they don't pay an MP, they don't pay anyone, nobody does. Who he has to call, if you're ever sitting in an office, but I see his expenses there are even higher in his office than on his cell phone. Whoever calls everyone, no one knows anymore. That's why I'm asking for an answer, to go directly, which would be said, to listen and to wipe out this javelin if possible, and it is. And that this Parliament is definitely saying once -- gentlemen, do it, if you don't, we'll go out here with suggestions and say there's no paying for anyone's cell phones in these institutions that no one knows what they're doing, no one's responsible, and how much more money they'll take from this poor people."
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10520	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Moving to the 3rd point of the agenda: Ad. 3. Declaration by the House on setting a new deadline for delivering the report or suspending the legislative procedure on the Customs Tariff Bill, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH At the 26th session, held on 19th. 4., the bill was adopted in the first reading. At the request of the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs, the House College approved an extension of the time limit for submitting the report to 6. Six. In 2012. Six. Six. In 2012, the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs again requested an extension of the deadline for submitting the report, i.e. removing the item from the agenda, because 16 had postponed the debate over the absence of the legislator, i.e. the representative of the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the statement of the Council of Ministers of BiH. As the Kolegijum has already approved an extension of the deadline and the report has not been delivered, this is where, in accordance with Rule 111(6) of the Rules of Procedure, the House declares that a new deadline has been established or that the legislative procedure has been suspended. I'm opening a debate.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10522	Chairman of the House, Mr. Milorad Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10523	Thank you. The College has considered this situation and simply has a lot of arguments to postpone, or suspend, the legislative process. Namely, this law was sent to the Parliamentary Assembly in 11.1.2012. Our Constitutional Commission is already 31. 1st gave an opinion on this law. For more than five months, we have been discussing this law and stuck in a Commission that cannot deliver a report. Many other reasons were to suspend this law and it was also proposed here to withdraw from the agenda. But the worst thing that can happen is that this law has been bothering the Commission for five months. And that is why I think that all the conditions have matured to suspend the legislative procedure of this law, to give good consideration to the Council of Ministers on which to make the next proposal. I came out because, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have the opportunity to choose: to approve the Commission, or propose a new time. Since no one has stood up and proposed to vote on it, I have stood up to propose that we vote to suspend the legal procedure. And if that doesn't work, then let's see that we give the second deadline to the Commission to do so. I'm sorry. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10524	It's not anymore, it's more of an explanation. If there was a formal statement in the agenda, etc., I would, at least I didn't understand, and I believe the rest of them, that I should get up now and say I'm up for it. I'll plead when we plead. So, you're in the agenda formulating a statement: whether this or that. And I don't see what we can discuss any further. We'll plead, it's clear.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10525	Let me read to you: 'A statement by the House on the establishment of a new deadline for reporting or suspending the legislative procedure.'
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10526	You're gonna put each other to a vote? 17
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10527	We haven't set a new deadline, nor has anyone suggested it. I was the first one to suggest we stop, and we'll vote on that first. And if someone suggests (now they're just reporting for discussion) a new deadline, then we'll vote on it. Dear colleague Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10528	I apologize for not being present in the O.R. at a time when this point was the subject of debate, but I hope that my discussion will help, and I will try to convince the need to set a new deadline that would be 19th, given that the session will be 21st, because we have made a lot of efforts to reach this law, given that at least what I could hear from my colleagues on the Commission itself, a consensus has been reached on the greatest number of amendments. My assessment is that in 19th, the Commission could plead on this law. We had an earlier problem because a representative of the IRS sent a request to the ministry and to the Council of Ministers who allegedly had not been accepted. There's been another problem here. We have here a statement from the Ministry, no statement from the Council of Ministers. I think that the conditions have been met after today's meeting of the Council of Ministers and we will have a practical before us and a statement from the resolution ministry and a statement from the Council of Ministers. It remains only to be declared by the Commission in 19th and, practically, the House could be declared 21. It seems to me that it's a order of things that won't disrupt anything, it's useful for the economy, so I'm appealing if possible, Mr. Chairman, that you and your conclusion, too, at least, if you're correcting anything and we can come up with a final attitude and debate 21. It's not far, we've been discussing this issue for a long time, and now that we've just come to the point where we have to decide on it, I mean, if there's no law on the 21st, then we don't need it, so let's do it under the old law, and then we'll do it next year. But here I suggest that it be 19th, then the Commission could plead, and the debate would be 21st. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10529	Thank you. Dear colleague Saša Bursać, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10530	Thank you, Mr. President. I welcome the esteemed Presidency, fellow MPs, gentlemen on the left and others present in the O.R. Well, I am absolutely, so I am a member of the Commission who pleaded on this and I am closer to Mr. Živković's opinion than Mr. Bojić, although both proposals are very constructive on our part. However, considering that we on the Commission have already met several times to ask 18 people to deliver their opinions to us, to postpone it several times already. I don't see why we shouldn't even take it off today. Because they'd turn out to be inconclusive again, they'd turn out to be irresponsible to this home, to themselves, because somebody can play with us again, and it seems to me like playing again would be 19th and 21st, and they'd put themselves back in a funny and awkward situation. It's a funny situation for us to meet at the Commission. We have this item on the agenda, and we can't finish one point, but we're meeting five times to get something, five times 10 minutes, so every 14 days, to make a decision or not, or to beg someone to deliver their opinion or to agree. So the first thing was to agree with the Department of Indirect Taxation with the Ministry, so the Ministry was supposed to agree with the Council of Ministers, so he needed this one, the one with the one with the one. I think these people are playing tricks on us, and I think that's how we break our reputation, and so I'm getting closer to Mr. Živković's opinion that we need to suspend this legislative process today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10531	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10532	Gentlemen of the chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, distinguished guests, it would be best for me to act as an opposition representative now to say, well, take this off the agenda, suspend the procedure, etc. But I think it would be a shame, given that a lot of effort has been made to finally find this law, here, in the second reading, in the parliamentary procedure. The second question is what, here at the Council of Ministers, there seems to be no desire or will to come to the meetings of the Commission, because for the last time, we have taken off the agenda and we have not debated the amendments. Of course, with reason and the need for the Council of Ministers' opinion on the amendments tabled. Therefore, I ask you to give one additional deadline to the Commission in that second reading, so to speak, to the Commission on the subject of amendments and to have this law on the agenda in Parliament already at the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10533	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10534	I would also briefly support the need to set a new deadline. I would also call on the Rules of Procedure, Article 108(2), which says: 'If the proposing or the proposed representative is not present at the committee', which is the case here, 'and she finds that the proposing or the appropriate proposing representative is necessary', which is again such a fact, 'the commission may postpone the debate on this issue and inform the motionor', which we have naturally done, 'that he is asked to attend the next session'. Since we are looking for the first time, in writing, to attend this next session, the logic of the Rules of Procedure is said, if, namely, further from the Rules of Procedure - if the motionor or his authorised representative does not attend the next session, which 19 should happen to the Rules of Procedure, he is considered to have given up the proposal. So we're practically going to have a situation that, here, you're saying we should end up with this law today, which is what the commission is informing the chairman of the House. I call on you to act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, because the Rules of Procedure will surely be the best way to resolve this situation. Here I am not going any further because I would further complicate and, ultimately, you have and I will repeat once again, the call of economic operators, the external trade chamber, the RS Chamber of Commerce, the Canton Chamber of Commerce, the Federation's Chamber of Commerce that agree with the need to pass this law. We're in a phase when we're close to this solution. It would be a shame to say today: all this effort has been put in place so far is no longer worth it, you're making a new law. I think we're on the verge of passing the law. I appeal to all those present if it is possible to access the proposal for a new term, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, as I have already read it. It is practically a reference in the Rules of Procedure, so that a quality solution can be reached. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10535	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10536	The Honorable Chairman, well-respected counterpart Bojić, is right when he quoted the rules of the Rules of Procedure, but if he had someone to apply to. We have also received this law in the procedure, without having previously respected what Mr. Bojić is talking about, but he needs an introduction. First of all, the law came to us without consulting the Directorate for indirect taxation, because without them there is no law at all. The second thing, we played this in our first reading, thought, understanding problems and economies to help, but when the participants in that chain of arrangements did not respect the procedure. Why has the Ministry of Economic Relations not consulted all relevant factors needed in the adoption of a single law proposal? So, the Directorate for indirect taxation, avoided entity ministries, entity governments, chambers of commerce in a particular sector, where everyone was to participate in the chain. And we get a proposal from this law and then we spin four or five sessions and then the last session, I meet colleagues who aren't members of the Commission. What's going on? No law firm, no reference officer, no authority, no no one's here. There's no indirect tax administration and let's hear them again what's going on with their amendments. No opinion from the Council of Ministers. There's no one here. And now left to us – what shall we do? I never said here that I was closer to this initiative or that initiative. But this is a vicious circle. No law can enter the procedure in this way if, I repeat, in the adoption chain, the first proposal, everyone is not consulted. And it's obvious they didn't. And what will the promoter, anyone in front of this ministry, explain to me, if those of the Direct Taxation Authority tell me - you don't have our opinion on this. That's why I, not because of this, that someone would not have misunderstood what the chairman suggested from my party, but this legislative procedure should be suspended in this way, because what we're going to get. Here's the 19th we'll have a session of the Commission, the 21st wait. What are we waiting for again? To say the same thing again, the Board for 20 indirect taxation -- you haven't consulted us, you can't pass the law, you haven't consulted the entity government, you can't pass the law. So come on, guys, do something for once! When you propose the law, you have everything you need to consult with, arrangements, alignments, so you do, you have time. Now, of course, someone's here against us helping the economy. This way, it's not about the economy, it's about certain sectors that are putting terrible lobbying pressures on someone not to bring this up. But let's totally bring the Customs Tariff Act, so see who else is there, some tariff numbers that are other interested, not just for certain numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10537	Replica, dear colleague Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10538	I'm very sorry that I'm going to have to rephrase my colleague, Jovičić, it's not my practice. But this kind of demagogy, a colleague of Jovičić's, is unseen, you know. Because together we're sitting on the same committee that you had a representative of the indirect tax administration who says that, here, I'm here and there are no amendments. And then we said it was really a shame not to consider the amendments to the Office's amendment to indirect taxation, which you're talking about. And we had the opinion of the Board of Direct Taxation. And we have the view of the Foreign Chamber of Commerce and we have the views of the Chamber of Commerce, one, the other, the third and the fourth. And we have a situation where it's good for economic operators. So, in addition to those facts, you're now saying that, and we end up with, we had a proposal for this bill from the Council of Ministers that was present at that session itself and his desire to still consider this issue. And colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović took over all the amendments from the Directorate for indirect taxation and said, 'As you cannot be the promoter of the amendment, I, as Šemsudin Mehmedović, will take over your amendments and be proposed at the next session.' And it was done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And now we have a situation, the Resort Ministry has declared itself. And we say we need the Council of Ministers' decision. And I think it's good to go through the Council of Ministers. So what's the problem now? The problem is that we wait for 19 so this home can plead the need for the economy to benefit from the adoption of this law. Well, I don't know what else we need to do here, and for a year we've been discussing and talking about this law. And it's no problem to cross-reference the arguments and the fact that we say that no tariff has been delivered to this one. Well, last time we talked about tariffs, and what kind of document it is if it were, seriously, that's a question. I have no intention of breaking this thing over our knees, but at the same time, I think it's pointless not to allow the Council of Ministers and the Resolute Ministry to come out with this proposal because, therefore, there is support, there is not a single Chamber of Commerce that hasn't said that this is okay. Not one. No cantonal, no federal, no RS Chamber of Commerce. So for what reason do I now have to accept this kind of approach where it's said to be an irresponsible relationship like this or something? Yes, there is a certain kind of those who, with intent, do not want to come to the adoption of this law. But let's take it out here in this House of Representatives and see whose positions it is. I'm telling you it's in the interest of the economy to pass this kind of law. If it isn't passed now, it's better if we don't bring it at all, so we'll bring it next time, let it go according to the existing law. So much effort has been put into contacting the amendment's proposings, each and every one of them individually. Here are the colleagues who have tabled the amendments, whether they have been invited to the resolution ministry and have been discussed with them every detail of the amendment. And a large number of objections were adopted 21. And we've come to the stage that we need to pass the law, and now we have to do a show here about whether it's going to be or not, or whether it's going to be an approach like this or something. I call once again, I think it is useful for this parliament to pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10539	Thank you. Replica, Reverend Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10540	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, Mr. Bojić, we understand each other completely, but you said one thing yourself that's crucial. The indirect taxation administration cannot act as an amendment. But that they could have made a deal earlier in the chain, because without consulting the Directorate for indirect taxation and this ministry as a proposing, there is no law in the procedure. And when they couldn't make a deal, they didn't know what they were going to do from the administration, they knew they couldn't. And it is normal that we have come to the stage that distinguished colleague Mehmedović has taken it as his amendments. But I'm asking one key question - when the law goes into procedure, if we don't have the consent of the IRS, it's clear to everyone that he can't get the final form. So we didn't have a statement from the Council of Ministers in the final proposal. In all that chain, I'm telling you about the procedure and I'm not even telling you who made the appointment or who to blame. And especially, no one can impute me that I'm not in favor of passing one law, to help the economy and anyone. But this way we won't help them. And another thing, this resolute ministry of the present isn't proposing this law. This law is six years in the process, so we've been taking some tariff numbers by segments and accepting it, so we've been leaving it, so now it's like the first law from the department. I don't mind if we help anyone. But we're not gonna help anyone. You mentioned chambers of commerce, I agree, they need their opinion. But you have no opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as an entity that is interested, without whose opinion and respect in the overall negotiation procedure you cannot obtain. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Where was it? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10542	Just a minute please, you have the right to say it in the replica, just a little bit. 22
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10543	I got, here's an open story, I always say, I got the opinions of the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that this law is harmful to the economy of the RS. What do we do now? What do we do now in this way as suggested? What do we do now? So I suggest you withdraw from the legislative procedure and when someone comes, here's your time by the end of the year, suggest a law in a new form, and don't take four or six tariff numbers, which is in someone's interest. And how are we going to help the economy? We're not gonna help the economy. We won't help the economy if we have the upper parts of the shoe, if we don't have the complete shoes. There's nothing on the top. There's a barefoot down there again, and we're not gonna do anything.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10544	Wait a minute, let's move on. Dear Ambassador Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10545	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, I called before Mr. Borislav Bojić gave an explanation, as chairman of the Commission. The thing is, then, clearly, I answered because I couldn't accept that the Commission hadn't done its job, because there's no commission that can't do its job. He's got to do it one way or another. If that's it, let's see what the problem is. Why isn't the Commission working? That's not what it is. Every commission has to finish its job. So, the thing is simpler to me now, so the Commission wrote one letter, they'll write another letter, and if the promoter doesn't come, he'll propose to put the thing out of the procedure. Who wants to vote in favour of, who wants to vote against, and let's keep going. That's why I think the man explained this thing and that we should accept what Mr. Bojić was talking about. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10546	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10547	I'll počeću where my colleague Džaferović stopped. Every commission has to finish its job, but provided it has the conditions to finish it. Most often, if the commission does not have the position of the Constitutional Commission and the competent commission, it cannot finish the job. In this case, the Commission is suffering because it does not have the necessary conditions to complete this job. Never so far, this is the first assembly of Parliament to adopt the Customs Tariff Act without a customs tariff. You know, fellow dear, what does that look like? To adopt the budget only on the first page, and to keep all that structure budgetary for a second chance. Or worse, to give the Virman, fill him up, anything but the amount. There are few possibilities where abuse can be done as in the Customs Tariff Act. The moment the Board of Directors of Direct Taxation said it could not accept the proposal, it was enough that the Commission should not even discuss it. And yet the Management Board went one step further and said that the customs tariff should be prepared by the end of the year and put 23 in function 1. 1. 2013 And that's why my fear of passing a law that doesn't have what the law refers to. Well, that's precedent. I can't help but doubt good intentions, regardless, the consent of the chambers of commerce are necessary, but they're not enough, there's no key document, and that's the administration of indirect taxation that needs to say it. In fact, the law has come to procedures incomplete, half the law is missing. And in such a consolidation of power, it's already said, I want to warn myself that there are lobbyists and already inside of us, who strongly lobby to get to the law without knowing what the customs tariff looks like. I really don't think anyone here should dare vote for something they'll someday get to see what it looks like. And I think the only way to get out of this is to keep this proposal proposed by Živković to continue working on a law that will contain the customs tariff and the consent of the Management Board as soon as possible. That would do the job with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10548	Thank you. Dear colleague Šemsudin Mehmedović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10549	I apologize for replicating this here again, but so that there is no fear, as the Honorable colleague Majkić says, that we will adopt something that is not known, in fact to adopt something and we do not know what we have adopted, amendments that I have accepted from the Constitutional Committee, that is, to define the Customs Tariff Act, that is, Article 1 more precisely defines what the Customs Tariff Act actually covers, whether it is also a nomenclature, whether it is a customs tariff, or tariff numbers all, as they have so far been applied. Therefore, I think that a chance should be given to the competent ministry, i.e. the Council of Ministers to plead on all these amendments, and in the meantime, the Management Board would have the opportunity to say about the entire text of the law, which if they accepted the amendment to give their positive or negative opinion and only then could they possibly declare themselves here. So I think here if there are lobbyists, then there are lobbyists to lobby for the good of the economy. And I'm one of them, here for the sake of BiH's economy, I'm one of them, and I'm not ashamed of it. So, looking for reasons to break this law in that, to instill someone's name, I don't think it's, at least, correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10550	Thank you. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10551	I didn't say anyone's name, but it's obvious, it's, I mean, seen from the discussion. If the Management Board of the Direct Taxation Board can submit a document called 'The Management Board' by the next session of the Commission and if the Council of Ministers can deliver a tariff which, as I heard it, I do not see any reason why the Commission would not adopt and propose a House of Representatives to do so with the necessary documents. Without it, we have no elements for the adoption of this law. 24
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10552	Thank you. Dear colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10553	Thank you, Chairman. Well, here I was expecting that the discussion so far would be in the context of the agenda point, the formulation of the procedure, not the very law and what the customs tariff is wearing. Because we had the opportunity to even in the first reading, or at the first debate, here we talk about principles, and here I will remind you of my discussion which was also in the context of the arguments heard here today, from legal illiteracy, from intransparency, from an explanation of the need for urgency, and the law was acidified, conditionally said, a few months in the procedure. Here is the man and confused, given that the bill was made at the time of the term of office of Mr Zirojević, and the procedure is being entered at the time of the new minister's term of office, i.e. the new Council of Ministers' meeting. We also have overlaps here, whether or not the Administration or the Ministry, etc. to give the final word, but here may be the suggestion: best to send the WTO tariff, to see what a single customs tariff looks like, a single customs document in which the Council of Ministers makes decisions on one part and on another Parliament, etc., or in which there are types of illiterate and non-transparent formulations. I will, however, focus only on how the formulation of the agenda point is, taking into account the fact and the need to bring the customs tariff in line with the single customs nomenclature and also with the obligations arising from our WTO membership application and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which has already been signed, and the CEFTA Agreement, which has already been signed, from which we have taken the appropriate commitments. I will propose that the determination whether to suspend the procedure of this law or to extend the mandate of the Commission for the amendment phase, to make the determination shorter, a shorter period of time. So, what will be faster for us to come to Parliament. Is this with the Commission and the follow-up of this procedure or possibly with some new proposal, so to reduce the deadline of compliance with EU and WTO standards and the obligations we have made under international contracts, but not at all at the cost of quality and transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10554	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10555	Mr. Chairman, since this is really about one very important corporate law, which is about foreign trade exchange and even more about protecting our economy, I think we should still give this law a chance. The foreign trade ministry has barely managed to win EU negotiations to introduce protection measures and mechanisms for protecting domestic production in the bill. Regardless of the problems in coordination between the Directorate for Direct Taxation and the 25 Ministry, the irresponsibility of the actors, due to the importance of our companies, our economy, I appeal and here I am asking my colleagues to set a deadline for the delivery of the report, means that the opportunity to accept that term on 19 June, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and that this law be found at the next session here, which I also held on the Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs and discussed last time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10556	Thank you. Dear colleague Boško Tomić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10557	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very serious document and a law that we shouldn't go through so easily. And it's no coincidence that the previous minister and this ministry led this activity, but that we didn't come up with any quality solution. In a conversation with those concerned, I had the opportunity to contact, and in BiH, more than 20,000 people are employed in leather and textiles, and they care very much about making a quality law. But to adopt a law where we don't know what the consequences are and what customs rates are, or tariffs, I think it's a little bit funny, regardless of its total size that we're talking about, but we need to know exactly what the short version of what it refers to. For example, there were 461 million shoes exported to BiH last year, and 252 million were imported; fur and skin were exported to 178 million, and 382 million were imported; textiles were exported to 353 million, and 754 million were imported. Why am I saying this? Our chance to hire and create new jobs is precisely in textiles and leather. For these reasons, we should give incentives to domestic producers. And here's what kind of incentive we give with existing rates. Customs rates in BiH for leather strips 10%, in the EU are 2.5%. Then soles and heeles, rubber heels are 15%, and in the EU are 3%. The upper parts of the shoe are 15% and in the EU are 3%. We make, our leather factories make shoes for the world's largest, most famous brands; if they had better percentages, or if they had lower customs tariffs, they'd be able to place these goods on our premises. For these reasons, I think the law should not be passed quickly, it should not be brought without the full customs tariffs, so that we can send a message to the people who do the production to think about them. There are over 20,000 people in this branch, we have reserves. What can we do? We can't make any more planes, no more engines, no more trucks. We can wear textiles, shoes, we can power, and these are the things we have to deal with. Why would we import shoes, and if we could just release some of these customs rates, to reduce customs rates, to bring ourselves closer to the European rate, we would have competitive our producers, who could make our exports, which is unfavourable in relation to imports, better. For these reasons, I am for Mr. Živković's proposal, the chairman, to postpone this and simply prepare a quality law from which we will send clear messages – that we are going to protect domestic producers. From this, no one can convince me that we can grow to protect domestic producers here, if that was our goal. Thank you very much. 26
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10558	Thank you. Chairman of the dom, Mr. Živković, come in.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10559	Thank you. Namely, this would be the third download or extension of our commission. I would remind you that once we did so, when it was due to be held at the session on 10 May, because the Commission has delivered its conclusion that, given the holidays that they cannot arrive, that only 8 May can have their session, we are extending it for the May 24th session, and, on 24 May, at the request of the Commission, the College has renewed the deadline for the session... which we have today. And after that third extension, we ask our commission to extend the deadline for the delivery of the report again. Members read from the Rules of Procedure about writing to a specific promoter, but not that the commission can also sit the next day and that the proposing comes the next day and that the day ahead, as today the Foreign Affairs Commission has held a session and before today's session the promoter comes, if he wants to come, and that we have it at the session today. Obviously, you haven't read the good members. It is not said in those members that the commission should re-announce after the assembly and beg the promoter to come, but in the time it has. And you saw there's plenty of time to get the promoter in if he wants to come. So today you could say that this report couldn't be written because even today the promoter didn't want to come. Obviously, this law, we do not enter into the metrics now, has caused so much controversy in the Parliamentary Assembly that it wants jurisdiction, humiliated, and I think this law should be removed from the procedure. Thank you. No more discussion, we're closing the debate. Moving to the fourth item of the agenda: Ad. 4. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, Law No 01,02-02-1-17/12, of 8. 5. 2012 (second reading) At the 28th session, held on 24th. 5. The bill was adopted in the first reading. The Commission responsible for Finance and Budget 5. 6th, the Report adopted two amendments, which become an integral part of this law. Ambassador Salko Sokolović submitted a proposal for an amendment which, in accordance with Article 118(2) of the Rules of Procedure, again defends at the plenary stage. I'm opening a debate on the draft law in the second reading. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović, please. 27
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10561	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I welcome all present. The SDA did not vote for the Budget of the BiH institutions and international obligations, among other things, we said that one of the reasons was that our failure to achieve a planned wage reduction of 4.5%, especially those employed by police agencies and defence and security structures of BiH. Following this principle and this amendment for the simple reason why we believe that if the Law on Salaries and Refunds in BiH institutions in the second reading is adopted today, there will continue to be uncontrolled erosion of the economic and social status of employees, especially in these police structures. For this reason, we have proposed this amendment to Article 3 at the SDA Club, and here I represent this amendment. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Salaries and Compensation in the Institutions of BiH, we have given a new member 'b' is amended and reads as follows: 'Extremely from Article 7 of this Law in the period from 1. 5. 2012 to 31. 12. In 2013, for the account of employees who have a coefficient of 1 with a coefficient of 1.52 will apply a base of 498,10 KM.’ So, we suggest that for this category, it means a great deal to think about the institutions of the state that employ this structure of people, this is for those who haven't analysed these coefficients a little bit better, and we think that in this way we will prevent... further violations of the economic and social status of these categories in the Border Police, the Agency for Investigation and Protection, the Police Coordination Directorate, the Foreign Affairs Service and the Agency for Prevention and Co-ordination of the fight against corruption. The debate on the Commission we had two days ago included remarks from the Ministry of Finance that there would be insufficient funding to finance the consequences of this amendment if it was adopted. I'm going to point out that there's about 11,000 employees working here, that it's a middle-aged expert who's preparing it, and that financial effect is somewhere around $6 million. After comments from the Ministry of Finance representatives, we responsiblely claimed that this information was incorrect, that it is true that we currently have about 38,950,301 KM in the budget reserve. The budget situation and the analysis of where it was planned... last year ended with a deficit covered by a surplus from the previous year, with a transfer of non-intentionary funds of 31,798,000 KM, the budget reserve is also over 7 million. Since the Ministry of Finance can implement the budget law to restructure the funds, if this amendment is adopted, it will be possible to restructure the funds of this financial effect and it will not be compromised by the phrase we heard during the adoption of the budget, the Fiscal Framework, means there is no leap out of it... and we would, in this way, this endangered category, which is now at risk, help to overcome this difficult economic situation in the coming period. Not just them, I'll remind us here, and for us, so all the employees of the state institutions since 2009, there's been a reduction in wages every year. How? Because in 2009, there was a freezing base that was supposed to be 535 KM, 2010. — 586, 2011. – 642 KM, and 2012. - 678 KM, by multiplying it by the coefficient you can see that the salary of these employees has also been reduced over this period in continuity and I think this additional reduction would endanger their economic status. Let me remind you that in this period from 2009 to 2010, here's only the price of a 1.15 KM fuel, and now 2.55, that's over 110%. These police structures, since they have the right to trade union organizations... have been organised, here are Parliament and the Council of Ministers warning for a long period of time on a problem that could arise. I think that by adopting this amendment, we would have entered into a positive relationship with the unions of these police structures and perhaps, and I would suggest this conclusion, we should also commit the Council of Ministers to engage in dialogue with the unions of these police agencies, because they obviously haven't done so yet. 28 They are partners of the Council of Ministers and I think that in the next period this communication must be established and seen and the real demands of these people and the possibilities when it comes to the budget that some of their things or problems that they highlight are either removed or tempered in a different way. Furthermore, I took advantage of the opportunity during this time period, so I walked up to a few of these border crossings, and here's just to inform you on what conditions these people are working on. So, on top of this difficult economic situation in which they are found with salaries or... in which they will be found if this law is adopted and there is an additional reduction in wages, the report is from Neum: a rolling stock aged, especially vehicles used by police for regular jobs, equipment, especially uniforms increasingly unquality and unquality, jackets after one or two washing lose color so border police officers who first arrive at the border of those who want to enter BiH look ridiculous. The raw materials composition is quite questionable, especially when it comes to shirts, especially those used in summer, influence even on their health. Specific to Neum: out of four border crossings there is only one on BiH territory and that infrastructure, if it can be called infrastructure, is very bad. At this crossing, the conditions are zero, border police officers at that border crossing have no water, no sanitary node, no bracelet, and in the summer they are attacked by insects and snakes. If I were to say that at the other crossings they use is the infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia,
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10562	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10563	And also in one smaller, smaller amount of infrastructure space, here's just another sentence. and the number of employees at these border crossings is minor two, possibly three border police officers working in exceptional conditions, while the examples work on the Croatian side 9 to 12. And here's a little bit of what I wanted to say is the conditions in which these border police officers are working, about their difficult economic condition, that is, all these employees in police agencies with special reference to these most vulnerable, and that's the medium-level expert cookout. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10564	Now, after the replica of Drago Kalabić's esteemed colleague, you can pick up the line and add that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10565	Well, here's what I'm going to do to allow Mr. Sokolović to say what he hasn't said yet. First, I don't think he did, and I think the lapus said he was walking to the border crossings, so I guess he drove off to the border crossings. And Mr. Sokolović's exposure was very exhaustive for a future member of the opposition party, those from the ruling party should elaborate so extensively and exhaustively. It is easier for you to wait until you see what the government will do and then, in some subsequent period, to bring your opposition court about it, than to exhaust yourself with all these numbers, 29 leave it to these ruling parties, let them do it a little bit, it's tiring to collect it, and the opposition usually didn't belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10566	Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10567	Well, I'd like to say that the SDA had a chance to make a lot of improvements in the previous period but it didn't, especially she had a chance to make improvements in the defence and security sector, but she didn't. Exactly what the colleague was talking about, when it comes to the security sector as an example of it, we invited the SDA on many occasions to set a good example on its own, and to show that there should not be 200 people in the Ministry of Security who only coordinate the work of security agencies. So they could show the opportunity for the sector to be, that the Ministry of Security is significantly reduced, and that means within the Ministry of Security to give those of which the SDA has an ex-post mind. It'd be good, but it's not. So, I've said countless times that it's not possible, or this is now about the election. And the laws should never be passed just for the sake of choice.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10568	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Salko Sokolović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10569	Well, thank you, Mr. Chairman. The SDA is not an opposition political party and we are still, Mr. Kalabić, an integral part of the position until something happens or happens. Therefore, we are not opposition, but we are from the position at the moment of adoption of the budget, not in terms of the election campaign, talking about the need to protect this category of people, i.e. to correct their socio-economic status. And I think that would be logical for everyone, not just the U.S.A. And who shall be the opposition, and when it shall be, and what is behind the hill, concerning it when it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10570	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić. Here's the opposition of the real one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10571	I can't help but comment that a man is learning while he's alive, and I guess I won't be able to learn what the opposition, the position, and so on. But we don't spend time on it, we think, as much as it doesn't seem, that such interventions and legal acts are part of one, should be part of a major operation, so a kind of action in society that aims to reduce public spending, that is to say, in some way to find answers to the upcoming and even worse upcoming situations in the 30 that the country will find. And because of this, colleague Azra Hadžiahmetović insisted that we finally talk about the economy here, so that this measure that goes in the direction and it is acceptable for us to go to a reduction in public consumption, etc., it is obviously both insufficient and quite intransparent and in some way, by us, and a little unfair, does not respect different positions, different categories etc. We talked about it when we discussed it in the first reading and this approach is not acceptable for us. It has been missed that the public, including those concerned, will have damages, i.e. current damage from projects like this, convince them and explain that this is necessary and that it is ultimately useful for everyone in society. However, there was no dialogue, there was no explanation, etc., so we have... complete resistance and dissatisfaction of the good part of our administration, and it is not good to have an unsatisfactory administration. It doesn't occur to me that I'm coming here now, etc. that, as an opposition, I promise something that is unreal, etc. But I'm fully convinced that there's been one correct clear dialogue with people that people understand what it's all about, there's no principle... that people see in which environment we all live together. And the principle of that social sensitivity, or an honest approach, is that those who have the most, begins with us, that they have a greater burden than those who have survival problems. So there's a big gap, according to us, that's missing these conversations. If the replacement for these talks is this via television that each other's messages are being sent, I don't know that they met face to face these representatives of the union and the government or the talks started, but rather late, because measures are already being taken. Mr. Sokolović's amendment, he's going in some direction, so to speak, the demands of these people, but in principle, according to us, he doesn't correct what I'm talking about, and I'm stressing again, we'll absolutely support one systemic approach, so the reduction of public spending that will be transparent, fair, tolerable in the same way, etc. for all those... whose burden goes to. But this untransparent and individual, absolutely, is unacceptable for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10572	Thank you. Dear colleague Anto Domazet. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10573	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the SDP see this law as one of the foundations of the budget that we adopted at last session. So this law is supporting the budget and it is one quality in terms of the sustainability of the budget that is accompanied by laws that regulate one area of major expenditure in the BiH institutions' budget. Our political goal is the sustainability of the budget, sustainability of public expenditure in BiH institutions, which means they can ensure the functionality of institutions within the framework available, the Fiscal Framework. We can talk about the fact that this measure is unpopular, but it is extorted and laminate over the salaries of people employed in institutions, not having in mind the situation in the real sector in the business-business sector and the situation monitored by the sector, which is, in the extreme sense, a public income generator, is not at least correct. We have been informed last time that 95 000 jobs have been lost in the business sector since the major financial global crisis started, and we know that the public sector has increased employment. Yeah, business sector. The real sector continues to fire employees, the social security of workers is minimal and I don't think we have violated that measure, that red line that would endanger the social stability of people employed in BiH institutions, when these circumstances of the business sector are in mind. 31 Our political goal in the SDP is to strengthen BiH institutions in line with the European path and NATO's orientation of BiH, in terms of creating a functioning state. But we need to do this on the basis of functionality, rationality and resource use that is limited and should be increasingly subject to various constraints in the future. The business sector is limited by the market, and we know how ruthless the market is, as far as the market is concerned, economic growth in this year is likely to be 0%, which means that the market is making it impossible to obtain... a bigger profit, and thus ensuring greater wage growth in the business sector, which means that this business sector will have a further lagging behind, a lagging behind in wages, and I believe that the number of employees will also be reduced. We simply, in this whole discussion, were unable to accept the amendments that change the dimensions, i.e. budget ratios, and in this regard we also acted on the Commission for Budgets and in Discussions, i.e. the decision on the proposed amendments. Finally, I would like to say that all that we have done in the preparation of the 2012 budget in terms of rationalisation and savings, this should be the beginning of a long, long-term job that should continue and in the preparations for the 2013 budget, and then many things will be balanced in terms of expenditure structure, in terms of social groups that bear the burden of stabilising the budget, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10574	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10575	I'm not sure – and if Mr. Domazet thought of me that it is not correct not to respect the situation in the business world – I said that I understand, but we are, we are having a debate here on the structure financed from the BiH budget which, we agreed here, which does not have such a structure that it can have a special impact on the business world and the real sector etc., but it is safe and I completely agree with you that this is just the beginning. And just because it's a start, there's this transparency to explain to people in the state administration what's going on and what else is waiting for them in some way. And to show in the beginning one principle of equality and equality, even solidarity, is not lamentation, but simply it is a reality because we will get an unsatisfactory administration. When the state has an unsatisfactory administration, let's know that there are no results, that's that. And finally, I'm glad to hear your political goals, they're absolutely acceptable to me, but every day I see that these goals are something in your other plan, that there are others, but there are others.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10576	Dear Ambassador Saša Bursać, a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10577	Thank you, Mr. President. Here, I want to say a few things. We've been listening to these messages many times, gentlemen of the U.S., concerned about these people who work in these institutions, and so it's already become a little irritable. So I want to look back at a few things, here, I came to this home from the economy and I'm still working 32 in the economy, so I want to put a little order of size in our RS and let's say here in these joint institutions, that you don't talk anymore. You speak in that context as if these people would be beggars, as if they would no longer have bread, as if there was now all this disaster. I want to tell you a few things so you can figure out if it's a disaster, good or bad. Of course, I've never had to lower any wages, no, it's not popular, as someone said, it's not of course today and at this time and at all prices and to the standard of life it's very difficult for people, but I want to tell you a few things, let's say from the economy, which feeds us all here, the way things are. Somewhere out there where things say that it's not the end of the world if these people, it's not the end of the world to those people if they pass a law like this. What I'm saying is, let's say, in forestry, in a public enterprise in RS with medium professional training, the average salary is in a public enterprise, so wages, the basic salary is 504 marks plus 185 marks a warm meal, so you get something. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] What? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10580	Receipts?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10581	No, no, I said exactly, so the average salary is 504 marks, it's a salary plus a warm meal of 185, and then total receipts come out slightly less than 700 KM. So, without a job internship and what it means to do, it's the basic salary of a man with medium professional training in public, or basic income of a man with medium professional qualifications in a public enterprise. Let me tell you now that it's in the forest land of Banja Luka's salary dipl.ing, so listen now well, salary, basic salary dipl. ing. Foresting is 621 marks plus 185 marks a warm meal, so you get that 806 marks is total monthly income. And let's say someone who has 20 years of work experience and when he's accounted for everything he needs to be calculated, it's 868 marks that gets someone who's been working in a public company for 20 years as an engineer, a designer, who signs projects, and what the economy in RS depends on. And you now that you take that from the Ministry of Finance came a man and said that the lowest police salary, means not receiving, but paying in RS is 828 marks, and when you see that receiving this means engineer 868 marks, receiving, which is a big difference, because cops have their benefits, so there's a 30% supplement, so I've heard it all on the Commission, it means 30% supplement, so they have night work, etc., so pay around, so let's actually let some of the lowest receipts come out about 110, 115 marks in RS, in the Federation it's more and it's up to 135 and to come to some 1,363 marks, so these people who work here in joint institutions. 33 Why am I saying that? I'm saying that you have in mind that in the economy it's a very difficult situation, and we can't increase, or we can't cut the wages in this part if the economy is shrinking. So this sector of joint institutions and everything has to follow the economy, and that's pure logic, that's pure logic. So it's no demagogy, but now I want to get to the private sector. ... At our place means at the RS store I talked to a worker who works at a store near my house, and she has 400 marks salary, she does everything and one day except for two weeks a month, so Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday and Sunday first shift, so every other Sunday has a free one. And for that work, her boss rewards her with 400 marks. So if we're gonna say someone's a beggar, it's these people, these are the people who make, let's say, make the money that we live on, and these police officers and those people from the joint institutions live on. So don't be worried about these people now, it's going to be terrible, there are big problems, the Border Service, and don't come back to the story of the Border Service when just less than a year ago as it got through all the media about corruption, how many people ended up in court, how many people were arrested, how some foreign researchers said that in some cases, if it were driven to the end, over 60% of customs officials would have been arrested for corruption, because they were all in some soils or God knows what and in some crime. So, it's, of course, not to tie it to the salary, but it's a fact, this worker with her 400 marks has nothing to steal, because if she steals one gum, she goes out of that store and has nothing to eat. In this case, that is not the case, we are fighting to keep the wages, but it is a very ugly struggle in such a way that one of the MPs who is going to defend something like someone is going to be a beggar. He won't be a beggar, so the beggars are the people who make those basic money from which our budgets are being filled, and that's the problem, and that's how you have to take things and stick to paying means you have to follow each other. The economy needs to dictate how much wages will be paid in joint institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10582	Thank you. Wait a little longer, don't wait? All right, esteemed colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10583	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, the guests, we are having a very interesting debate here and we are outsmarting who has more social sensibilities, who less, who would protect the interests of these poor, who less. ... We're talking about different projections, different policies, which are the result, which result in such legal proposals. And what mostly, around the forestkeepers... something to say, and mostly those who defend and attack this bill, are calling for a reduction in public spending. And now if we were to ask a reward question, here among us, are we all to reduce public spending, I guess here, judging by the debates, we're all 100% to reduce public spending. And that's not controversial. Those we are discussing and I have discussed at the Committee, here, defending, I would say, this amendment by Mr Sokolović, at least as he is here alone, is about 11 thousand employees who receive salaries from the BiH Budget. And that and they are not satisfied with these proposals, nor are they satisfied with this bill. Why? Because their base, meaning these 11,000 employees, will be reduced in the range of 24 to 36 marks. You will all agree that 24 stamps represent nothing and that they will neither impoverish these people nor make them rich if they remain 34. And it seems to me that the expression of their dissatisfaction over the announced wage reduction is neither due to this 24, nor possibly by those who have a coefficient of 1.5 - 36 marks. The doorknob's hiding somewhere else. They recognize something we won't admit here, they recognize that in the declared austerity measures we're not honest, we're lying to them. We lie to the whole public, we start saving on them. And they don't see any other traces of that savings anywhere else. Here we will start with the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH, and we will find out, because we mainly don't travel around the country, do few of these diaries charge, so it's not dramatic that the diaries are cut by half, because these diaries are used by these and they were used before 50 marks, now they're 25, so when they add those previous 20 and this by 25 or a few of those diaries they get a lot. But we're travel logs abroad that we mostly use down 10% and they're telling us – you're lying to us, you've cut us 50%, and you're only 10%, even though these abroad diaries are much bigger than the ones you give us. Furthermore, they did not notice that we had reduced or made less luxurious our fleet, which they were throwing to us at the Committee itself with the right. Our fleet remained the same and also representative. So people see who you're talking about saving, and you want to save on our skin, don't tell us that story!? They didn't see that we reduced the costs to any other item regarding privilege. And these privileges are enjoyed by government officials or elected and appointed officials. And that's why I see the expression of their dissatisfaction, so it's not a problem for them in these 24 or 36 marks, because I believe that they will neither enrich them nor impoverish them. Whenever not all good economic experts hear indicators, so they see, we have an announcement or a declaration of a reduction in public spending. Why do we even want to cut that public spending so we can cut people's wages? Well, that's not why we're going to do it, is it? So probably, the aim of reducing this public consumption would be to those talked about this morning by Professor Domazet, meaning those who produce in the real sector, which should be exported, so their revenues are low, etc. or those who reduced the number of employees in BiH last year, e, that surplus income we would have given up, reducing public spending, should somehow be rerouted to them. People don't see how it's directed and not seen, which is a tragedy, that it's directed towards the team at all. Because if we have a declared reduction in public spending, and for this Budget, the BiH institutions said: not that it remained the same as last year, we increased it by 50 million. We can justify whatever we want, we should have, we shouldn't have, etc. That I wasn't coming back, but we increased it, and we didn't cut it down. The budget is total public spending for these in the real sector, they care about the real sector whether we share that 950 million here amongst the MPs or we give everything to the Border Police. They set out for us 950 million for all of us and they'll see the effects when we or some other budget reduce and when we start taking less of them. Whether at less tax rates, whether at lower customs rates, whether through certain incentives, it is now a question for our executive power that this real sector will offer to try to put on its feet. There are no such measures, entity budgets are also growing, regardless of the deficit, and that is public spending; cantonal budgets in the Federation are growing, and that is public spending; municipal budgets are growing, and that is public spending. So whoever we're talking to, we're talking to the border police, we're talking to these customs officers, and I don't know how we chose to cut public spending. And all public spending would be reduced to these 24 and 36 marks. And that's why people don't trust us, and that's why it's necessary that people see, that people feel, not only those who are employed in the institution's budget, I agree with Mr Bursać and with everyone else that today is a privilege on the payroll in the state institution. Because, unfortunately, they only pay every month, they're only safe, no matter how small or large. It's a fact, we all know that. But we are not expected to just find out, we are expected to take concrete measures, to make concrete moves so that this real sector not only declares that we support and impose new pressures on the villa every day, but to show concretely that we really are for a reduction in public consumption and that we are for the discharge of this real sector and that we are committed to raising it, so that not all of us will fail at all and 35 so that we do not come into the position that pension funds are questionable for the coming months, whether they will pay out pensions, health funds – are we going to have this treatment as we have at all. And for the illustration I'll tell you, and that's public spending, the children's allowance in the Zenic-Doboj canton is 12 KM for a child whose family income per family is not more than 90 KM. You can think of supporting parents, intelligence policy and everything else, and I believe that even in other cantons in the Federation, it's not much better. And that's public spending, unfortunately, that's how we treat it, because it's funded through budgets, but I'm comparing only these amounts. I say again, it's not a problem and it shouldn't be a problem if we're going to do this, I'd say, by the coefficients of the lowest-ranked group of employees to cut salaries by 20 or 30 marks, the problem is our credibility, when we tell them that these are austerity measures, because they don't see that anywhere else is being saved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10584	I'm sorry. Dear colleague Salko Sokolović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10585	Thank you, Chairman. I would understand Mr. Domazet that he was part of these problems he spoke of, which the subject of the entity, defined by the conclusion in a way that part of the obligations or responsibilities that entities have transferred to the state, so that we can solve these problems. So here to talk about the problems of entity governments that don't do their jobs or entity institutions that don't do their jobs, there's no need. We need to talk about what's within our reach. So what we care about here is the fact that 13.5 billion are expenditures on all levels, including cantons, municipalities, funds, entities, the state, and that with that 950 million or 7-8% in those 13.5 billion, we will save everything to save the economy of the BiH state, that is, through these employees in state institutions, with a coefficient of 1 to 5.2 if we don't include these 6 million, saved states. If she's saved in such a way, in that economic sense, the buyrum. We need to do this and it's not at all controversial to me. But saying demagogue things, and we have reality in front of us, that's not good. What Mr. Bursać was talking about, means only that he said the same thing, we need to lift cantons, entities, the state of BiH, municipalities, executive authorities and solve all problems. Let's solve the problems. So we're not going to say here that we have 10 administrations per canton, so two entity administrations, so state administration, so how much is it, so how much is it, but we're going to solve everything if this 6 million, this medium-level expert prepares an employee in police structures, we don't. So when we don't give it to them, we're all set. Okay. Furthermore, what we were saying about the private sector also means problem, entity problem. And what we keep forgetting, if one of the border police officers was doing something that wasn't allowed by law, then they have institutions to deal with. But let's forget the fact that these people are making money in BiH, too. At the border crossing, they have their own job to provide additional funds, they won't take 200 km to release the truck, don't put them in that situation.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10586	Time! 36
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10587	We can easily put them in that situation. Okay, thanks, 'cause last time I broke the date.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10588	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10589	Thank you, Chairman. You see, this is of course a difficult topic, and from different angles, we can talk about it for days. That's not controversial. And when you look at some discussions, from the context when you get out, it can be one way or the other. I think my colleague Bursać explained it very plastically, and those who have heard these figures, they understand what the messages of those who are difficult to put an end to and those who finance and those who pay, what they think about all this. But one thing I want to say again, I didn't talk about opposition and position for no reason. Those who have been to the English Parliament know that there are two voting points. One goes to the opposition, one goes to power. And I'd like to ask some of them here which entrance they'd enter. Here's to having two entrances now, I'm asking for the reason why the ministers of the U.S.A. voted for this bill. So you voted. What are we talking about now? I know it's the right for MPs to talk about what they want and what they think... But if there is this public attitude, to say that we are doing it where we are not just sitting in Parliament, we still have a voice in some bodies. I respect everyone's right to have a discussion. But it is small, Parliament should be a relationship of position and opposition, and we are slowly converting this parliament, here some are counting with factions in the party, here some speakers use to deal with presidents, here some people use this speaker to send messages of some other kind, which I can understand, but they're not about this topic. Because we'd have to do it with our money, with our ministers and others to discuss it a little bit. It would be correct for the rest of us. So... isn't it a national scam if you can't tell him if you're a member of the ruling or opposition party? People want to know that, so they can take their stand. So they can follow us, follow what we're doing. Are we lying, whether we're cheating and whether, what would he say, he's cheating? We can't fool ourselves. So we have to say, first, basically that we know which side we're on, so that then, and then in this forest today his minister voted like this, in the evening the two of them are sitting in town, drinking coffee and a minister and an MP, but I'm going to go to Parliament like this. Well, I think we need to clarify that, too, and I think that with that, at least, or some to resolve some dilemmas, which are why we have here in these issues of unseriousness. And what I'm allowing, and I'm not going to comment on the views of people who have a foothold and somehow make sense of their discussion, but there's a way of working towards which at least the least, well, we should sort of determine. I know it takes time, but this can't last forever, either, to vote like this, one way or another, I don't know, we're just saying it's not me, they're there and stuff. Now, that was the reason why I mentioned the question of opposition and positions, so that all people would understand, and what everyone said, and in order to understand their arguments, they had to start to know who they belonged to.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10590	Thank you. Dear Ambassador Saša Bursać, replica. Here you go. 37
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10591	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to replicate to Mr. Sokolović, an esteemed colleague, indeed. You started by saying that entities don't do their jobs. I will again, for practical reasons, go back only half an hour, at today's session, to this third item of the agenda, just to remind you of a few things, where we discussed the Customs Commission, means one of our committees, which can't reach one single opinion for months. So much for functionality. Maybe this is where we should be suspended, if we're gonna talk about functionality. Maybe, maybe we should be abolished here, so all of this... lock down, if we're going to look that way about functionality. So some other things don't work. And you have to give everything a grade, not just say that entities don't do their job. I think some people do it and they do it very well. And that for some things, in fact, you don't wait for a mass of things for five or six months, as you've been waiting here for five or six months, and some laws are also five or six years in procedure. So maybe we should be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10592	Thank you. Dear colleague Emir Kabil, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10593	Dear President, honourable MPs, as a member of the Committee on Budget and Finance, I had the opportunity to meet union representatives, three unions that were in the last, I would say, for several months were very active, when it comes to profiling their interests and protecting them, protecting against measures adopted by the budget. We have absolutely before and today said that we accept the fiscal framework, that the fiscal framework of 950 million is not at all questionable, because the global budget is something stronger than it was before, for some 35 or 40 million, I don't know exactly, so the funds needed for this category, in my opinion, are not a plant questionable. I'd only focus here on one very important thing. I wouldn't replicate any honourable MP and I wouldn't combine apples and pears, or bananas or plums, and I wouldn't compare these people's salary to other salaries, but I would specifically say that what I brought from that meeting was the fact that these people had no contact with their employers directly, which is the Council of Ministers. So they did not agree with the Council of Ministers and clearly said on several occasions that they had no ability to contact those structures that were directly responsible for their salaries. The second thing that surprised me was one charm of police and other officials' salaries at all levels. Let's say, here I checked it out, the salary of a police officer in RS is the lowest, in Zenica it's even lower, in Canton of Sarajevo it's the highest, and at the state level it's below that salary. So we have one paradoxical situation that police stimulation isn't the same in every corner of this country, whatever you want to call it. That's why, in the conversation with them, they came to our committee for the first time, they came here individually several times before, and they came here as a group of unions, so to be fair, I don't know what these unions are doing and how they coordinate their activities. And they came and said they had proposed certain amendments that, I read, had no meaning, were not authorized to submit amendments, but in these amendments there are several things of great quality. I wouldn't bother you with 38 of them, which, in my opinion, the Council of Ministers should have discussed in the... redistribution of the money that exists in this budget. We are therefore in the position that if there is a good will, due to the stability of all BiH institutions, this minimum amount of money can be found to cover this most critical category of employees. I think it can be found at a very low level, that it will not be damaged in any way by the budget, that it will not be damaged in any way, I would say, budget projection over four years, and that in this way, for the next three or four years, through this budget, it will clearly and qualityly provide, I would say, this segment of our police structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10594	I think it's a good idea to finish the debate. We're closing the debate. We're going to the fifth item of the agenda: Ad. 5. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Citizenship of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Proposer: Council of Ministers of BiH, with Opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, children's rights, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics At the 28th session, held on 26. 5., The House did not accept a negative opinion from the Joint Commission, so the bill was returned to the Joint Commission to deliver a new opinion. The Joint Commission delivered a new opinion on 6. Six. In 2012, and it's negative again. I'm opening a debate on the opinion of the Joint Commission, although probably, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you know what's going to happen with this, but I'm opening a debate. Dear colleagues, Mr. Šefik Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10596	.... debate on the law, Mr. Chairman, but on one phenomenon that already appears. So I understand what's going to happen to this law, there's no dilemma at all, so that's quite clear. Whatever you do to me, it will be like this, so now the law is going out of parliamentary procedure. I'm talking about impalementation of the Constitutional Court ruling. And I'm saying this because sometimes they're going to argue about how anyone treated those judgments, because there's a responsibility for not implementing the Constitutional Court's rulings. And I find it unacceptable and this is therefore a message to the Council of Ministers: that when the Constitutional Court's verdicts are implemented, when it comes to doing so by law, things are burdened with other things than things that are of judgment. Please, give us what is the subject of judgment to pass as a law, and the rest of the matter will be discussed. So that's why I got up and wanted to say this. Thank you. 39
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10597	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10598	Thank you. I just wanted to tell my esteemed colleague there's no need to get upset. Slowly, until now, the SDA has not been in a hurry, so the Law on the Single Parent Number was brought down here, and that was the Constitutional Court's verdict. So when we do the first one, then it's going to be this one, and this one, we're going to do this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10599	A colleague, Šefik Džaferović, responds to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10600	Look, colleague, I'm trying very hard to be polite to all my colleagues. I would ask you to control yourselves, to be polite, when you speak to one of us here. And if someone's nervous or not nervous, when you're in private society, you're home, then you can speak that language. Here in Parliament, I ask you not to use that language, because it is not appropriate for one member of the state parliament. And the second thing, the Code of Origin is a law that, apart from the Constitutional Court's verdict, included other important political issues, absolutely unnecessary, and that's what I was talking about in my discussion. We don't need that. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10601	I thank you, dear colleague Džaferović, you have chosen me to determine who, how and how you address MPs and allow me to do my job. I didn't honestly recognize, if you recognized it then it was a subjective feeling. But I think it's been working in this House very politely and with colleagues trafficked. I'm asking you all to keep going in that direction. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10602	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must point out that the proposal for this law on citizenship really abolishs the provision in which our citizens are in fact losing their citizenship, and those who took the citizenship of another country with which we do not have a signed citizenship agreement. I don't want the replicas to emerge immediately, but I do have to mention that by the Constitutional Court's decision, what Mr. Džaferović said, it was found that Article 17 and 39. The Law on Citizenship does not comply with Article 1.7(b) and (d) of the BiH Constitution, and so does Article 14. European Conventions. The truth is this: on June 13th of this year, 40 means a few days from now, the deadline of six months that the Constitutional Court has given the decision to delete the unconstitutional provisions of the Law on Citizenship, because this really violates the human rights of our citizens. This is an opportunity to correct this failure and indeed accept this decision by the Constitutional Court of BiH, which is final and binding. I appeal again to the Members of Parliament to do this with the decision and provision of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10603	Thank you. Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10604	I'll do it very briefly. We've all had a chance to say what we think before. So, even in previous discussions, I have opened up this kind of dilemma, a kind of challenge ahead of us to determine how we will implement ourselves, or how we will respect decisions, or implement decisions of the Constitutional Court. Whether, as they say, it's only true and precise as she says, or if we're going to see it as an opportunity to have some other things, which have or have no reason, that we can also fix them in some packages. Obviously, the practice so far – and it seems that in the future we will also have the need to implement the Constitutional Court's rulings – says that it is very difficult to reach consensus on this variant of enlargement of procedures when we have the constitutional court's decision. So I'm more inclined to agree on the principle, regardless of how when it suits whom, that the Constitutional Court's decision is something that is autonomous and something that should not be tied to others, which does not eliminate the possibility of us doing other things, of course, but under different conditions and under different circumstances. The difference is the next one, because this is binding. I have a little different data when it comes to deadlines. This verdict has arrived and received 3. The 11th here in Parliament, I've talked about it before, and this implementation deadline, by my count, has expired 3. 5. Of course, if I don't remind you of what it says and what the BiH Constitution says, I will therefore propose one conclusion, bearing in mind and it is obvious that this law will end in a way that it will not be accepted. I intend to suggest one conclusion in this case, so: - to task the Council of Ministers to deliver an amendment to the Parlamentary Assembly of BiH by means of an emergency procedure... The BiH Citizenship Act, which will only be treated by members of the 17th and 39th positions (1), therefore, and in accordance with the Constitutional Court's ruling, the number and so on. I am also prepared to support both the conclusions and all other rulings to be implemented in the same way, let's say for a unique home number, etc. So that's my suggestion to try to get out of this, not to enter the sphere of violation, or not to fulfil the obligations arising from the decision, and that these other things, in my opinion, a lot of good proposals were and should be stressed, the Ministry of Civil Affairs respected its obligations. They've done things in deadlines. Thank you. 41
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10605	Thank you. I believe that Honorable colleague Prodanović will propose that all decisions of the Constitutional Court be respected. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10606	Mr. Chairman, therefore, it is important to propose a law amending and supplementing the Law on Citizenship of BiH, but I would like to say that the SNSD Club, SNSD MPs, will remain on the stand, therefore, will support the negative opinion of the committee in charge of the principles of this law. We have more reasons. One of these reasons also refers to the need to approach the amendments of Article I. 7th position d) The BiH Constitution that defined it in the way it did. Also, I don't see any problem with not talking at all. We've spent two years, three years implementing the Census Act, to get to what we've all finally agreed on. I think we're wasting too much time, it's about important laws in the area of security and other areas of citizenship, so together, that we don't reach a consensus on issues of general interest. I don't see that anyone is against BiH and why it would be against the Law on residence and residence, the Law on a unique home number. And that's the Constitutional Court's decision. As the Constitutional Court's decision on Mostar City, it has also not been implemented. Why should we now accept, ok. we are all citizens of BiH, regardless of our ethnicity, threatened with the present.... and we are against it but we are against it to make a legal and legitimate path to that solution that would be acceptable to everyone. So, if we can reach a consensus on these issues, there's no problem, once the Council of Ministers has reached agreement on this. But what I'm saying is that we won't be separated about these three laws having a conversation, at the same session, we're going to make a statement about them, and we're going to accept this in principle about everything. There cannot be something good that is acceptable now for some political party in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly, and everything that is not acceptable is absolutely rejected in any way. Such a relationship was also about the Law on residence and residence, such a relationship was often the SDA's opposition and totally unfounded behaviour, such a relationship is about a unique birth number... so the issue of BiH's constitutional structure has been attacked through the issue of a single birth number. We didn't ask for anything, but it is now. Why should we now raise our hands on the Law of Citizenship so that it can be adopted in this way? So, if we can reach a conversation, there's no problem in adopting these laws. They are in the interest of all and we are not aware that tens of thousands of BiH citizens are left without citizenship, unwarranted, but the amendment to the BiH Constitution could also first amend this member I. 7.d) The BiH Constitution and then go, because de facto, the Law on Citizenship of BiH simultaneously respected the constitutional basis of BiH, as the Constitution defines citizenship, that a BiH citizen does not own a bilateral contract between countries where they cannot have or may have, if there is a bilateral agreement, dual citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10607	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. I'm sorry. 42
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10608	It's not a replica, it's a guilty quote. I think Mr. Prodanović made an accidental mistake. He said tens of thousands of BiH citizens, due to the lack of these bilateral agreements, were left without citizenship. Well, Mr. Prodanović, not exactly, no BiH citizen for these reasons (at least, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, as far as I know, has such information) lost his citizenship because of it. BiH citizens do not remain without citizenship due to the legislation of countries whose citizenship is being taken and, in essence, the implementation of this verdict will not change anything at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10609	Replication response. Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10610	Well, unfortunately, they have to give up their citizenship. I mean, they have to give up their own state citizenship to accept the citizenship of the state they're in right now. So it's not a chicken, it's an egg, but that's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10611	Dear colleague Beriz Belkić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10612	Very short. It is tačan that this variant of which Miss Pandurević says there are countries that ask our citizens to print, ask for a document to get, say, Germany, Austria, etc. But our law says that it is automatically erased, that every person who takes another citizenship is erased from this. So, it's exactly what you're saying, but there's a broader danger, a far wider danger where in the United States they're not looking for a state-of-the-art release, but if you come with an American passport to our service, any, borderline, municipality, etc., and it's determined that you have American citizenship, the official is required to immediately initiate the procedure to wipe you out with automation. So, the fact that we're taking another citizenship, we've made an active approach here, that's what this is about. Where it has to be lost, it's a matter of people, whether this citizenship is going to be this, or whether it's going to be this, but we've done the automatism to automatically delete it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10613	It'll only be deleted next year automatically, not yet. It's still not deleted automatically. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10614	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, of course, I'm not obliged to answer what you've been up to, but I'm just as welcome as a creamworth, since Mr. and my colleague, Prodanović, didn't say a word, so let me say it. 43 It is not Parliament to reconsider the decisions of the Constitutional Court, nor are we to measure what they have decided, final decisions to obey. But let me just mention the principle of the Constitutional Court. In 2005, therefore, in 2012, seven years have passed exactly where they are making a final, binding decision, and then by respecting their deadlines and their rules of procedure, I am waiting for it, so that in a year they have not followed the execution of their decision, and they have been obliged, on a private line, to file a criminal complaint against those persons to whom the Constitutional Court's decision applied. Well, I don't send couriers out of those fuel consumptions, but I take them and I don't go any further, I explain the car, I pay the car, I take them to the D.A., I don't ask the D.A. to meet with the D.A., but here's my instructions, and I put the D.A.'s office on the table. So I go to the office where the mail is received to seal the protocol that I handed it over and seven years passed. That's the principle of the Constitutional Court. I respect their decisions as final, binding, executive, and I don't want to talk about them. I don't agree. It's not my right. But what principle do we talk about if no one calls them back then, and here I call them for six years and nothing to do. MP questions, initiatives, looking for answers to this one, that way. And when I get into this procedure, then we get a lot of things together, we shut down the Commission for the Examining of Natural Citizens who didn't finish the work, just because someone did, I don't know what way, I'm not the investigative authority, whether it's legal or not, that president to get rid of it the way it was. Well, then let's not finish that work. So I also file criminal charges against a person I know the name and last name of generals, who illegally gave naturalized citizens so-called. BiH citizenship, which would now impose this law, would be legalised immediately. So I do it all. I respect all procedures, and I never get the right answer for anything, nor do I get the right answer, so let's say hello, man, don't bother us with the memos anymore, you're right about anything, and don't send any more. On the contrary, since I am right and they do not want to respect it, then they find a Solomonian solution, and they say nothing of it, waiting for me to call every session of them. That's how this Citizenship Act works. So someone's gonna respect me for how I'm not supposed to do it. I'm on my way. The law on residence, key rights and problems of BiH, if 700 people are registered at the presidency's address. What people? Imaginary? What past? Hello, the postman is looking for me at the address of Pala, Milutin Milanković, the famous scientist who helped everyone, the world. Don't look for me in Calesia, I don't live there. But he has to look for these in the presidency, and there's no one here. How are they gonna find them? So we could in a package that was intensified and realistically solve the parent number, residence, citizenship, and then, of course, everyone would be a little dissatisfied. Well, now someone's gonna pay my respects, so I'm against this citizenship to be recognized as a certain one. And to be clear, well, here we were three or four days ago, the congress came here from a Bošnjak who presents himself as the 'Congrass Diaspora'. Don't let people cloud us with that, it's not the 'Congrass diaspora'. There are no Srbin in that delegation. There are no Hrvat. I am a representative of the Serbian people and I am proud, but I respect the representatives of all peoples, Bošnjak and Hrvat extremely. And I respect, under the supposed signs, that anyone who doesn't respect me, I have the custom of saying "Sjedić-Finci-Finci" and "others," that doesn't give Bog a chance to identify these people, but I respect all the citizens of this country. But it can't just be looked at and received here by Parliament by the diaspora delegation, when I hear on television, people call me. What diaspora? The Bosniak Congress delegation was present without any Srbin or Hrvat. What Diaspora Congress? Is the diaspora divided, us divided? And instead of being in a position to say that the Ministry had a good proposal, it goes to the Single Parent Number Act, it doesn't fit the colleagues. I respect that. But you realize this isn't working for us either. Legalization of many who for no reason got citizenship. And when I filed criminal charges against those who... you know what I got the answer for? Obsolete object. Obsolete object, and people live! How did anything in this country get out of date? And it didn't go out of date for seven years of mine, and I never got a single answer, and I've been looking for them all the time. That's why we're going to have problems like this because we don't want to make a deal with 44 of them. Well, let them say, here, you gentlemen are right about this citizenship. Or at home number, you're right. Or a place to stay. So let's get all three of them together. And when I hear that something in a package hurts my head, because right away I remember that someone in the bag is going to take it away, so there's no package or anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10615	Thank you. I hope that you will deliver these suggestions in writing in the form of conclusions, and in this House every MP is autonomous to receive any delegation in the manner in which it is determined. Dear colleague Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10616	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm listening to all these debates, but I'll tell you how to sublime all this. Far back in '66. For the first time, I went outside my home country, from the state of ex-Yugoslavia, as a gaster in West Germany. Since then, I have lived and worked on three world continents, Asia, Africa, and Europe. And I know very well how all of our people who are there feel. This is because of my dear and esteemed, very dear truly fellow Jovičić. I'll tell you, on the human side, the problem we're thinking about. I live in a small mining town called Kakanj, you all know him. Recently, I sat down with dear longtime friends of my wife, two of whom are very beautiful and dear to our fellow citizens, members of the Serb people. Every word they say brings out grief for the children who have gone, one to America, one to Canada. But it is not a tragedy, it is a tragedy that these grandchildren are no longer Bosanac, nor Hercegovac, nor Srbin, nor Bošnjak, nor Hrvat. They became Kanađanin and Amerikanac. I would only ask you one thing, don't let any mother in BiH cry because their children will never be citizens of the country where they were born again, if you understand what I mean. And this isn't just politics anymore. This is a matter of humanity and human honesty and cheek. And if anyone thinks he's protecting someone this way, he's doing him a bear favor, gentlemen. Don't let us lose any of our citizens, no matter how much effort we have to make and how much we have to give in where we're stubborn, as the famous Bosnian bear, to be honest, to bring our attitudes closer
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10617	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10618	and allow our people to stay and be proud of being born in the country of BiH, even if they never return to it. Their children will return to see where their fathers and mothers were born. Why don't you think so? I always hear other things here, and so few human, honest and honest discussions. Thank you very much. 45
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10619	I thank and conclude the debate. My fellow Members and fellow Members, the following points 6 and 7, I suggest that we consider the package, it is about: Ad. Six. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of BiH, Proposers: MPs Mladen Bosić, Darko Babalj, Borislav Bojić, Aleksandra Pandurević and Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, with the opinion of the Commission for Transport and Communications, Ad. Seven. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Public Television Service of BiH, Proposers: MPs Mladen Bosić, Darko Babalj, Borislav Bojić, Aleksandra Pandurević and Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, with the opinion of the Commission for Transport and Communications The bill's proposals were submitted by 19. 4. In 2012, with an urgent request to be considered. At the 27th session, held on 10th. 5., no urgent or shortened requirements have been accepted, and the proposed legislation is being considered under the ordinary legislative procedure. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinions on the constitutional basis 22. 5. The Commission responsible for the transport and communication of opinions on the principles of the draft law delivered 5. Six. In 2012, and as you've seen, they're negative. I also note that the Directorate for European Integrations of BiH delivered its opinions on 28 March. 5. In 2012. I'm opening a debate on the committee's opinions on both of these laws. Dear colleague Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10621	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would suggest that these two points concerning the service law and the system be joined in the discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10622	Well, that's what I suggested. That's what I suggested.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10623	Here, we accept this and, as you know, the SDS MEPs Club has put in the procedure a clear proposal to amend the way in which BiH public service funding is financed, requiring citizens to free themselves from paying a mandatory TV fee and that public services are financed from the budget, i.e. BHT from the Budget of BiH, RTRS from the Budget of the RS and FTV from the Budget of the Federation of BiH. What led us to launch this initiative? Well, first of all, the public opinion and opinion of the citizens of both entities, without any difference, is that it's not fair for them to finance such a public system. And there are two kinds of citizens. One, whose tax of 7.13 marks is also a burden because they are fighting for a naked life and consider it an additional burden on their existence. Others, who do not have 46 problems, who have large personal incomes, but feel that such a public service should not be financed by citizens, because they do not feel it as a service that works in their interest. Therefore, such a public service does not meet the conditions of being public. He may meet the conditions of being a state or some of the interested and political groups, but to be a service to all citizens, he certainly does not meet, for two reasons. The first reason is that they are not politically neutral so that they can call themselves the Public Service, i.e. work in the interest and under the influence of certain political groups and parties, mostly those in power. Why should those citizens who do not share the views of these political parties pay for something that is against their interest? Why, for example, in the RS, the president of one of the opposition parties, e.g. ... whose party gets 50,000 votes in the election can't participate in two, three or four years or once in some political show on public broadcaster and RTRS? Why should these 50,000 citizens pay a RTV tax and finance such a service if it works directly against their political views and their interests? So, public services, the same situation with the Federation, there is no difference, public services do not represent and work in the interests of all citizens who are asked to finance their work. So I repeat, public services do not meet the basic principle of political neutrality. Another principle that does not meet public services is that they work in the interest of the general good of the community. Public services like this are actually the generator of the BiH crisis. So we have a situation that two public services are publicly fighting and fighting a media war against each other, although they are paid out of their pockets by citizens both. So, two basic conditions to become and be able to bear the name of a public service, these here in BiH do not meet. And that's why citizens shouldn't pay for such a thing. The second reason why we launched this initiative is the anomaly in the distribution of funds from the collected TV tax, the way in which every citizen who pays the fee is financed by 50% of BiH TV and 25% of the entity broadcasters. And it is no secret that these broadcasters have brought themselves into a situation, BHT and federal television with their earlier programmes, that the citizens of the RS accept them as enemy services that work against their interest. And also the citizens of the Federation consider RTRS, the public service of the RS as a service that does not represent them, but works directly against their interests. And this is a situation that is unsustainable to legally force people to finance such a thing that works directly against them. The third reason we launched this initiative... is a different way of charging in the RS and the Federation of BiH. A system of automatic debt sue has been established in the RS. So, some way that it resembles and that citizens see as a sort of hack on their pockets. So you have a situation to prey on a pig's household that lives on, I don't know, three chickens and two pigs, because it didn't pay a TV fee. In the Federation, I guess it's clear to everyone that a good part of the population doesn't pay a TV fee, that it doesn't pay for political, besides these economic and political reasons, because none of those three services feel like their own. And it is no secret that a large part of the Hrvat in the Federation of BiH do not pay the RTV tax. Are there international standards for funding the Public TV Service? We also inquired yesterday on the Round Table, which organised the SDS, we learned from the OSCE representative that there is no standard that would define that public services must be paid or financed through a mandatory tv tax. Therefore, there are different models, there are public services that are directly funded by the state. There are new models that we stand for, among other things, if not for this one then there is a way to make a change to define that tv tax is something to pay, but it's not an obligation. As it is, we heard yesterday a new debate in Finland, as it happens in Poland, who feels this TV system 47 as their own pay tax, who doesn't feel they won't, and the state will provide the funds needed to make that public broadcaster work. And that's even acceptable to us, so you'll see how many citizens feel about this TV system as their own. In order to check what we already knew, we have also organised a public notification about our initiative and asked for support from citizens in the RS and Brcko District, where we have a party infrastructure, to support their signatures with an initiative to abolish the mandatory payment of RTTV fees. The result is this pile of paper right here in front of us. There are 130,000 signatures by the citizens of RS and Brcko District. And right away, let me tell you that 90% of the people who have been asked or who have been suggested to sign this have signed this, and not hiding, giving both the number of phones and offering other services to prove that they are behind this signature. So this is Vox Populi for you, this is what people think of this system of paying the RTV tax, and we expect you as representatives of that people to have in mind that fact that is neither different on a national basis nor between entities. Here you have the signatures of all three people, in Brcko where the mixed environment is all signed
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10624	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10625	This initiative. And the same would be true in the Federation if we were to carry out such an activity by chance. So, here I am going to break up for time, and I'm asking you to keep this situation in mind. This is not against the interest of public service. We expect them first of all to become public service and representatives of all citizens, and then we have nothing against it, and I will be the first to be ready to voluntarily and voluntarily pay a TV fee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10626	Dear colleague, since two laws have been joined and the debate is about it, and you are the promoter, you have time 15 minutes. If you have any more needs, you're free to say so.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10627	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10628	Thank you. The first reported for the discussion, the esteemed second deputy chairman Denis Bećirović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10629	Dear Chairman, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I would first of all like to say that I do not think it is a very good practice for any of us to speak on behalf of all the collectiveities, on behalf of the entire entities, etc. We know that in BiH, 48 of its entities, cantons, municipalities, etc. We have an express pattern of both religious and national and political configuration, etc., so it's hard to accept on this side what everyone thinks. Here are some likely to have organised petitions, etc., received a number of votes for their proposal, however, if others had carried out other petitions, etc., they would probably have collected the same number of petitions, but perhaps more. However, it is a legitimate right and as far as it is concerned, I will not speak any further. However, what I particularly want to point out is the fact that when we talk about these two laws that we have now come together to discuss together, we should first say that we are talking about these laws when we are not done, or we have not applied or implemented the essential provision of the law, and here we are today talking about amendments and additions to that law. What is the essential provision? Well, unfortunately, we haven't formed a public service corporation yet. And in my opinion, that's an essential question. That story must finally end, if it has to, today and in the days to come it needs to be identified precisely why we haven't done it by this moment. The proponent, among other things, states that the current model of funding for public services needs to be changed and that it is replaced with a new model which, among other things, means that they are being financed from BiH's entity budgets and the state budget. In my opinion, that's unacceptable. It would be a transformation, a major transformation, i.e. a transformation from public service to public service. Personally, I think it would endanger independence and public service would lead to a completely different context and into other conditions, which I believe is not the goal of anyone. It is my opinion that these proposals, these two amendments and additions, are not in line with BiH's European movement. When I say that, I mean the next one. In fact, there is a recommendation from the European Commission R96 that among all EU member states including those who have the ambition to one day become members of the EU, including BiH, which is in the Recommendation, as soon as possible, it is required to provide institutional stability of the Public Service with a stable source of funding. This proposal is not in line with that. Also, this proposal does not offer an assessment of the financial resources needed in the future for public service activities, and I do not think that this can be done afterwards. One of the important things, when we talk about this topic, I think that the proposings had to make an effort to deliver us also public service opinions, both entity and state opinions on this matter. This is still a serious thing, and we need a little broader elaborate what such solutions mean, in practice, both for them and for this country. And finally, I would like to say that, without a doubt, when you carefully read these bill proposals and its reasoning, it is clear that this law fundamentally changes the position and structure of the Public TV System in BiH. And that's why I suggest that in the next period, and as far as I can see, there is no majority needed to adopt this proposal, it would be good to focus on what is, in my opinion, the essence at this point, which is the formation of a public corporation that we talked about in the previous years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10630	Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, discussion. Here you go. 49
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10631	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, although Honored counterpart Bećirović has already presented key thesis which is actually content and my discussion, let me just look back at two things in a few sentences. So, the principle of independence, and then the professionality and objectivity or impartiality of public service, which I believe we all stand for here in the House of Representatives, is causally linked to the way in which we finance. According to its definition, there is no public tv service if it has budget financing, because the budget is a matter of the parliamentary majority or the ruling majority. So, it's not the whole parliament, it's the ones that adopt the budget most of the time. And public service: not only must it be in the function of all, therefore, positions and opposition, but of the general public, so also the non-governmental sector and those not in Parliament. So it's the Public Service. And when the laws were passed, it was very carefully composed or designed to play the role of Parliament in relation to public services. As a result, a principle that has been working in BiH for years, the way these services are financed through a RTV subscription, even until then, I said last time that the legislator has even given certain jurisdiction from the domain of the judiciary, when it comes to payment and payment, to the public broadcasters and services. And that is why this system needs to continue to develop, because it best fits the principle of independence, then objectivity and professionalism, or the professionalism of public services. So, the best fit are those principles we're asking for to respect the services in their operation. Advocating for the budget financing of the service means advocating its dependence on the parliamentary majority, either at any level, and I find it a little odd and contradictory to the SDS Club proposal, because I believe they too advocate this principle of independence, independence and professionalism. So to advocate budget financing and this principle, it's a little contrary to me. So that's one thing. The other thing is that I don't think that we in BiH have completed a discussion about public broadcasters and systems in general, I think we should continue where we left off, and that's the implementation of the Law on the TV system and the three laws on services, state and two entities, and we need to set up a fourth legal entity that will unite it all together, and then only when we're done implementing the law will we see where, what we're going to do and how we're going to go on. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10632	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10633	Thank you. I really need to look back at these findings that budget financing threatens independence. Did we now receive recognition that the BiH Court and Prosecutor's Office for the Review of BiH is dependent on the parliamentary majority? From this I draw that conclusion: that through the budget adopted here, the Court and the Prosecutor's Office are dependent on the parliamentary majority. And I'm glad we came to that knowledge. 50 Next, we all know where all service boards are selected. Who do they depend on? From the parliamentary majority? So let's be honest, so we all know what political option is behind which board member he's serving. Third thing, I really want to believe that at this point these services depend on someone's political will, not that they are the voice of the public who pays them. Because if that's the voice of the public, what we hear from one service where all of these 14 and all of RS call us genocide, fascists, criminals, I'm afraid we're going in a completely bad direction. I don't want to believe that's the voice of the Federation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10634	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10635	Well, first of all, I have to say that you, by your intervention, violated the Rules of Procedure when I was discussing, notifying me that the time had elapsed. Article 69(2) states: 'The legislator has the right and obligation to explain the 15-minute bill before the start of the debate." You warned me on time, I shortened my discussion, and when I sat down, you said to me, "Will you use your right?" So I expect you to not count this time in replicas but to allow me to continue the discussion. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10636	I, as I recall, came back to that question, saw my mistake and told you so.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10637	All right, here we go. We'll fix the mistake.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10638	And I don't see any reason why you noticed it that way, because as far as you saw it, I had good intentions to keep talking. I even have a good intention of making it up to you, with replicas, to make it up to you, but if that's the way you want it, there's no problem. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10639	I'm begging you, so I'm going to continue this story. So, the story about the failure of the Public TV Service Corporation was simply for me yesterday on a round table about this topic fell into the water. There was a member of the board of directors who showed and painted a lot of niggers as we see it. Who said that dubiosis is much bigger, that it will only surface what is not now seen about the public service stuff and that the law at all, as it is, did not allow the Corporation to be made and which says, thank Bog, so it was not possible to make the Corporation because the system and the state would be even more difficult. Is this law against the background of European movements? So please, yesterday we were from the OSCE representative, who is in charge of monitoring the media, heard it had nothing to do with European movements. 51 That is a different practice in Europe. That these discussions are being held in many countries. And it is in this parliament to make a decision on how to resolve the financing of the Service. Constantly calling for something against the EU or for something the EU is asking us to do, and protecting it has become pointless. It is not Europe that has standards in all areas. Europe is different and we need to adopt standards in accordance with our needs, which, I'm sure, will not be directed against anyone. You're saying the public service opinion should have been provided. Privately, the directors in charge of these public services are rooting for the adoption of such a law. Do you then say that funding is more unstable than collecting taxes from the people? But publicly, because it's politics and because their mentors are politically asking them to, they're against this proposal of ours. Independence, so do we now have independent public broadcasters? Are they independent of politics? Was it not clear when a journalist spoke, commenting on events and political situations, which party he belonged to and whom he represented there? We all know that. No matter what the citizens pay for that TV. And so, that's exactly why we're looking for a change in the way we pay. When they become politically neutral, when they allow everyone to speak their mind, and the citizens to draw conclusions for themselves, not that they are washing their brains and serving their conclusions, then I will be very happy to pay the tax. And in the end, it's not easy, it's not really hard to guess here whose interests are public service. It can easily be concluded here and from the discussion of individual representatives of political parties. Therefore, we expect that this initiative will ultimately lead to a change of law, not only of the one we have proposed, and pressure from the public to make public services public service in the interests of citizens living here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10640	Thank you. Replication response, honourable MP Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10641	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, for a short time, I did not mention, in any word, either the Court or the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, or any other institution, and I ask that no conclusions be drawn that I did not give the cause in my discussion. It can be personal observations and I can't have anything against it, everyone has the right to their own observations. I think the problem arises because of the fundamental misunderstanding of the legal and real nature of certain institutions in a democratic society. Public service is the institution sui generis. It is neither the authority of the administration nor the authorities of the judicial authority, although I can also talk about how the courts' funding is supposed to be in the future, but the public service is something that is completely special. And I think I've already said enough through a few sentences on examples what I think is the real and legal nature of public services and the overall system in BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10642	Thank you. dom Chairman, Mr. Živković, replica. Here you go. 52
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10643	Thank you. It is more incorrect to say that the budget can control the way or the political control of independence, among other things, courts and prosecutors and others. The fact is that, whether they are financed through TV fees, whether they are financed from the budget, a certain kind of political action has been and a being so far, regardless of who is in power. If you choose a director of television, as a congregation majority, you must have a political influence on it. However, as I have already answered, and in order to be able to discuss it, I am using this replica to ask the promoter if he has consulted and received opinions from the relevant ministries. Did the promoter foresee a way of providing funds in the budgets instead of a TV fee? And does the promoter have some kind of community to give us as an example of where it was done in the way they suggest? Thank you. Dear colleague Mladen Bosić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10644	Well, you see, I would repeat, so there is no attitude and uniform opinion of European countries on how to finance from the budget or from the tax. I have here the opinion of the Council of Europe and the suggestion of media funding. And they say here: whether it's funding from the budget or whether it's about paying a tv fee, it's about providing mechanisms for media independence. So the story is that the media is independent just because citizens are forced by the law to pay taxes is a pointless story. You all know very well that it has nothing to do with it, because it's not at all... comparable to each other size. So, please, is there anything like this in the municipalities? Well, that doesn't matter. Public service needs to work for the whole society. Is the municipality financed by any public media? That's not the point either. So, did the RS government finance RTRS? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] So the RS government pays private media budgets every year for 5 or 10 million marks. Normally, for other reasons. For reasons of influence on these media, which I find unacceptable again. But the public service, which is neutral in all this, it should be paid out of the budget, because it works in the interest of everyone. And don't compare BBC as a public service to public services in BiH, it has nothing to do with that. There every citizen knows why the BBC is working in his interest. From a time when war is, when it represents the interests of its country towards the public to internal political issues, where you can clearly see that there is no cheering for anyone. On our public broadcasters, it's clear to everyone, as soon as you turn on the TV, who it works for and who it cheers for. 53
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10646	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10647	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd take this as a good initiative if I had certain parameters. How much funding should be allocated in the BiH Public Service budget to do so to this BiH Parliament? How long would it take the RS Parliament to single out for RS TV? How many Federation Parliaments for Federal Television? Does anyone have any indicative parameters how much money it takes? That's the money again. Did they predict themselves in the budget, do they force it? This is a force to pay for citizens who don't like some program, some television, but it's so legally regulated. But I repeat, whatever the law would be, if this were adopted from the budget level, we would amnesty these public broadcasters, so to say, however, that state would provide us with money so that we wouldn't fight through marketing, not through the program, not through good shows, let them, what, they'll watch, but they have to pay us. They didn't look, even worse. No Niko should look at us from the RS, but when it's in the budget, BHTV will broadcast what's wrong with her. And we don't interfere with editorial policy this way, although we're completely dissatisfied. Totally. Because there's, at least, research, so let's go in range, I don't know if they hit 10-20%, but let's make 30% wrong, although that's an impossible number, but here's what nobody's looking at. Even though he's looking, he's looking at himself with bitterness to say what they're doing. Whether out of 13,000 or 11401 chairs, a direct transmission goes from Tito, not a single Srbin, the chair is not foreseen. So I'm asking if there's anyone normal in RS who's going to say, people, let's applaud this television for what this is publicly conveying when this is directed against us. Well, he was funded from the budget, privately, I don't know how. But the fact is, secondly, that this wants to reduce the importance of the only broadcaster that operates positively, which is the RS Television, which I am also dissatisfied with. I've been there at least once a month or twice. They haven't called me in four years. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Four years and don't let them call me at all, it doesn't matter. They won't take a statement either, it doesn't matter. But I'm saying something else, so in 2007, I asked for BH television's bankruptcy, not that, right away, to honor me, but to bring it to zero, and then to bring it in clean bills, those three public broadcasters, and let's say, here we go from here now. And no one knows, once we get a loss of 24 million, once 25, this federal debt for marketing 12, so this is what I hear Mr. Ljubić's esteemed opinion which is true, BH television is either not against us or it is.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10649	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10650	I'm sitting, I'm sitting, I've heard, I've seen. 54
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10651	Okay. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10652	Thank you, Your Honor. As for this... that this proposal wants to reduce the importance of the emitter that only positively operates, of course, is meant by RTRS, no, Mr. Jovičić, Bog forbid. RTRS is certainly a very important institution for the entire RS. And we are, I'm going to read you here, I really don't get it, this isn't any inter-coalization misunderstanding, but there seems to be some misunderstandings within the SNSD. I will now read you a statement from the SNSD Executive Secretary and we thought that you might have made some calculations, but I read about it, it seems to me that Mr. Davidović's statement was in an interview with the RTRS director that about 20 million from the budget would need RTRS, that he doesn't mind. It seems to me in the Independent that it was an interview. But, so led by your SNSD initiative, we just formalized what your secretary says, Mr. Rajko Vasić, since he is such an esteemed blogger, and I like to read his blogs because they are very lucid. I'm sorry, I'm going to have to correct a little bit now, but I wouldn't read it the way he wrote it, he said, '10.11.2011. year', since Bosić, the president of the SDS of the Sarajevo-Romanian region, is not telling the truth, I will not quote now, 'I am bringing the original statement with the date I gave to abolish the subscription and create autonomy for RTRS'. I know this isn't gonna fix Bosić, but let's keep it in writing, which wasn't on the Internet and it wasn't. And then in that old statement by Mr Rajko Vasić, who... says, "There is no cure for BHRT, no subscription should be lifted in RS, RTRS financed from the budget and left to the National Assembly." So to avoid debt, I will read only the last paragraph, in which he says, 'the RS must make a decisive step in that television segment, end the unconstitutional phone subscription and save the citizens from harassment and humiliation. The actions of RS TV to finance from the budget, and to leave competence over the selection of managements and editorial structures to the National Assembly." Indeed, this passage of the last I read, written by Mr. Rajko Vasić, stands entirely. It's just that there's a chance that some of the country's forests on the line are calling for the moon, so I'd be a colleague, who's a little confused and doesn't know what to do with this, suggest that the central party, it's best for you, consult.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10653	Thank you. Organisation
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10654	dom Chairman, Mr. Živković, debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10655	Thank you. Let's say we didn't watch those blogs. I don't believe it's on an official SNSD statement, but private blogs of various members or others in the SNSD that perform the function, but let's get back to the topic. 55 The theme is and you know well that the SNSD was not satisfied with this law or with the good intention it was in the state to establish BHRT and that in continuity for years we warned that this intention, a good intention by the RS, was not respected. And we here on several occasions asked for it to be abolished and if the colleagues of the SDS were looking for a way to refer to this law, and one and the other, we would be in favour. If you had or modified a way of applying in which you would have proposed a new way of taking a TV fee in which two accounts would be opened, where the RS would know how many RS citizens are paying, and if it were known how many others are paying, and that the distribution would be made according to the payments, we would be in favour. But the desire to change the system in RS through the BiH system is not acceptable to us. It's not acceptable the way you did it, not consulting the RS ministries, for instance. For all the bills that have been in the parliamentary procedure so far, you have requested the opinion of the RS. I have asked for an opinion, because no one has asked for an opinion from the RS, and I can also share with you, in which the Ministry of Transport, except that it affects the independence of the media, says: 'As the proposed legislative solutions include amendments to the RS RTTV Act, our opinion is that the proposal should have been referred before the parliamentary procedure to obtain the opinion of the RS institutions, and given the fact that the RTRS Act is in the section relating to the payment of the RTV tax subject to the constitutional assessment before the RS Constitutional Court.' On the other hand, you didn't convince us that you could predict a real source of funding in the budget when the tv tax is abolished. Those signatures you collected would have been much bigger if you had suggested, say, in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that health care should not be paid. Our people are so poor that they would suggest anything to give up not to pay only in Banja Luka so many signatures. Don't use that signature on your imagination, because it's not politics, it's politics. When I talked about the examples, I'll tell you, since you didn't want to point out, the Doboi Municipality in which you've been in power since the war until now. And they bought TV three times and still the Doboy Municipality doesn't have television. And every month from Doboj's budget, you pay 28,000 marks for RTV Bijeljina. And every day in Doboj Municipality, all we see is the captain on Bijeljina TV. And that's how the SDS through the budget wants to finance independently. That's the way you want to do it in the RS tomorrow when you think you'll come to power, which you won't be. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, stay out of election campaigns, especially in the BiH Parliament for local elections in RS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10656	Thank you. Dear Representative Azra Hadžiahmetović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10657	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, I applied for the discussion a long time ago, but I felt I couldn't get in line because of the way the debate was being held. That's one thing. And secondly, after this content debate and after this sophisticated transfer of jurisdiction from entity level to state level, which is present in the last hour, because we are talking about the problem of the Public TV service from the RS, or in the RS, at least 90% of the discussion is focused on it, it almost seems to me too much to discuss anything 56, except that I need to perhaps draw attention to two or three things like this more in terms of correcting the wrong quote or the wrong interpretations, etc., which have been heard in the context of... adopting potentially these provisions. First, what Bosić mentioned is that he also called for a Council of Europe resolution that the objectivity of the Public TV system, or service, is not achieved by the very fact that, for example, the public service is financed by the revenues of taxis. But it is also true that objectivity is not achieved by automation if the Service is financed from the budget. So we have a problem here in objectivity, when it comes to the objectivity of information, not because of the way it's financed, but because of something else. Secondly, there was a speech here, among other things, that budgetary funding meant greater objectivity, etc. So if there's anything in a policy mirror like the budget, which is the first sentence in every economic textbook, that the policy mirror budget, at least here we know how much our budget was the mirror of our policy. To cover this with the potentially difficult social situation of citizens, etc., I will remind you that the budget is also financed from citizens, from income, from direct or indirect taxes. So, who pays for budget spending rather than citizens. And we absolutely wouldn't get anything except to find some new modality that would mean a larger item in public consumption. However, what I want, among other things, and in the sense of this opening part of my discussion, is to draw attention, perhaps in terms of the reserves that my colleague Bosić is in a good position to elaborate, to try to get a good elaborate and argument that's been here all day before me, so I don't see Mr. Živković, but here I really appreciate the fact
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10658	Time! AZRA
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10659	: they'll probably put it away. I, the chairman, also have a discussion, I hope.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10660	Well, I know, but they also have replicas behind you, so you'll come up for discussion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10661	Yeah, but here's what I'm going to do very soon, both of you, if that's okay with you. So, to refer to Vox Popula, is it based on a survey that was done only in one entity, I have to say that it also challenges the reserve. That's one thing. And secondly, to call for a survey and I don't know what the survey question is, I've only thought of one good old saying: if you want your computer to take out trash, for example Get the trash into the computer. So what kind of polling question was likely depends on what purpose it was intended to achieve. And here, let me finally mention, given all of these arguments that I mentioned briefly and which have already been made, especially from fellow Bećirović, to mention that really believing in the good intentions of the SDS, or the initiator of changes in legal solutions, I suggest that the next initiative and the next proposals go in the direction or implementation of the legal solutions that exist, possibly considering the problems why the existing laws are not implemented and that we see 57 who is the main culprit of why the reform, whose component and financing of public RTV services, is why the reform stands in the place where it stands? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10662	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Saša Magazinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10663	For the same reason as Professor Hadžiahmetović, so there is no order in normal reporting, so we need to use replicas. And I'll give up the discussion later. A few sessions ago, Ljubić had an initiative we rejected because we said this was not the place to discuss entity broadcasters, that there are entity parliaments for it. Apparently, colleagues from the SDS have found a way to propose a agenda point to be able to discuss entity broadcasters, in this case RTRS, against which I have nothing, but again I say it is not here but in the entity parliament. We can agree or disagree on everything the promoter has been talking about, but I don't see any problem talking about it. However, none of the problems discussed by the proponent in his opening statement is addressed by the suspension of the TV subscription. With that fact in mind, it is clear that it is a party activity that has its own goal, which I would rather tie to a campaign for local elections than to solve public broadcasters' problems and thus treat this debate. Explain the justification of this initiative by signing any number of them, it's a little inconclusive. They asked people, "Do you wish not to pay for something?" Well, of course everyone's gonna sign something they don't want to pay. Here I give, to caricate, a suggestion: ask people if they want to not pay electricity bills in the future, so you'll see that you get an even bigger number of signatures. It's just a question of whether it's real or not. But I really have no problem with this kind of articulation of political views and positioning the political party on a particular issue. However, what I have a problem with is a public call for non-compliance with BiH law, and such activities have been under way during the activities that my colleagues have led to this law which they propose, so when collecting the signatures, they have been shared to doctors where they are called not to pay the subscription, which I find inadmissible. Imagine now if we were to choose between laws that are in force, what we like about what we don't like, so we invite people to respect some laws so they don't respect them. Such activities really have no excuse. And this, suggesting some law, is no problem at all. I'd just like to, and I think it would be more useful, but this law, by entering the procedure, has fallen and we see it. We will, fortunately, have amended our Rules of Procedure so it won't be as long as some of the laws that have mutilated us for months. However, it would be good if our energy, all together, and here we have colleagues from the SDS, tried synergyly to address the problems of the Public TV Service and to solve what is next to us in this Parliament. 58 And finally, we at the SDP Club believe that the TV subscription is one of the tools of financial independence of the Public Service and its abolition. Especially in this way, it is unacceptable for us and we will vote the same way as the Commission, so we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10664	Dear colleague Borislav Bojić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10665	Just a few things, so first of all, when it comes to the legality and legitimacy of what the SDS has proposed, there were never any proposals that say that we would invite someone to disobey the law. On the contrary, we are proposing a law that needs to change relations and the way the RTV tax will be financed. In fact, citizens pay VAT and give many others, from many other budget-gathering taxes, the budget certainly needs to finance, among other things, RTV services. That's the approach we're proposing. On the contrary, we suggest not to be paid, but to be paid more just, far more just. And that everyone, not just, is mostly paid from the RS. Here, look at the percentages, and it would be good if we got information on who pays for it, how much they pay for it, and how they end up being spent. It would be nice and nice to look at these relationships to see how these broadcasters end up being financed. A colleague of Živković, when it comes to health care, is inappropriate to make a parallel between tax and health care contributions. So that, both of us, is nowhere near what health care is all about. On the contrary, be assured that we would not receive signatures for non-payment of contributions. It's about health care contributions, not a health care cab. There is a huge difference between tax and contribution, so I would disagree with you that this could be applied to health care. Next thing you know, this is politics, I wouldn't say. So this is listening to the voice of the public, the question of those who want to make their views known and their position on how to pay the TV fee. If you are building on Rajko Vasić's statements, what counterpart Pandurević said, I can accept it as a fact. I think it's good progress so that you can easily come into a position where your political party becomes at least a little more democratic, you know, in which one of you will say that Rajko Vasić has gone astray after all and did not say what he said, does not stand behind Rajko Vasić's views, so it would be very interesting for me because this would make a new force in the SNSD that would, of course, democratisation additionally or even democratisation the SNSD, which, above all, is not a democratic party to the extent to which it should be. When you talk about the funds allocated by Doboj Municipality, it's incomparable to 20 and a few thousand KM from modest sources from the municipality, it's a lot, of course, but it's a lot more than 400,000 KM from the budget, of course, for that same television that you were talking about. It's not about 400,000. It's about millions of KMs that separate private media from the budget. Therefore, our requirement is that state media, namely, be paid from the budget, not to pay for the private media. Well, in the end, if the principle is established that local budgets and the RS budget can't pay private media, which I think should be, of course, I believe we can get to that position. But what I expected from you is that you will support us working together to open the debate, that is, to organise a roundtable on which we will first and foremost make an argument on what is more useful for all of us, and we are starting from the attitudes that have been heard from the SNSD, after all, set out in this activity. 59
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10666	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10667	In the end, thank you for the weather warning. As for when we come to power, you will certainly not decide but will decide the people, and he will surely support more SDS than you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10668	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10669	Here's especially about this support, but something's not going with that support. Looks like someone else played in this coalition next to the SDA, but, well, we'll see, we'll see. There are three things I want to say, why don't SDS officials stop paying the subscription? Your politics, come on brothers, we'll follow you, is famous. The people that don't pay, they take, 400,000 are the costs of suing citizens who don't pay for a TV subscription, and all SDS officials are paying the subscription neatly. And I hear they're the poorest and the most regular. One ran two days ago to make peace so he wouldn't be sad. And calling on the people not to pay, is not the correct flyers that you share, and what you say at promotional gatherings and what you say in public in front of people, your activist standing by that booth. So that's something, I'm building on Rajko Vasić's politics. So don't, listen, if I supported everything Rajko Vasić said, then where would I go? _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, as it isn't, Rajko Vasić said you were a group of geese in a fog that didn't know the way, and I said it was too harsh a statement, that it wasn't correct. I can't accept that kind of statement. The third thing, at a time of demagogy, is that the RS TV system needs a budget to single out 24 million marks. You have to tell from who. We know how much money he has. You have to say what Mr. Jovičić was saying today. So you need a clear message here and what Mr. Živković said you're taking it from. Are budget money and health care and television, then, Mr. Bojić, that's when they're even? It's taken from the same pile. Anyone who doesn't want absolutely free health care, and here's what we're going to pay out of the budget, and we're going to cancel participations that are the same kind of tax, and we can transfer them to the budget. But we won't, because we need this demagogy populist now for elections that, of course, can't pass. And I think this is your deliberate attempt to stabilize the BHRTV system that lies ahead of bankruptcy and destruction, and you want to stabilise it through the budget. And our condition is that he stabilizes in this way that we said earlier to come. But if you can place them in the budget as some other institution, then we can give them as much money as we give to the others here in the voting machine. 60 So we have to say one thing, it was correct of you to invite citizens to meet their obligation until we sort of legally resolve it differently. Well, then I'd take it. You didn't invite that. If you'd said everyone was executing, but we'd all be working together on another model, wouldn't it be simpler if we were technically paying everything in the budget? So that would be very simple for me: we pay from budgets and television and health care.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10671	Time!
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10672	and everything else. I mean, it's not like that here. I don't think it's correct, with a lot of understanding that they're close, but I think the election's over for you. I think you're doing your best, in general, they're past time for you, you'd better deal with some other antiquities.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10673	Replica, dear colleague Borislav Bojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10674	Of course, I think it's a little easier for some when we start this kind of debate, but here's a good-looking opportunity for us to get a little clear, of course. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] I didn't say "no one," I said "some" just, and if you're in it, that's another thing. Drago, look, please, there's a lot of resources to be found, if you reduce the waste that is present, but it's going to be a special topic, you know. Well, I don't want to open it right now because I think we need to get a little away from all this because it's not useful in this House. And there's wasteland in every place. There's too much of it, and if you just cut it down a little bit, you'd find these assets that I'm talking about right now. And where it all has wastefulness in the RS, it will not be the subject of debate here in this parliament, we will discuss it in the RS. And so we have the space, so the people pay a tax on added value to find the funds they need for the RS TV. And if we'd invited the people to non-payments, don't think you're tricking, that's bullshit. If one of the individuals said something like that, then the SDS never said that law was not to be respected. We are asking for a change in the law that will define a different way of collecting a tv tax, namely not to collect at all, but to pay out of the budget. And the budget is full of people. And this is how the people pay for it. So that's one correct way, correct approach. After all, if there is a will to talk about this topic, it is not a problem for us to suspend this debate this hour, to continue it after local elections, if you think this is about pre-election campaign, but in order to get better solutions. Well, it's pointless for us to be the ones financing, among other things, the same TV BiH. So 50% of the fees we give go to the BH service, and federal TV goes 25%, 25% goes to the RTVRS. And take the percentages of payments in RS, take the percentages of payments in the Federation. It's not fair to the RS, drago, that's the problem. And this part of our clarification, 61 intrinsic relations, is going to be drago's opportunity and we'll see how it ends when it comes to local elections. Now I'm sure I won't anymore because I can't, after all, because this replica, it seems to me, is long. So, on this one, I would stop myself from going any further and not going with some sharp stuff.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10676	Replic or reply to the replica, distinguished colleague Drago Kalabić. Here you go. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10677	Yeah, now you're getting better, now you're better. See, when we're gone, you go to another extreme, but when we fix you, it's better. I'm going to respect that you don't have the right to a replica and I'm going to give up one part of the discussion. That's one. Two, Mr. Bojić, do you think that in the request to withdraw from the BHRTV budget, the service will not ask for the coverage of the debts and that it will not mean three times as much as the current one that is being allocated from the subscription? What do you think they're gonna write off and say, "Give us some church girl"? That's one thing from the budget. So if you're telling this kind of story about the protection of the TV system, I think you're destroying the RS's RT system. But okay, that's one thing. The second thing, today and in the last session of Parliament, was 20 legislative proposals. Why did you just foot this booth in the streets? Why didn't you put a stand in Banja Luka for the customs tariff this morning and ask if they were citizens for customs tariffs?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10678	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10679	No businessmen, they're not citizens. When we talk about booths, it's for all citizens. And you ended this for the tariff in four eyes. So you have my signature on the bill when you complete it like you just said, just to say in the budget where you take the money from. But it's populist to say, don't pay the subscription, but we don't know where it's coming from. You have to write there then, because all the budgets are so tight that you have to say precisely who you're taking from: health care, police, MPs, Parliament, anyone. When you do that and we find consent, you have my signature on that proposal. You have my signature on that proposal. Here's what I'm saying publicly, but when he's complete. I agree, but I would also support the customs tariff this morning that you and those with whom you have agreed that you have said that some of the money obtained by changing customs tariffs will be directed for television. And that's where the customs tariff hides waste, too. And I agree on this subject is not the place, but on the other completely about wastefulness. You have my support, then, but to be complete. Of these 62 we take, we give these, not to finance the BH service through a safe source of funding like the budget, because we didn't agree on that.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10680	Thank you. Comrade Bosić, you've had three replicas, do you have anyone in the SDS?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10681	No microphone turned on
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10682	But okay, here, here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10683	So, it's about the budget stories. So we suggested where to finance it because it's being established when the budget's being set up. I don't know if you've read our proposal. The proposal is to apply from 1 January of next year and to include these costs in the following budgets. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, no, we can't say from this or that right now. You know how to do it, and it's no problem at all. So, don't try to tell us that we've been trying to get the people not to pay the tv tax. That's not true. That's just not true. We're asking to change the law because citizens are asking for it and that's, and let's be clear, it's 50 million marks for all three broadcasters that they're now spending on the tv tax. Of those 50 million, 25 million are paid to BHT and a half -- I don't know, I'm saying flat-rates, not in a million, as they would say, 12 or 15 -- 12.5 million on RTRS and federal television. So you think the problem is finding these funds in these budgets by agreeing to save the joints? Is it not better to free this poor layer of the population from this burden, which is not enormous, but for them poverty means a lot. Well, first of all, we should have talked about poverty here in BiH, and then come up with these topics. You don't think it's hard for people to single out these 7.13 marks? People who have, I don't know, minimum pensions and lowest incomes? But here, this is not the goal, it's going to be time to talk about poverty and the reasons for poverty and the election campaign. This isn't part of the election campaign, you'll see what a pre-election campaign looks like. The election's in four months. And please, in the end, we propose a conclusion on this agenda point, which will mean opening a wide debate, both in entities and in BiH at all levels, on the functioning of public services and on how they are financed. And here we are asking for the support of all of you, and everyone said, from BHRT board members to the debaters here, that the system isn't working properly, that the broadcasters aren't working properly. Let this be an initiative that will ultimately lead to changes that will be fairer for citizens and entities and BiH as a whole. Thank you. 63
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10685	Thank you. dom Chairman, Mr. Živković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10686	Your last sentence has convinced me that this is a pre-election campaign of the SDS, because the same proposal, or conclusion that you propose, was on the Joint College that Mr Ljubić proposed and your member of the College did not want to discuss at the joint session of Parliament, as it concerns entity parliaments... And you're proposing to pick up a few political points here in connection with the election campaign. Your member didn't want to go to the Joint College to discuss it, you're here to suggest we discuss it. What are we talking about? We're also talking about an unconform performance here, you didn't ask our hand to propose these laws here. And that in the Platform on Consensual Action stressed that we need to work, not to talk about certain votes here. And we'll discuss it with the SDS. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Of course we'll discuss it. I mean, I don't agree with the RS government paying other services, but there's nothing you can say about Doboj's example of how you think you're working on a policy about the media. Dobby's an obvious example of how SDS thinks he's doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10688	Thank you. Dear Representative Boško Tomić, replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10689	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, and I'll just rephrase it for a little bit, if we're discussing how to finance BHT because we're only in charge of it, then we could discuss whether we're going to do it one way or another through a subscription or we're going out of the budget. It seems to me if we decide to go out of the budget that then the public will have the impression that we are the ones who took in their BHRT property and thus finance it and profile their views. For these reasons, I haven't gotten enough convictions that non-payment of tv is a tax solution for a better program to broadcast to us. I don't want to talk about federal television here at all, about his editorial policy, I think it's the jurisdiction of the entity parliamentary parliaments. But I have to tell you about the BHRTV service. Here at this BHRTV service we are completely dissatisfied. Of which, we had a report that we did not discuss, in which only 64 18% of Srbin were employed, 14.2% of Hrvat and 56.3% of Bošnjak and 11.2% of others. I'm glad I've had enough of those others, but I'm not in proportion to the percentage of the population living in these areas. So we're completely dissatisfied, just like this. And if we don't talk, he says, 'In the field of television production, besides regular shows, more important projects can be singled out in 2011', then Melodi Mostar, then Bihaćki festival, then Sarajevo Film, and Dani Matice Hrvatska, then Sarajevo... Philharmonic, then Jajce Festival, then Ijvatovica, and Neum Festival. Well, not a single project from the RS, and it's funded by 50% of the RS subscription. We're completely dissatisfied with BHT. And if we need to talk about it, then we're going to talk about abolishing the subscription in such a way, and that the editorial policy, especially the editorial policy of the Federal and Television RS, should be discussed by parliaments. And the way of funding, it seems to me that this one is more acceptable, because then the allocation of funds from the budget would be under direct influence. And as for hosting, I think the televisions are pretty balanced, and here I am as an MP, I've never had a chance to visit on any of the TVs, and those who say they're a little more often in the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10690	Dear First Deputy Božo Ljubić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10691	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, listening to these discussions today, especially the way public TV services are painted with dark tones, then I wonder who didn't support my initiative here when I suggested discussing the work and functioning of public TV services. On the other hand, at the Joint College, when we discussed the conclusions of the House of Representatives and the House of Peoples, which we brought here to a large majority of votes and in one and other homes to discuss public TV services, members of the Koelgi, including members of the College of the Party from which Mr Bosić is chaired, were not to accept such an initiative. Therefore, however, I am expressing recognition to the members of the SDS in the manner and energy they represent and defend these proposals of the law, and they probably knew before they were put into this procedure, especially after the decisions of the competent commission, that they had no chance of being accepted. I also agree with those colleagues who claim that the dependence or independence of electronic media is not directly related to their funding or even ownership, because it is known here in BiH that the most dependent media is actually the public media, and in fact that core of professionalism and independence at this point can be seen mainly in some private media. However, on the basis of this debate, especially based on these polemics of parties coming from the RS, I have tried, in a way, to penetrate the motif of the promoter and it seems to me, in fact, that the main motive for RTRS funding is to switch to the budget so that the government cannot finance private media, because there is no money enough for both. So, if that's it, I think that's a very rational motive. However, to support this claim that the independence and independence of the media is certainly not directly linked to funding and that the claim that inevitably the media placed on budget financing, budgets at entity or state level will be under parliamentary majority control is actually an example in the Federation. In the Federation, therefore, for five, six years, the Public TV service was under the control of the opposition. Therefore, that claim does not stand. We always, in fact, argue that if we wanted to sanction or in some way existing conditions, then it would not be appropriate even for the media to put on budget financing but rather for financing certain parties or even informal groups or factions in 65 parties. So that's when we bring things down to absurdity, and absurd seems to fit reality in this country. However, what I was against at the Committee to support the principles of this law is, in fact, if we put funding on the budgets, we, by definition, hand over the media to actually those who create the budget and adopt it, and in this way we're actually giving up the opportunity to get independent public media, which, of course, should be a tendency for all of us. And of course, in the end, I would like to say, this entire TV system, in my opinion, needs one root reform from different aspects because it has proved to be actually inconclusive, non-functional, unacceptable, and it is not unknown that he has put an entire nation constitutionally in BiH on the verge of this process. So it is known, that in this home, in the House of Peoples, in the Constitutional Court, all representatives of the Hrvat voted against this TV system and services like this, and that didn't help. Finally, I would like to point out that before these laws are proposed here, there are laws that need to be adopted by Parliament's decisions in the past term and concerning channels in Croatian. This is what remains ahead of us to adopt the priority and perhaps this could be a reason to do... one broader procedure in reforming public TV services, or the entire system, in a way that it is acceptable to everyone in BiH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10692	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10693	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see now that half of SNSD is for this proposal, half is not, well, we'll see about the vote. Anyway, I'd be begging if we weren't really changing here, not making thesis replacements. Mr. Magazinović, you mentioned RTRS. There's the National Assembly of the RS, there's a report on RTRS' work, we have our MPs' club there, and these MPs tell us everything they have on RTRS, and we don't hesitate to say everything we have on RTRS. Unfortunately, we can only talk about the subscription situation, and we can only talk about those RTRS in this place, we can't talk about it in the National Sense of the Republic of Slovenia, because the subscription is governed by the Law on the Public TV System. So many gentlemen. But if I were to change the thesis, Mr. Živković, as you just did before, I could draw the conclusion that out of this opposition of yours you don't mind from that monthly part that you single out both the RTRS and the Federal TV that makes specials and hundreds of shows about your party boss, where he calls it names that I really don't want to repeat. I don't share Mr. Dodik's political opinions and I resent him a lot, but I appreciate that the president of the RS is and I find it extremely difficult to pay someone who makes such contributions to the RS right. Not to mention that special from January 9th. Do we need to talk about that scandal in Dobrovoljska when they brought on those mothers, murderers and hooligans when they went out, and they were Scandicated, so they brought them to the studio faces on the warrants at night? 66 Forgive me, as a citizen of the RS, it is extremely difficult for the part I pay to go to such a service. Let them pay from the Federation's budget so they can call us whatever they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10694	Thank you. dom Chairman, Mr. Živković, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10695	Well, here, in my performances, I'm trying not to go personally to any MPs, so I don't think that's the style, so I'm not suggesting that you practice that style, but I think it's better to talk about politics. And don't you SDS defend us at SNSD, or talk half of us thinks like this, half of it, because you can't get together and say what you think, especially in the vote we can see it. On the other hand, I want to tell you that the proposal for a conclusion that you have made here is not in line with Article 114. The Rules of Procedure and that you should rephrase it. He implies that the first reading must pass this law, so that after that we can open a public debate. See, in particular, Article 114(2), which speaks of the opening of a public debate after the first reading. Well, then if you're prefabricating it in a way that you want to make some kind of circle of people who talk about it, like you did yesterday, we're not against it. We weren't at the Joint College, which is why we're surprised by your suggestions. Anyway, I think you missed the target in the way these laws were proposed, that we're going to talk about what you're proposing to change the percentages of distribution in the law, where we think the RS has been abolished. Our policy is a policy of clear accounts, in which we want to respect it to the end. If you'd invited us here, we'd have allies in us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10696	Thank you. Replica or business intervention, Borislav Bojić.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10697	Business intervention has an advantage. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10698	The Rules of Procedure, Article 114, and it is as you have said, but there is also practice in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly when entering or before entering into the debate of the laws itself, this kind of approach that we have proposed can be organised. And ultimately, it's not this, so the content as you presented it, it's not like that, so I ask you to agree on that. I think we understand each other.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10699	Are you done? Yes, it is. 67
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10700	Yeah, I'm done. It's not a debate about the law, to be clear, it's not a debate about the law, this is the conclusion we have proposed in this discussion, so. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10701	Wait a minute, please, let me, if I wasn't clear enough, I went out there and I spoke as an MP, I didn't interpret the Rules of Procedure, I was talking about your conclusion in a way that I don't think he can go through because of that and that. Whether we should interpret the Rules of Procedure or not, that's what this Parliament will say. College of the House of Representatives interprets Rules of Procedure. If he cannot agree, Parliament interprets the Rules of Procedure. I was talking about your opinion of the Rules of Procedure, and I think what we wanted to clarify is now being clarified. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10702	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and fellow representatives, guests, the debate so far reminds me mostly of that sequence when the conflicts in Slovenia started up, so that TV commentator came to that JNA soldier and asked him 'what's going on', and he said 'there it looks like those who break up and we don't give them'. And to me here, it looks like some would, some are for removing these real systems and services, and some would defend them. And here is the proposal for these laws on a single question, I will say this, dominantly so after it is passed on to different items, articles of the law that say: "Every household and legal person in the territory of BiH who owns the radio and television receiver are obliged to pay a monthly fee for the possession of that receiver." And I hear dissatisfaction with the program, the content, the editorial concepts, etc., and I'm not satisfied either, right away, but it's not a topic. As this structure exists, let me put it this way, the public TV system and public TV service has already been around for six, seven years, and it seems to me that I haven't heard anyone defend it well, so I haven't heard anyone defend it, but more like the flat, principled nature, it wouldn't be because, well, then there's a story about what should be both systems and services. And now that we don't have it, it's not a problem, but I'm not going into that debate. I'll stick to this article and what the bill is. This article introduced a tax, so now the linguists should translate it a little bit into what it means. Is that tax? Is it tax? Look, so now I'm gonna translate, but I'm not a good linguist, because for me this is a tax on the possession of transistors and radios and television receivers. And now there's somewhere in the village where there's no road, no water, no electricity, etc. But there's a transistor man, and this law assumes that he has a transistor, doesn't assume there's no water, no power, but assumes he has a transistor. And then he introduced his property tax. So this is a property tax. And the right to charge that tax did not give tax administrations, inspections, institutions, but gave television, radio-television houses. Radio-television houses, so he gave them the right, and if someone doesn't pay them that tax then they're suing him, there's a fine if you don't pay the tax. And now look at our consistency – we have introduced a tax, no matter what that tax is, on the property of radio or television 68 receivers, even if it was a transistor, but we have not introduced a tax on luxury cars, on luxury yachts, on luxurious miracles, on which we do not have a tax on property, at least such a law, this Parliament, this Parliamentary Assembly, in the state, does not exist. I know, if we tried, here I might be testing sometimes just to see a little relationship, how we behave, to propose a law here in this House, these are direct taxes, we've passed a law on indirect taxes, so let me propose one law on direct taxes. And I know it's in the jurisdiction of entities, and cantons, and even municipalities, because everyone has the right to take from the people, we've assured everyone that they have the right. And we're all talking again about reducing public spending, and on all sides, so no one can add any more of the sides we take. And when the ordinary world says then he says - I pay, the ones who pay, I pay the subscription, and the poor doesn't know that it's not a subscription, so because we cheated on them, and we're saying that - a subscription for the program. If the subscription is for the program, we have developed a system of cable television in BiH, at least here in the space where I come from, and it's interesting: the subscription for cable television is twice as expensive as this fee, this tax on the possession of a broadcaster. And I talked to people who analyze it, have no charge problems at all, have no charge problems. So... there's no state behind them, so there's no state behind them, they don't have the right to punish anyone, they don't have any coercion, they have incasantes, or you go where their headquarters is and pay and, mostly, they have a 90% charge. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Let them have scissors, I agree. What's the part and what are we supposed to get for this tax that we pay on the possession of the receiver, since we're a little intertwined here? We should've gotten a lot of those favors. When we speak political segment, segment of political emissions, only one part of these services, just one small fraction of those services. Where are the programs of these services, where are the educational programs, where are the cultural and scientific programs? I don't want to talk about information. And now I'm watching, because I have cable TV, I watch commercial television, and I have remote television, and I can watch public broadcasters, but I watch these because they give me more information and because their information is ten times more objective. And I, as a citizen, have no influence whatsoever that the public income that is created to be said – okay, according to the ratings, you can take the winters according to ratings, so let the public funds be allocated according to the view. Because you, you can see, and it's mostly preceded by public broadcasters, each on their teletext page, and often in information shows, they publish and compete who's the most visible. And now depending on who you're looking at the emitter, he's the most visible, so it's always the first one, the second one, and I get it now, or I'm totally atypical, because I'm the most looking at those that are commercial. And whoever I'm talking to, if he's seen any of the public broadcasters, no one can tell me, looks like no one's looking, at least the ones I'm hanging out with, the ones I have a chance to see. On the other hand, I have no opportunity to achieve my public interest, provide through those who provide me with this service, which is called objective information, through those who provide me with a service through an educational programme, through those who provide me with a service through a cultural and scientific programme, through those who act in all possible ways more correct, objectively, however you wish. And these public broadcasters of ours, except that they're incorrect to those who pay taxes on the possession of a radio and television receiver, they're incorrect to this, and we're incorrect to commercial televisions, radio televisions, because we gave them guaranteed income, we don't give these 69 guaranteed revenue. But we didn't limit these, we even invite them out of here, I heard from my fellow MPs that they compete in marketing with... where there are these independent public services, it's forbidden. So there must be commercial television. So here we have the key thing, I'm saying this with one grudge and a proprietor. If you had explained this bill as a need to abolish one inappropriate tax, meaning one inappropriate tax that we have introduced to citizens, I absolutely support it, because this is an inappropriate tax. We're in the XXI. For centuries, we charge people taxes because they have a radio and a television receiver, point, that's what this law says. If anyone thinks they should, let them say it's a subscription, so we know what it's about. We deceive citizens with these legal solutions, cheat all citizens in this country and all ethnicities in this country, however anyone experiences, and again what we have the opportunity to hear, I agree with my colleague Magazinović, if we, the people least like to pay taxes, and not just this one but any other tax, but especially when the tax is pointless. Well, I'll think about it more, I have to say, for reasons, but in principle I support the proposal that this inappropriate tax be abolished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10704	Thank you. Dear colleague Ismet Dervoz. We are talking about the Commission's negative opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10705	Thank you for reminding me, Mr. Chairman. I believe you could have used that reminder in the last two hours for all the debaters who were here. So don't worry, I signed up for the line just to make myself say very passionately and briefly what I certainly know a lot more about than all these things that you didn't remind me of the Commission's conclusions that we're discussing. First of all, thank Mr. Lozančić, he read the exact wording. We pay the tv fee for the use of radiotelevision receivers, i.e. the use of resources belonging to the state. As it would say, the state is funding public broadcasters because it has given them the use of its resources that they can use and charge from viewers and users of the tax. Well, that's what I see. Well then the state doesn't have to say directly – we gave you the money, but we gave it to you, and then someone out there probably thinks it should be under some influence and that that influence should be seen and heard. Are we going to have different pictures and tones on TV programs then if we move on to the funding proposed by colleagues from the SDS? I don't think we'll have any different. This is a matter of professionality, and this is a matter in which in the political discourse we in BiH dare to influence the media, which is a practice that is not only in BiH, a practice that you can more beautiful or slightly less beautiful, visible or slightly less visible, find in many, conditionally speaking, more advanced and democratic countries in Europe and the world. The impact on the media is dear to everyone: your character and the work on television, if you are not there, say, you are nowhere, so that this influence is seen and heard, will be seen and heard. 70 What is said about the Corporation, I would just like to remind myself that the law should be respected, in order to show that this TV system has not completed its reform and that so many things do not work there. But the fact that we don't have a korporacija didn't prevent the board of directors of the system from appointing the director of the Corporation and the corporate coordinator who receive salaries regularly for years because they co-ordinate the non-existent Corporation. That's not what we're talking about. Also, nobody's talking about that same board of directors, yesterday we had a member on the round table, who was organised by colleagues and who he didn't attend except me, respected colleagues and colleagues. So, a member of the Management Board whose mandate has been up for three years and who has already been deeply infiltrated in this whole situation dares to tell us why there can't be a Corporation. Because, among other things, he created that atmosphere in which it is impossible to establish it. The whole problem stems from unprofessionalism, and this from the unprofessional management that allows such programs to be seen and heard, does not take into account what viewers must get from public broadcasters, listeners, does not take into account the decisions of the Parliamentary Assembly and sits well outside the mandate and do whatever they want. And I am finishing, Mr. Chairman, the following: I think the solution is to remind the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly that it asked the Council of Ministers to implement the House's conclusion as soon as possible, adopted at the 20th session, held on 2nd. 2. In 2012, which reads: "The Council of Ministers is in charge of preparing and delivering the parliamentary procedure for amending and supplementing the Law on Communications and the Law on the Public TV System of BiH." And here we have a chance to do everything we have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10706	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Niko Lozančić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10707	It's more of a correction to an incorrect quote. I didn't say it at any point, I was careful not to say it, I didn't mention it was a tax on the use of tv receivers. I'm just insisting on the notion that's in this law, which I think is radical, to own... which is mildly connected to neither the program nor anything else.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10708	Thank you. Dear colleague Drago Kalabić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10709	Thank you, Chairman. Here, given that I had two replicas, I need to say a few more things this way, and especially now in the end, when things are a little clearer to me after some discussions. First 71 I'll say, of course, that the SNSD Club votes uniquely always and in all situations on all important issues, and so it will be now. So, don't doubt it, and we've shown it many times when it comes to these things. When this relationship of colleague Pandurević to our president, I am glad to hear it, it is a sign that he will be a long president and she will long respect his character and actions, and that is good. It's not a dispute, you see one thing, we respect the opposition action of everyone in RS and, of course, I don't think this will disrupt SDS and SNSD relations. It is our only desire that this happens in Parliament of the RS, when it comes to these things, because if we do not have a good opposition there, of course it will not be good for the RS either, and I think we understand that. Here we had a little trip about these things. I am saying this for reasons because it is very important to us, it is one of the key institutions in the RS, and we are not thinking of anything or allowing it to be broken in any way, and perhaps sometimes we show additional anxiety and fear of some solutions that could lead to that institution. I'm not talking about editorial politics, I'm not talking about people on TV, I'm talking about an institution. However, I said that after my discussion, my colleague Pandurević is now more clear to me. And I'm already thinking about joining up. I understand that the idea of the SDS is not to make up these others, that through this bill the law screws up FTV and state TV. If that's the point, I could already think about it. After this discussion, I understood the point. So let's not give them any more money. And so, well, now that you've thrown some booth out and written it down, I think, for Bog's sake, I'd be in line. Because, you know, in Prnjavor, the one who yells that the people don't pay, there's, you know, there's supposed to explain to them that that's the goal and don't be afraid to write it: are you citizens to stop funding FTV and BHRTV service? Put it on, big booth and there you won't be able to get anywhere from a lot of all parties and all the members and I don't know who else. If that's the goal of not getting these things together, to get this through, if that's possible, I'm thinking of joining you. Because as you respect the ideas and the character and the work of our president, in this building, the SDS has had several virtual things, over the past years and dozens of years. And this is one of those things and I welcome it and I'm just thinking about how to make it happen without being called to lawlessness, so there's no calling for something that... let's not let them get away with it without getting away with it. Here's what we're gonna think about. Now I'm getting clearer. Now I know who this is against. Now, how do you explain it down there to people? Now, that's what we're going to do, we're going to rewrite it on those stands, and the inscriptions, and maybe even we're going to subdue one side of the booth, if we agree on a name, put one of those legs on, that's how it is. Now, after this discussion, things are much, much clearer to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10710	Dear colleague Dervoz, business intervention. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10711	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to ask you to pay attention to the Commission's conclusions.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10712	And what I let you guys talk a little longer, it's not, is it? 72
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10713	Thank you very much. I'm running with respect for what I just did, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10714	All right, all right. Darko Babalj, come in. Replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10715	And what I'm gonna do, so do I. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, then let me thank you and that I'm glad you're visiting our booths, to realize that we know that it's as important to you as the RS TV, as it is to us, and to thank Mr. Boško Tomić for making us look great, and you're on the verge of understanding us, and I'm not going to do this anymore. So I'll appreciate this so you don't have a replica.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10717	Replica, dear colleague Lazar Prodanović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10718	So it wouldn't be a mistake what it is... isn't a replica to the club president, so I wanted to supplement it for the public. The fact is that citizens from RS who pay for RTTV's subscription, so they pay for a single account totaling that income, and out of that amount, the total of one and the other revenues, RS belongs to 25%. So our goal is that, it's not, it's not like that. I'll put it in a picture. Last year, 9 million and 300 were collected in RS for the possession of tv receivers, and in the Federation about 14 million. In this ratio, it is evident that we do not finance FTV and BHTV and that from that amount we get, out of the total amount, that part of the funds. So we would advocate that this ratio be even more favourable in favour of entity public tv services. That's it.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10719	Thank you. Replica, Boško Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10720	I'm very sorry that my esteemed colleague Darko Babalj didn't get me at all. But here's what we can do. The job... for which we are in charge in Parliament is BiH and the overall system and service, I repeat again, we are against the fact that through the amendments to the Finance Act can be influenced by media houses. I have also expressed my view and the view that we are dissatisfied with BHT, that I do not want to make any specific comments on FTV, we have many objections, but it is ours to discuss TVRS in Parliament, or in the National Assembly of RS, and that we are dissatisfied with the distribution of funds, but not in any way in the way that 73 will abolish the law with which the funds will be given, so that we can influence the media and in the way that individuals think. I'm sorry if they didn't get me, but what can I do?
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10721	Darko Babalj, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10722	Mr. prodadnović, you've got it all figured out and understood, but what you probably don't know is that... in RS there's a Criminal Law or, if you don't pay a RTD tax, the law of execution, you answer in court and you get convicted, you're being seized of your property. The law does not exist in the Federation of BiH. Yes, I, no, no, there is no law. But no one was prosecuted in the Federation. Well, it's a matter of work, so they have some legal holes. And so again when we get back to this thing, we come to the conclusion that TV RS is carrying the biggest burden, i.e. the citizens of the RS on the payment of the TV tax.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10723	Dear colleague Lazar Prodanović, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10724	You see, I think I really appreciate this enthusiasm of yours, but it's huge enthusiasm. But I have to be honest with you that it's just enthusiasm that can serve for marketing purposes that we've overcome in political action, at least 10 years ago. No Niko will listen to you pay the fine without paying the tax on the possession of the TRV, the subscribers. And secondly, you can never prove to me that funding from the labour budget of any public service is more independent than paying the citizens of BiH or RS, or both entities in BiH and, therefore, it is not convincing, this political marketing stunt I learned when I decided 40 years ago to deal with politics. But it's very short, 40 years and more.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10725	Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10726	When I first got there, what time did it stop? Put it back, I didn't start, put it back. I can't, and you'll keep it up for me, okay? So when I first spoke, no one answered if there was any emitter that nobody ever paid for it, not from the budget, not from the subscription, not from the fees, I don't know how, and that they're doing it and that they're broadcasting the program. Is there anywhere in the world? No, somebody's got to pay for them. And this, dear counterpart Babalj, has changed a little bit of order because the way you propose this is, you just want to lift the TVRS, because you think it is the main pillar of maintaining this government in RS, and then you transferred the field from that entity to BiH level, which is not appropriate. It would be more logical if you said in the proposal, TVRS, as you claim it, there's a ruling party, so it broadcasts, so let's pay, get along, so they'll find, when they find all the solutions, it's a capable party, they have the capacity, they'll find a way, but how do we get these, under the supposed signs, heads, which are against us. You didn't suggest anything here. Well, then I support my colleague Boško, not driving me for having to go back with him because he's really right, here should be the key to this Parliament's debate – BHTV1. The jurisdiction of the TVRS, already two 74 times, has been spoken by the parliament of the RS and will find a solution there. The responsibility of TVFBiH is the Federation Parliament. If I were to talk about dissatisfaction and satisfaction, well, believe me, I'm the only one, here's the Srbin, all of whom are almost Srbin, these two services, the most I watch is FTV and BHT1. Why? So I can criticize them. How am I gonna criticize something if I don't watch? Well, these no one, everyone who criticises these emitters, is not watching at all. And I was just asking around, and I'm looking at them the most because I'm gonna come here and talk about them, and I haven't seen the shows. I'm looking at everyone to know what they're broadcasting. And I know all where they broadcast against RS and Srbin, that's a fact. So we completely changed the thesis, so this came up in the procedure in thought and it ended up like this, and that's what it was -- we went with nothing to finally get something and there's nothing in the end, and then that conclusion from the people -- the proposal of the low relationship. Because they won't get any support and we're back to square one. There is no proposal here that will be supported if it is not compatible with everyone. And today, don't let anyone in the media accidentally announce, the division of the large SNSD and the SDS in the BiH Parliament, it's not. No, I'm asking you for coffee.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10727	Thank you. A fellow Bojić has a discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10728	I thank you, but to avoid having a discussion right now, and I have the right to discuss, I will ask you for a brief break, given that there is a need for clarifications on issues that have been raised, and we no longer have the opportunity for replicas, so that we will ask for a... 15-minute break, so that we and some of us who are not very clear about our approach all this together, and I think we will be able to clarify that on a break. So, a break on behalf of the SDS Club of 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10729	And coalition partners, that's a good, 15-minute break. [[PAUZA]] Comrades and fellow MPs, please take your seats, 15 minutes have passed. The SDS MPs' club asked for a break. Do you need to explain the break? You don't. Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to the 8th point of the agenda: Ad. 8. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties, Proposers: MPs Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović and Niko Lozančić, with the Opinion of the Constitutional Commission 75 Proposed MPs Nermina Zaimović-Zaimović-Uzunović and Niko Lozančić submitted the bill to parliamentary procedure 18. 5. Constitutional Commission Opinion on constitutional basis of the bill delivered 6. Six and that's negative. The Commission for Finance and Budgets submitted a letter in 6.6.2 informing the House that it had not discussed the draft law because the Constitutional Legal Commission found that the draft law did not comply with the BiH Constitution and the legal system. I'm opening a debate on the Constitutional Commission's opinion. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10731	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. So, you have received a report from the Constitutional Commission, it is that the text of this law is not in line with the Single Rules, and we, as the Commission, have decided to respect, therefore, what is prescribed in the Rules of Procedure, which is that, apart from the Constitution, the law must also be in line with the legal system. The only rules are part of BiH's legal system, this law is not in line and therefore a negative report. And prepare the text of the law that will be in accordance with that. So much, thank you, I suggest that a negative Commission report be supported.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10732	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10733	Thank you very much, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, here are the media, the public service is gone, and now we can talk with peace. They're all taken, everyone's gonna see each other tonight, there's no discrimination or neglect. Let's get on with this other story. You are aware that the Interresor Working Group has finished its work, however, the Interresor Working Group has had a mandate to prepare a proposal for amendments to the electoral law, the Law on the financing of political parties and the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions. The Interresor Working Group has done the job, however, the materials placed in the parliamentary procedure regarding... amendments and additions to the Law on the financing of political parties and also amendments and additions to the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's institutions are not harmonised, as the chairman of the Constitutional Legal Commission said, violates the legal system, i.e. the Single Rules for documenting. With that in mind, we tried to find out, I tried to find a solution with my colleague Lozančić as legislators of this law. There have been several ways: either to refer it to the parliamentary procedure on its own, as we amend and refer it as a law, or to return it to the Interresor Group, or to return it to the Council of Ministers, and we have, in order not to fail this work of the Interresor Working Group, to have a positive outcome, we have agreed to offer a conclusion, a proposal for a conclusion that reads: 'Because it is established that the text of amendments and amendments to the Law on the financing of political parties and amendments to the Law on conflict of interest that will come, which is in preparation for the next session, 76 contain a greater volume of amendments than the allowed Single Rules for the establishment of legal provisions in BiH institutions, is required by the Interresor Working Group to prepare for the work of amendments and addition of the election law of BiH, the Law on the financing of political parties and the Law on the conflict of interest in BiH institutions to reflect the same way. I ask you to accept this conclusion.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10734	The word has the chairman of Milorad Živković's House of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10735	Thank you. I would like to say as a member of the Interresor Working Group and as a member of the College who discussed and about this one law that you mentioned, namely, in the Interresor Working Group there were two draft laws, a bill that came from the Ministry of Justice, from Mr. Čolak, who was an authorised promoter in front of the Interresor Working Group, and me as a member of the Interresor Working Group, who I proposed my law. None of the other laws received adequate support and could go to the creation of a new law because it was then only possible to access amendments and amendments to the existing law and to amend the existing law. Niko one informed the members of the Interresor Working Group when the laws were laid down to sign that he had crossed 50% of the amendment. I think it is a mistake and the chairman of the Interresor Working Group that he did not warn along with the others who prepared the text of the law, the proposings, who only put their signature on – that the rule was broken. So it happened with the Law of Conflict of Interest that I put my signature on, but in the College I decided to return it to the Interressor Working Group that according to this conclusion as, here I hope it will be adopted, it is proposed that the Interresor Group will once again meet to determine only that the rules have been broken and that you will get, hopefully, the same drafts of the law, only there will be no amendments and additions to the law but there will be a law as to... That's more, I say, a formal thing, but here's to satisfy the formal thing, I think that's the way we can do it. Thank you. Thank you. Niko one ever checked in again. Moving to the 9th point of the agenda: Ad. Nine. Report on the implementation of the law in charge of the Central Election Commission for 2011, applicant: Central Election Commission BiH, material number: 01,02-50-19-577/12, of 30. 4. 2012 77 In accordance with Article 2.9.15. BiH Election Law, Central Election Commission submitted Report 30. 4. In 2012, the responsible Joint Committee on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics is 23. 5. delivered Opinion on the Report in the section relating to the implementation of the Law on Conflict of Interest in the Institutions of BiH, which carries out the Central Election Commission, with the recommendations set out in the Report, and the relevant Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion on 6. Six. In 2012. The Commission adopted the Report and proposed to the House to adopt and support the recommendations set out therein. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10737	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is already a traditional activity and the Election Commission and both homes of the Parlametner Assembly of BiH. This home is actually the address addressed by the Central Election Commission, they are the only one of all institutions related to this home here and I am glad that here for several years we have already established a practice of considering the election commission's reports on the problem it is facing, I call it, in the application of the laws that we have passed, which it implements. The report was made for every law in the power of the Electoral Commission, on page 127, before that are final considerations, and there are recommendations. The Constitutional Commission has supported this together and is proposing that this House act as well as the Constitutional Commission. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10738	Thank you. Dear colleague Nermina Zaimović-Uzunović-Uzunović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10739	Thank you very much. For me, for the third year, I have been discussing the Central Election Commission Report, the Annual Report which they refer to in the parliamentary procedure. I must say that, as far as the report itself is concerned, it is one document that may be one of the most comprehensive that we get here in Parliament, fully supported by facts, very professionally designed and it treats a problem that is extremely important, both for the work of all political parties, so to implement these three laws..., or more laws, which I will mention mainly these three for which they are authorized to implement them. There are others, but I will refer to the Election Law, the Law on conflict of interest in BiH's government institutions and the Law on the financing of political parties. The Central Election Commission implements the laws no matter what they may be, but it also gives us proposals every time to warn the Parliamentary Assembly of what is not good and what should be changed. Here, in the previous report, they warned us about, among other things, many things that were wrong and that was one list about them, and we agreed by working in the Interresor Working Group that it should be changed. Here is also this time, at the end of the Recommendation Report, which is the result of 78 experienced problems that have been shown in the work of the CEC, for which the Parliamentary Assembly is competent to propose amendments and amendments to these laws. ... I specifically suggested that the procedure for making BiH political parties' laws be launched, which as an initiative was not passed at this home, and I see again that it was included in the Central Election Commission's recommendations that such a law should be made. I support it when it comes to the CEC report, by saying that in these warnings, and above all, I would refer to it, so let's say, the Law on conflict of interest in institutions at different levels is not uniform, it is not consistent. So it would be necessary in some subsequent period to comply with the law on conflict of interest in entities, in Brcko District, to remove the ambiguities that exist in the interpretation of these laws. And of course, what is unacceptable, and what is already proposed in the amendments to the Law on conflict of interest, and I hope that it will be accepted as already included. So, in the work of the Interresor Working Group, we also managed the suggestions that CEC members gave to the Interresor Working Group. When it comes to the Law on the financing of political parties, then the CEC has the right to control the work of political parties, their financial operations through an audit department that has within the CEC. And here we have information on the results of the financial operations of certain political parties. In the next period we have already installed into this law which was the subject of the previous point, we have more precisely determined financing, sources of funding of political parties and more transparent spending and showing spent resources... when it comes to political parties. And to coordinate, something that needs to be aligned with international provisions, namely GRECO recommendations, remains that the continuing task is to work on. And I don't think I have any capital remarks on this, with the fact that I have to find out about the implementation of the Election Law after the election that there was no agreement, there was no uniform position of the CEC members on the application of the Election Law, which means that he is not clear, that he is not... and that even the CEC members can interpret him in their own way. So in this segment, the provisions of the Electoral Law should be amended safely, so that always interpreting every provision in the law would be unambiguous, not a question of the impact of different interpretations and influences of whatever nature they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10740	Thank you. Dear colleague Niko Lozančić, discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10741	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, but because of the number of clubs I have to report more often, otherwise if I were in a position like some other, we'd get deployed a little bit. Well, here, I'm going to start my debate with really one commendation on the work of the Central Election Commission because I think it's one of the institutions that is really very responsible, very professionally involved in building our electoral system and by doing their work contributes to making this system, this, every year, better and better. If we had this report, I think this report is for one thing, as I would say 79, serious consideration at one session is too large, because it treats a whole series of very important legal regulations, it's simply impossible to look back at all of them over a short period of time. What I did not see in this report, so here I am thinking whether or not it should be, but here I will mention that we have the fact that our, or certain provisions of our electoral law are assessed by the Constitutional Court of BiH as inconsistencies with the Constitution of BiH. I am also saying this as a member of the Interresor Working Group, because we had, among other things, a mandate to try to comply with electoral legislation with the Constitutional Court's ruling. I didn't see that problem mentioned here in the report and in the recommendations to look for, here, a solution to that problem. So I want it not to remain as something we don't know about, but more to remind us all that this Parliament has not yet fulfilled its obligation, we have not come to a solution which would remove the unconstitutions expressed in the Constitutional Court ruling concerning the provisions on the name of the place, I think, in part and in part, concerning the electoral system for the City of Mostar. From this place, this is not an objection to the Electoral Commission, an invitation to all of us when we are discussing this matter, to make every effort to remove this significant flaw in our electoral legislation. Another law that is very important here, which is mentioned in the Report, is the Law on Conflict of Interest, which is held from time to time, in which we have shared opinions, but from this very correct, responsible analysis and presentation in the Report you can see that the existing law that many think is very rigid essentially does not provide their function. ... The conflict of interest that arises, which is at least presented in this report is on marginal matters, you have no conflict of interest when it comes to preventing major abuses, large corruption possible or impossible acts, here you have shown conflicts of interest in whether someone's uncle is a member of the Management Board in some public, municipal, municipal enterprise and similar nature. So, we don't have, so this to consider to all of us and this, because from this review in this report, we can conclude that this law that we have today obviously doesn't serve our purpose, so when we discuss here the amendments and amendments or the new law on conflict of interest that we are taking into account, because the purpose of these reports to Parliament is to see shortcomings in regulations and this Election Commission is very correct, very professionally doing, to give us recommendations. Now, it's up to us not to be accusing the Electoral Commission again the day after tomorrow for something we didn't do. So, here in the recommendations stands, I will also support these recommendations, which are given, because they are on track for better solutions, except here is what there is no such recommendation as to bring the electoral legislation in line with the BiH Constitution. But here it is, and we know it's not here, and I'm standing up to say that there is no one to know it, we know that the electoral law is not in line with the BiH Constitution and that this is our obligation until we bring the electoral legislation into line. So, once again, I welcome the impartiality of the Election Commission, very professional work, and even in situations where they have been pressured by institutions that know or know how to put pressure on this country. And, when some of their decisions have been suspended, they have remained consistent with the respect of electoral legislation and I on that congratulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10742	Thank you. No more reports. Given this kind of discussion, that wouldn't be necessary, would it? Yes, I thank the CEC, the representatives who followed this report. I'm closing the debate. 80 And we're going to do the 10th point, Ad. Ten. Report on the implementation of the Single Rules for the Making of Legal Rules in BiH Institutions, applicant: BiH Ministry of Justice, material number: 01,02-50-19-600/12, of 7. 5. 2012 The Department of Justice is 7. 5th Report, the relevant Constitutional Legal Commission delivered Opinion 6. Six. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10744	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, this is again about the material discussed by the Constitutional Commission. You saw that we supported the report and suggested that the House be adopted a report with the conclusions, or recommendations set out in this report. And this is one of the regular activities that we do in the BiH Parliamentary Assembly and I can only thank the Justice Ministry, Mr Grubišić, who runs this area, on such a detailed report and on the analysis and recommendations he has offered us. Particular attention should be paid to this area because BiH has not yet established standards to that extent, there are no standards applied to the extent to which they must be applied when making the rules. I think that in the coming period we need to pay particular attention to regulation planning, early phase in the regulation process, so when the idea of a regulation, financial resources, public consultation, comes up, these are the conclusions that have special importance to me. And so that there is no confusion, so to make it easier for all of this to be adopted together, we on this committee, most of the votes, there have been several abstentions, and we have adopted the report and these conclusions. It seems to me that this conclusion 3 was somewhat problematic for some of the colleagues, who is talking about the establishment of special units within the body, where there is a lot of work, where there are no references or people, I agree and I think we should add that sentence – in line with the budget for each year, according to budgets. It was a request from colleagues to limit it, and I think that with that repair, we could adopt a complete recommendation report. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10745	Thank you. As I understand it, it means in the proposal measures to overcome the problem in conclusion 3 in the end to add – in line with the budgets. Okay, thanks. No more reports. I'm closing the debate. 81 We move to the 11th point: Ad. 11. Report on the implementation of measures to improve the conditions of business in agricultural production and the food industry of BiH, applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH, Material No: 01/3-28-605/12, of 8. 5. 2012 The Council of Ministers delivered Report 8. 5., in line with the conclusion of the House of Representatives at the 12th session, held on 27. Ten. The competent Commission for Foreign Trade and Customs delivered its opinion on 25 May 2016. 5. The Commission accepted the report and proposed to the House the adoption of the following conclusion: 'It is up to the BiH Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations to draw up an additional report for the first half of 2012 on problems in the realisation of the targets from the Map of Ways, with a special reference to progress and perceived concrete delays'. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear colleague Danijela Martinović, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10747	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We have really one comprehensive and detailed document with a series of measures, most of the administrative and technical nature. However, in a document that reads "A report on the implementation of the measures", I think there is largely a lack of this aspect relating to the implementation of the measures. Namely, the necessary quantifications and evaluations of the effects of the measures set out in this document are missing. We are all aware of the fact that, indeed, when it comes to the agriculture and rural development sector, we lack adequate statistics to monitor the assessment of those measures. The document also mentions the establishment of balances and needs and external trade balances. Unfortunately, we are very late when it comes to completing these statistics. It is said that strict application of regulations, procedures and so forth is needed, so we should probably be aware that this is something quite normal, that we should have fully stated the rules and procedures and applied them, or implemented them. In order to get a full insight into these measures and to realize the measures, we also need to have data from lower, or entity levels, because it is clear that when it comes to agriculture and rural development that most of the ingenuity, if not the general ingenuity, is it, bound and reduced to entity levels. If we had all the necessary analysis, we could actually talk about this document as follows. In fact, if we look at the support, so the grant of agriculture and farmers, or rural development, they're at BiH level, now I'm talking about one and another entity together, they're 155 million KM. If we compare data with other countries, countries in the environment, we'll really see that these data are devastating. In fact, only incentives in the Republic of Croatia are one billion, so 3 billion kuna, i.e. in the Republic of Macedonia which is twice as small as we are, these incentives are also much larger. What does that mean? This means that we do not only have defined at the level of entities of an adequate strategy, but we do not have a sectoral strategy at BiH level. We haven't really figured out which parts, which sectors, which areas we need to develop. 82 When it comes to this document, the problem is that we do not have, so when we do not have adequate legislation, that we do not even have a priority programme to take on the acquis when it comes to agriculture. The result is that entities adopt individual laws themselves, and then problems arise that these laws are not in line with EU legislation, so not only does one entity adopt one law, another law, so there is also a problem with each other's discrepancies and discrepancies with the acquis. We also have that classic problem of ours, which is that the entity laws are not in line with state-level laws, that is, with the measures adopted at the state level. Let me read to you, therefore, the results... and our incontinence, the results of which were witnessed by the report of the Committee on Food and Veterinary Affairs of the European Commission, which was in BiH at the beginning of this year. And that report will play a dominant role when it comes to the export of our products of plant and animal origin to the EU. This is what people said: "The BiH official controls system does not exist, official reports do not comply with EU requirements, there is no flow of information from the central competent authority through entity and cantonal bodies to the direct enforcement body. Staff carrying out checks and checks on approved facilities are not familiar with EU requirements. There is no guarantee that the control system is equivalent to EU requirements. The system must be adapted to the EU system, especially with regard to requirements relating to checks and controls, literally production from product to table." Also mentioned here is the Veterinary Office, which cannot guarantee the equivalence of the BiH control system with the EU system. We also have information in that material that we have not adapted to the legislation, nor have we technically adapted ourselves to the establishment of the IPA structure. What does that mean? That means we lose between 40 million and 50 million KM from IPA funds a year. We do not have an integrated administrative and control system, which means if we do not establish it, we will not be able to export agricultural products to the Republic of Croatia when it enters the EU or to the EU countries. So I appeal to the Council of Ministers to finally establish one control coordination mechanism in order to finally import everyone, let me say, key players when it comes to agriculture, which at the state level, as well as at entity levels. Perhaps the first step would be to get a real review of the measures, but quantified, so review of the measures when it comes to this report itself. So together, I, i.e. with Mr Ivanković, have already made a proposal for one conclusion, which reads: 'The Council of Ministers is obliged to quantify within 60 days the results of the measures set out in the report on the implementation of measures to improve the conditions of business in the agricultural production and food industry in the sense that the effects of those on the external trade and the situation in the rural sector are specified'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10748	Thank you. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10749	Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, we spent all day today, there were both important and irrelevant topics, but there is no irrelevant topic. My assessment is that we've spent more than 83 hours on some subjects than they deserve, and I'm afraid this is a subject that we're not going to spend as much time on as it takes to spend. I ask you, by respecting what the distinguished colleague Danijela said, that we delay the debate today on this subject, to invite the Minister of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations and the Chairman of the Council of Ministers here and that this topic is seriously discussed, because the data that Macedonia, which is twice as small as BiH and per capita and per territory, is twice as isolated in the incentives for agricultural production, is something that is alarming for us here. No matter what level the government stands out from, everything is gathered, I think that this topic should be given special attention and I suggest that, if another colleague Martinović agrees, that the debate be postponed on this topic, that the foreign trade minister be called at the session, at least, and the chairman of the Council of Ministers and that we discuss it then. There is no more important topic at this time in BiH than this, in my opinion, given our European path as well. I'm asking you to put this to a vote.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10750	Thank you. Chairman of the dom, Mr. Živković.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10751	Thank you. Regarding what counterpart Džaferović was saying, I want to say a few things. Namely, the assistant minister is here. Our commission unanimously adopted the report. ... Parliament's work takes place in committees and sittings. Most of our work should be held in committees. If the Commission has suggested that this be discussed twice or made other proposals, then we should listen to this committee. However, the Commission only made a proposal for a conclusion and proposed that an additional report be drawn up as far as I read here. Let's do this job today, put in charge or say the deadline when that extra report is to be delivered and then we'll have a discussion about it. I think it's a lot more fruitful than we are right now to delay the debate on this, and once again, we are considering an additional report that according to this and the findings of this committee and all of this, surely, should welcome us. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10752	..proposals, so I'm not at all, so I'm not sneezing things, I just want this to be the subject of a serious debate here in Parliament. So that's the point. However we agree, is it to postpone today, is it to wait for the supplemental report, here I can support what the Commission has proposed these conclusions. So that's not a problem for me. The purpose of my report is to put this in the right place. Therefore, if you think, if this commission thinks it should be as it suggested with this conclusion, then I will withdraw my proposal, so there is no need to plead. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10753	Thank you. 84 Do you agree to give the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations a deadline (here is an additional report by the Commission for the first half of 2012) for this to be July 15th. And after that, we have a July 21st session, when we can discuss this report and this additional report, and that's how we do all the work. It can be done in three days, says the assistant. I think this is a perfectly reasonable suggestion. Thank you. There's no one else to report, I'm closing the hearing. We're going to the 12th point, Ad. 12. Report on the protection of personal data in Bosnia and Herzegovina for 2011, submitr: Agency for the Protection of Personal Data in Bosnia and Herzegovina, material number: 01,02-50-19-633/12, of 16. 5. 2012 In accordance with Article 40(1) of point (c) of the Personal Data Protection Act, the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data submitted Report 16. 5. The relevant Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion to 6. Six. In 2012. The Commission adopted the Report and proposed to the House to adopt it. I'm opening a debate on the report. Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10755	I often answer for the word, it's my position, but all my discussions won't pass today the usual time for some two discussions, whether or not, and perhaps a discussion and a half. So I propose that Parliament adopt this report. It's about the area we're just opening in BiH, we're just putting it in the right place. You have received a report that is too detailed, even talking about concrete examples. The agency has gone into action, there are a lot of resistance, there are problems, you've seen, and there are several proposals for conclusions at the end of this report and I call on you to support both the report and these conclusions and encourage the Agency to do its job in accordance with the law, as prescribed. We have given them the proper importance of amending and supplementing the law, when we decided to bind the Agency directly, when it comes to the appointment of key people, i.e. the director, to the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10756	Thank you. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10757	Thank you, Chairman. 85 And I'll try to be as short as possible, but I don't think we should let a report like this go undetected down here, just for a simple formal vote. I must say that this is one of the most qualitative reports I've read here since I've been in this House. And what's good, as Honorable counterpart Džaferović said, is that it's about an agency that's in turn and that it's about an area that's even in the water. However, here, although it seems to me that in 2006, a Law on the Protection of Personal Data has been passed, in this short time the Agency has shown that it can indeed function as an independent agency, as an agency that will be the authority of all institutions. Here, I must say, recently a minister from the government of RS complained to me, saying, "Can you imagine Petar Kovačević punished me," I call him and say why you did this to me." He says, "Well, that's what the law did to you." And I welcome that kind of work. And I have to say, we recently had a report here, I'm not going to mention now whose people in that body complain that they didn't recognize in public, and their primary job is to be recognized in public. We have an example here at the Agency as someone becomes recognized in public, by their work. I really, here's all of us when we open up the media, I think at least a week we find two or three texts that refer to specific examples of life, so here's one of those requests for convictions about impunity. More or less today, all BiH citizens know that it is to seek a conviction of impunity in some competitions against the law. What I would, of course, support all these recommendations that are here, and I must also say, by reading the media again, so I see Serbia, let's say, is now, they're somewhere in step with us, but when I see what they're doing and what they're saying from their agencies, I'm really proud, because I see that we've moved away from Serbia, far away in that field. Anyway, so we've all seen a lot of concrete results that I don't want to comment on right now, I support the proposal for conclusions at the end of this report. And what I'd like to ask the Agency's representatives here is: we all feel a little bit with those huge video surveillances, and I see in the report there's a good deal dedicated to it, just like in Big Brother. And that a little bit through the media, through the public, through education, to distinguish more where it can be, where it can't be. Today the video monitors are setting up wherever they want. When I get to my house, the first thing I find at the intersection of the building is video surveillance, I go in, there's one in front of the bank, the other in front of the bank, and it means a little bit, through the media, through the public to clear up, to see which way control. Do we perhaps need some help to improve regulation or to deal with this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10758	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10759	Chairman of the dom, Mr. Živković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10760	Thank you. I want to support the Agency's work, say that she's done well in the past, that there's a lot more to be done, and so do we, let's say, get used to things that are around us, and that we don't notice. At the entrance to the Parliamentary Assembly, you saw that there was a device on the finger that controls who comes in from employees. The question is this Parliamentary Assembly does it have the right for someone to control personal data, which is a fingerprint, at the entrance to the building? We don't think about these things 86 because we think it's okay, it's security, but no one's asking if it's also personal data protection. So we come into a situation every day to think about such things, that the Agency has a lot to do, that on several occasions, under quotes, it's hooked up with institutions like the Central Election Commission that apparently went over that step in the protection of personal data and that we need to give support to the Agency to perform courageously in that direction. Thank you. Director? All right, thanks to Director Kovačević. Moving to the 13th point of the agenda: Ad. 13. Commission report to the Kolegijum on an effort to reach agreement on the proposal of MP Šemsudin Mehmedović for the debate on the report on the work of the Independent Commission on the monitoring of conditions of residence in institutions, the conduct and respect of human rights of persons subject to criminal sanctions and other measures imposed by the Court of Justice of Bosnia and Herzegovina, by foreign courts for acts provided for by the Criminal Law of Bosnia and Herzegovina or by an international contract signed by Bosnia and Herzegovina or by another court in accordance with the law of Bosnia and Herzegovina for a period of 14. Nine. 2010 to 31. 12. In 2011, which reads: “In the opinion of the Joint Commission on Human Rights, the rights of the child, youth, immigration, refugees, asylum and ethics in conclusion number 2 to include the words: KZ Banja Luka after the word of Zenici” A report on consent you received, the College as a commission failed to reach agreement, today we are pleading in the second round on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Šemsudin Mehmedović. We're not having this discussion. And we move on to point 14 Ad. 14. Information on the key security challenges in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2011 and Analysis of the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Strategy for the fight against organised crime and the Bosnia and Herzegovina Strategy for the Prevention and Combating of Terrorism, the BiH Ministry of Security material, issue: 01-04-2-34/12, of 4. 1. 2012
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10763	Well, as chairman of the Joint Defence and Security Commission, I have a need to explain a few things. Here's the chairman. He said there was this material. So, at the 13th session, held on 10. 11. 2011 The House adopted a conclusion obliging the Ministry of Security to provide information on the following information as soon as possible to the House of Representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly: 1. What are the key challenges, security challenges in BiH in 2011? 2. To what level has the Anti-Terrorism Strategy and the Anti-Organised Crime Strategy been implemented? I would just like to remind you that the BiH Security Policy adopted by the Presidency in 2006 was to be changed in line with the new security challenges and, in that sense, the Joint Defence and Security Commission has obliged the Ministry of Security to prepare and deliver such material to the Presidency. So, for various reasons, it wasn't done. So, we still don't have a new document, at least, a proposal for this new document called Security Policy, which follows this first conclusion -- that the House of Representatives will discuss the key security challenges in BiH after the BiH Presidency adopts a revised Security Policy document. As for the second conclusion relating to information on how long the Anti-Terrorism Strategy and the Anti-Organised Crime Strategy has been implemented, we have received documents that have not passed, that I am not only talking about their quality, but based on the fact that they have not passed the Council of Ministers procedure. And accordingly, the second conclusion is that the House of Representatives returns to the Ministry of Security an analysis of the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the BiH Anti-Terrorism Strategy and the Analysis of the implementation of the Action Plan for the implementation of the BiH Strategy for Combating Organized Crime, since these materials were not discussed and adopted at the meeting of the Council of Ministers of BiH. 88 So, we expect that the House of Representatives, the Ministry of Security, will re-deliver these materials and materials once the Council of Ministers of BiH has adopted these materials, and I think we would only then receive complete information and respond to the task set before us by the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10764	Thank you. No more reports, closing the hearing. Moving to point 15, Ad. 15. Information on the state of crime in Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2011, applicant: Council of Ministers of BiH, material number: 01,02-04-1-579/12, of 30. 4. 2012 The Department of Security is 30. 4. delivered the Information adopted at the 5th session of the Council of Ministers. The Joint Commission for Defence and Security has delivered its opinion on the Information 5. Six. The Joint Commission proposes that the House adopt a conclusion, which reads: "The Ministry of Security is obliged to draw up information on the security situation in BiH as soon as possible in 2011, and that, after the adoption of the BiH Council, it delivers it to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly for consideration." I'm opening an information debate. Dear colleague Dušanka Majkić, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10766	Also, let me just say a few sentences for a second. Each year, the Parliamentary Assembly, both at home, or through the Joint Commission on Defence and Security, adopts a document called 'Information on the Security of BiH'. For the first time this year, it has been deviated and instead of information on the state of security, as a comprehensive material, on which citizens of this country could assess what security environment we are living in, we have received a document called 'The Information on the State of Crime in BiH in 2011,', which represents the statisticalally collected numbers delivered by the entity MUPs and the MUP of Brcko District. So it's not material, that material... that's expected. It's not the material that needs to answer what's going on in this country, what's the security situation and what's ultimately the key response we might have to give the citizens. That is why this conclusion was subsequently proposed, that the ministry – it is in charge of the Ministry of Security to draw up information on the security situation for 2011 as soon as possible and to deliver the same to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly after the adoption of the Council of Ministers. Well, I mean, we can take a break and get the college to apologize sweet and smile, then we can keep working. It's really not right.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10767	Dear colleagues, I understand we're all tired, that we haven't taken a break for lunch today, but some among the college consults have to happen. If you think we can do it in a break, we're not taking a break. Don't let me warn you every time you talk to everyone, and you warn me only once I do it. Don't, don't, don't, I mean. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10768	I don't know if we're discussing this information now, first? So, if we're discussing information, that's fine.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10769	Dear colleagues, I could have given it at the previous point that the Commission's conclusions were immediately discussed, as I could at this point, and that would not have discussed anything, and an distinguished colleague would not have been given the floor at all. But here, I let us talk about this, see if you could maybe convince your colleagues and colleagues that this conclusion would not be accepted, so I opened up the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10770	I'm giving up the discussion, I mean really.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10771	Thank you... Dear colleague Slavko Jovićić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10772	I respect your recommendation. I'm sorry I'm not getting up. I'm giving up, too.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10773	Dear colleague Šefik Džaferović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10774	So here's what I'm going to do, and I'm not going to say anything, although it was useful, but I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10775	I thank and conclude the debate. Moving to the 16th point of the agenda: 90 Ad. 16. Analysis of the implementation of the State Strategy for War Crimes cases, materials: the High Judicial and Prosecutorial Council of BiH, issue: 01-50-2-13-26/12 of 16. 3. 2012, Court of BiH, number: 01-50-19-1257/11 of 22. 3. 2012 and the BiH Prosecutor's Office, issue: 01-50-19-1257/11 of 5. 4. In 2012 (on the occasion of Parliament's initiative, Aleksandra Pandurević, adopted at the 20th session of the House of Representatives, held 2. 2. 2012) – a delayed debate at the 28th session of the House of Representatives, held 24. 5. 2012 On the occasion of Parliament's initiative, Aleksandra Pandurević, adopted at the 20th session of the House, the Prosecutor's Office of BiH, the High Court and Prosecutor's Council of BiH and the Court of BiH delivered materials that constitute an analysis of the implementation of the State Strategy for War Crimes cases. The Constitutional Legal Commission has delivered Opinion 8. 5. In 2012. At the 28th session, held on 24th. 5. At the proposal of Parliament Aleksandra Pandurević, the debate was reopened until this session. I'm opening a debate. Dear colleague Aleksandra Pandurević, please.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10777	Thank you. So from these three reports we've received, these are the Court, the Prosecutor's Office and the Supervisory Body, we see that we have a strategy, we have judicial institutions, but we have no results. Someone said the judicial system is independent, the chief Hague prosecutor said in his UN report there was no political will. So political will depends on the results. As you can see here from these reports that the only result of the Strategy that was adopted in 2008 is the database. So we built a database. If we remember the reasons, which are here in the Supervisory Body Report, which is why the Strategy was made, and that was the existence of a large number of pending cases, so here I ask, I don't know if there is anyone to answer – what complex subject for these three years has been solved? He says there's no statistical data, okay, we've got the results, we've got the statistics. The inequality of judicial practice in war crimes cases before the courts of entities, Brcko District and the Court of BiH, which violates the constitutional principle of legal certainty and equality of citizens before the law. So that was one of the objectives of the strategy. So here's what I'm asking: have we evened out court practice after three years? We did not, and still most of the people are judged retroactively by a stricter law than the one that was in force at the time of the crime. This practice leads to absolute discrimination against persons tried before the Court of Justice of BiH in relation to other courts, with regard to penalties imposed for the same or similar actions. A particular problem is the behaviour of the BiH Court of Justice recently, where the BiH Court of Justice has required these courts to apply the BiH Criminal Law in cases of war crimes in disputes which it has committed to cantonal and district courts.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10778	SNSD colleagues, please listen to what your colleague is saying! 91
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10779	The supervisory authority reached one conclusion on 16 December 2011, in which it says that the courts cannot impose what law they will apply, but that, in particular, judges who run the case decide on it. Namely, what's going on here? The BiH court is one cunningly placed above the district, as a hierarchical higher court compared to cantonal and district courts, which is not because he is in their ranks, only the court of special jurisdiction. And it is essentially imposed in this way on the application of the BiH Criminal Law and Entity Courts, which do not apply the law in war crimes cases. Therefore, it is trying to unlawfully enforce the harmonisation of the case law and the application of the material law, the Blaze Law of BiH, which is stricter and which is the only one in the region that applies the BiH Court. One of the next motives for the strategy was unsatisfactory regional co-operation. So I ask, here, after three years, what's our regional co-operation today? Instead of the region's judiciary and our judiciary together persecuting those suspected of war crimes, we have cases that representatives of the BiH judiciary call on war crimes suspects not to travel to neighbouring countries, because they may be arrested there because the dark judiciary has filed some charges or investigated for war crimes. So our judicial system is put into the protection of war crimes suspects in the order of those who do not belong to the Serb people. Not to mention that the President of the Court of Justice of BiH has shown that he is a very powerful person in this country and has paused the signing of an agreement on the admission of evidence between the Serbian Prosecutor's Office and the BiH Prosecutor's Office. I guess that's good regional co-operation. The next reason for the strategy's adoption, they say, were the shortcomings in the agreed criteria for assessing the sensitivity and complexity of the case. Well, then, here in these reports we see that for three years these criteria were to be made, to be uniform, to see how the complexity of the subject would be assessed. And I'm very interested, and I'd like someone to tell me, and I don't want any of the exact knowledge that I have, and it's about this sensitivity of the subject. Who decides which object is sensitive, which one isn't? On what basis is an object sensitive? So it's an abstract notion that aims at hiding certain objects and keeping them in some drawers. And since the Strategy rests at a completely wrong premise, I'm not surprised she didn't give the results. Namely, instead of starting from the reported incident, the strategy comes from the reported perpetrator. An investigation into an incident that may but doesn't necessarily have to be a war crime would first determine whether any event has any elements of the war crime, after which the investigation would further identify the persons involved in the crime. So, the dobrovoljački and tuzlanski Colony, here are concrete examples of war crimes whose investigation would lead to the perpetrator. It was the wrong starting base that wanted to get to the point that the dobrovoljački and tuzlanski columns were not war crimes, but some collective suicides. The main objective of the Strategy is to process complex objects within seven years, with complexity qualified according to the severity of the crime and roles and property of the perpetrator. However, when in previous proceedings before the BiH Court of Justice, they are called upon by the Strategy and these allegations, the BiH Court routinely rejects them. A concrete example: the case of Milan Perić, who was released in a second-degree procedure. So such complex objects are what has been found, which is estimated to be complex items: cases of two Bošnjak from Srebrenica who had no military, political, or executive function, that is, before the Court of BiH and their processing because they slapped two Srbin in the war and beat them. It's obvious someone needs them there as cosmetic statistics. 92 E, I ask whether these objects, trials of these two Bošjak, are more complex than those of the beginning of the war, that I do not now list them, Sijekovac, tuzlanski, dobrovoljački, etc. And what I'm asking is, who's going to answer at all? Because it's going to be seven years, it's not going to meet the objectives of the Strategy, who's going to take responsibility? Who will take responsibility because the Strategy is not realized? In which category are the complexities of dobrovoljački and Tuzla columns? If these are complex cases to be prosecuted before the Court of Justice of BiH, why has the BiH Prosecutor's Office not been pleading for three years about the appeal to suspend the investigation into the Tuzla column? How is it that, according to prosecutor Roman, the applicant of the matter has a dobrovoljački hour, the hour has no right to appeal. And what about this complaint? Why the investigations were suspended without explanation. How is it possible for a foreign prosecutor investigating the case to be a witness to the suspect while the other foreign prosecutor says that the JNA column in Dobrovoljska was a legitimate target. A column leaving BiH under the agreement, headed by the UN forces? If they tried something, attacked, where did they die, under the name of the defendants? If the criteria for assessing the complexity of the cases are the perpetrators' roles, then are there any more responsible than Atif Dudaković and Ejup Ganić, who were commander of the Corps and member of the BiH presidency? If these aren't complex cases, maybe the Court and the D.A. think so, why don't they give them up to entity justice? Here is the RS justice system, the strategy itself admits, has the capacity to judge war crimes and I believe it is able to complete these two cases within a year. So, the way out of the whole strategy? As time's coming, there are two exits, two possibilities, because it's obvious that the Strategy hasn't moved since the beginning. One is that in this country the laws apply equally to everyone and stop the violence and tyranny of the BiH judiciary against Serbian victims, that everyone on all sides is equal before the law and is responsible for what he did and that the judiciary does its job, as it does in other countries. And that's one way out, and we, in line with this proposed exit, are going to suggest that I don't read now, and a set of conclusions stemming from the Supervisory Body Report and recommendations under the structural dialogue. The second exit, if we don't, maybe there's no political will on the other hand, is to pass the law on amnesty. Such laws were passed by communists in '44, '45. and '62. A year. In World War II, far more serious crimes occurred than they were in the last war, so 17 years after that World War II, Aleksandar Ranković demanded and amnesty was adopted for perpetrators of crimes against the people and the state, constitutional order and international law. And that's a solution that would turn us into the future, instead of having a problem here that is a constant source of political turbulence in the country. If not accepted, I appreciate none of these two exits, I believe that RS will be forced to assume jurisdiction on the principle of universal jurisdiction because it has protected the subjects and killed the wounded campers. And it's nothing new. That's what the Njemce did after World War II. Whoever accepted the perpetrator of the war crime could have tried him. So the decision is whether our demands and conclusions will be accepted and how they will come out of all of this on the right. Through these conclusions, I repeat, we offer a solution that will lead to equal treatment of all victims, in which the judiciary will not be shared, mother tears against their nationality, we offer solutions that will be the same before the law and that justice will be for everyone in this country. If there is no will on the other hand, I think we have a responsibility before us, that the RS itself is fighting for its victims and for justice for its victims. Thank you. 93
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10780	Thank you. I would like to inform you that the president of the High Court and Prosecutorial Council of BiH has sent an apology that he cannot attend the session, but here at the... session, on behalf of the supervisory body for monitoring and implementing the State Strategy for Working on War Crimes cases, a member of the Supervisory Board, Mr. Janko Vilimirovic, Vilimirović, so that in the event of the need to give answers, I invite him to take part in the debate. Dear colleague Slavko Jovičić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10781	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, well, Aleksandra said a lot of things, so I'm not saying it again. I'll just remind you of a few things: in 2007 when I proposed that the competent ones of the institutions, the BiH Court, the prosecution and other judicial authorities make one strategy, and then I specifically proposed that we end up with problems of war crimes within five years, which was my unrealistic proposal and could not be realised. But I even went with the variant, so I said that if they were to receive 200 prosecutors, 200 judges, to make it look like it's better in five years to end than they're pulling this off in 50 years, so they're going to spend more money than they'd spend, and witnesses are going to die out, there won't be any more war crimes stories, because in 20 years no one's going to talk about this. But these are our current problems. This country should be preserved if possible in the next five years, not 20 years. But the way it is, it's hard to do this. So that not only would every discussion cause a threat to someone else, under the supposed signs, because I never do it, so now we would do something to me if others didn't, so here, if they didn't want what we're looking for, well, now we're going to do it our own way. It's not about will, it's about something else. Well, he says he likes to remind me because they forget these things, not you, because you know it all. Asked the Department of Justice three or four times to come out with a proposal to say: is there anywhere in the world to retroactively apply Criminal Law? But the execution, at that time when it was carried out, the criminal law that was in force was true for everyone. And that's what we're taught by the foreign Democrats who come in and out, but only if they hear that the Serbian side's proposal came in, they won't give us support, and I've talked to countless of them. And when I finish the official part, so friendly, of course, with everyone good, I say, am I right to say this. Mr. Ambassador, we admire you. You're all right. He said, just to get the cameraman on RS TV to tell him what you told me. Oh, don't be rich, so normally they won't confirm it. That's the way it is. Don't get rich, it's been five years, witnesses are gonna die, no, what strategy is gonna solve all this here? There's no strategy to bring two things, and that's like this, so don't let anyone resent me if I look at someone from a fellow Bošnjak I greatly appreciate. But we'll never understand myself and some of my fellow Bošnjak how it was in a certain space and who committed crimes there. Never. He'll have his truth, I'll have mine. I may respect his truth, he won't be mine at that moment or it'll be the other way around. And what strategy can solve anything? Only this court can be unhappy and the prosecution can drag us in for years, where we will be dissatisfied gradually. And I've said it countless times, I'll say it again. The Serbian representative, he was a parliamentarian, he was an NGO, he was from the institute, he was anything in position, he would never be satisfied with the work of this court and the prosecution. It's perfectly clear, so you can see what's going on. Well, then it's all about the Strategy. They're about to arrive at the DA's office and the court, but again 94 invoiced to us. A lot of damages this country will have to pay off. No word on the Strategy, who's going to pay for it? They didn't write a word. What means do they trust? To donations. Whose? For your needs, etc., etc. So, this strategy, I remember well, has a stenogram, and I admire my colleague Majkić for picking it up once, and now I'm going to do it, I'm going to pick up the stenograms, and I don't forget it, I don't need them, I just need them to say it. I'm in that session. It's not important. I suggested they make a strategy. At that session I looked on the right side of the prosecutor of the then Marinko Jurčević and told him directly: man, make this go away. So I watched Novković sitting there, I didn't even know what function he was in, so then the chairman, Mr Belkić, warned me, says, "Here's the man, the president of the Judicial and Prosecutorial Council, he did. I didn't know who he was. But now his term is extended, so be it. If I were to ask what results, immediately, there are those MPs and those politicians who interfere in the work of judicial institutions. I'm not getting involved. I want them to get involved in their business and then I don't need to speak and discuss at all. But obviously, everything Aleksandra said, we're unhappy. It is not Aleksandra and I, not MPs, Serbian representatives, but a Serb people who are putting pressure on us. And you can see everything, it's all obvious and it's all clear. So the Strategy is nothing, neither has it solved nor will it solve, until there are no results from the Prosecutor's Office and the Court. So I ask you a question, I don't have this left-hand side to ask when, and here's Šakota, it's good that the report prepares how damaged BiH's budget is with their strategies different? A strategy for this, a strategy for this, a strategy for this, and all strategies against the peoples and citizens of BiH who have to pay for their reluctantness and their various strategies that have completely passed, which have not contributed, which have not resolved anything. And I propose another strategy, so we can get rid of all their strategies. Now that's the only strategy that we can save ourselves and not bother on this, we waste ourselves and time, here's five minutes and I'm done, I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10782	Thank you. Dear colleague Adnan Bašić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10783	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wouldn't answer, and believe me, I haven't heard this kind of expertise in the field of war crimes in a long time. I didn't even know we had an expert like Mrs. Pandurević sitting among us. It is true that a large number of war criminals are still walking through this country, as well as around this country. And as long as the last of them are not brought to justice, there will be no real peace in these territories. I completely agree with Mrs. Pandurević. It's not a problem here just to get water on your mill, to arrest members of only one people. If someone does it on purpose, it's wrong and I'm against it. But we must be aware that a huge number of war crimes has been committed in the field of ex-Yugoslavia, in particular BiH. Huge, terrible, who has amazed the world. And we all know that it might take longer than it took to hunt Jevrej for Nazi criminals. Many of you, remember in one discussion, I told you, and day and day there is a law that no Jevrej who is alive can miss an opportunity if it points to a war criminal who is also alive. It's their law. We'll do the same. Whether it's done the right way or not, that's something else. But don't use it for other things. 95 I'm still standing on it, damn every one that any war crime did. He must come to justice. Just judging by the sloppyness and sloppyness of sometimes the way it's done, it seems to me that many will die of natural causes. And another thing, a large number of foreign intelligence and counterintelligence services counted our blood cells during the war in BiH. All of us sitting here know very well. Every piece of information is available to them. They have every piece of information. Isn't it a little contradictory what strangers show us? No matter where he hid, in which country he lived, under what name he was hiding, they deliver to the court in The Hague or BiH if he commits war crimes here. Look how many times they've brought people like that back, after so many years of hiding. So you can't hide the truth. That's what we all need to know. War crimes must be convicted and convicted. There is no peace in this country, that true primordial in the hearts of men, while one of them is free to walk this earth. That, Mrs. Pandurević, I want you to represent yourself, and then I'll congratulate you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10784	Thank you. Is there a need? There isn't. There is. There isn't. Okay. I'm closing the debate. Moving to point 17, Ad. 17. A statement on the initiative of MP Nermine Ćemalović from the 26th session of the House of Representatives, held on 19th. 4. In 2012, which reads: "The requirement to form a commission in the state parliament that would, with the BiH Ministry of Civil Affairs and the Ministry of Health of both entities and Brcko District, in the short run, consider the possibility of preparing the Bill on Transalantation and Founding a Donor Network in BiH" MP Nermina Ćemalović submitted an initiative at the 26th session. The Constitutional Legal Commission delivered its opinion to 6. Six. I'm opening an initiative debate. Dear colleague Nermina Ćemalović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10786	...the chairman, in a conversation with the MPs, I realized that this topic is really important and that there is a mood to be updated in Parliament. However, there is a need for us to agree on a way to formulate the problem and the topic itself. I therefore withdraw the initiative and suggest the following conclusion: 96 'I propose that the minister of civil affairs with the health ministries of both entities and Brcko District, in accordance with the competences, consider the possibility of regulation in the field of transplant and donor networks in BiH and inform the House of Representatives.' Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10787	Thank you. We're closing the debate. Moving to 18th point, Ad. 18. Discuss the extension of the mandate to BHRT Management Board members The Board of Directors of BHRT shall be 23. 5. submitted a letter stating that 31. 5. The mandate stands out for members of the Management Board, and asks that the temporary conclusion of the House ensure the legitimacy of the members until the election of new ones. The Transport and Communications Commission delivered Opinion 5. Six. It proposes the adoption of the following conclusions to the House: 1. The members of the Board of Directors of BHRT, to which the term of office has expired, shall be renewed for a period of 90 days starting from 1. Six. In 2012. 2. The BiH Parliamentary Assembly's House of Representatives is asking the BiH Council of Ministers to implement the House's conclusion as soon as possible at the 20th session, held on 2nd. 2., which reads: "The Council of Ministers of BiH is in charge of preparing and delivering the parliamentary procedure for amending and supplementing the Law on Communications, Official Messenger of BiH, issue 31/03, 75/06 and 32/10, and the Law on the Public Radio-Television Service of BiH, Official Messenger of BiH, issue: 92/05 and 32/10, in order to allow the amendments to the existing provisions of those laws to enable the conclusion of the Parliamentary Assembly of BiH as regards the re-implement of the procedure for the appointment of members of the Board of Directors of BHRT from the Croatian and Serbian people." I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. Dear colleague Ismet Dervoz. Here you go. I almost skipped you.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10789	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just one suggestion. I think this situation with BHRT's boards has a bit of an impact on the integrity of this Parliamentary Assembly in our way of working and the way our decisions are respected. I propose that it be corrected, I have justifiably not been present at the Commission's session and therefore I could not intervene there, I suggest that one sentence be corrected in this conclusion. Not that the Council of Ministers should, as soon as possible, but that the Council of Ministers, within an extended period of 97 days from 90 days, bring amendments and additions to the laws that would allow us to address this problem. Thank you. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Then you shouldn't accept it. I suggest that the Parliamentary Assembly never accepts the extension of the term of office of members of the Management Board again. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10792	Thank you. Please submit your proposal in writing in order to put it to a vote, so that I can then put this vote proposed by the Commission. I'm closing the debate. We're going to the 19th point. Before we move to the 19th point, I suggest that the House declare that the debate between the 19th and 24th points is united, as it is a matter of giving consent to the ratification of the agreement. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! For 22, it wasn't, like, one "restraint." I agree that we have adopted a proposal to bring together a debate on points 19 to 24. Ad. 19. - 24. Giving consent to ratification The opinion of the committee responsible for external affairs on approval for ratification has been given to you. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Is it enough at 6:30 to be a vote? 98 [[Common discussion]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10797	No microphone 100
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10798	There are doubts about the vote. Please prepare to vote again. You can vote now! 'For' 13, 'against' 19,'restricted' one. So no negative opinion has been adopted, but legislative proceedings have been suspended. We have two conclusions from distinguished counterpart Senad Šepić, one: "The Council of Ministers of BiH and other institutions that have the obligation to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of BiH are in charge to refer exclusively to those amendments and amendments to the laws that deal with the rulings of the Constitutional Court of BiH." Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 19, "against" 13, "restricted" one. Insufficient entity majority. We're going to the second round of voting. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 19, "against" 13, "restricted" one. I find that two-thirds of the RS vote is "against" and this conclusion has not passed. We are voting on the proposal for the conclusion of MP Beriz Belkić: "It is up to the Council of Ministers of BiH to deliver a proposal to the BiH Parliamentary Assembly to amend the Law on Citizenship of BiH, which will only be treated by members of the 17th and 39th position (1), in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court of BiH." Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 20, "against" 13, "abstained" wasn't there. Insufficient support from the RS. We'll talk about this later. Point 6. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Public Television System of BiH, Proposers: MPs Mladen Bosić, Darko Babalj, Borislav Bojić, Aleksandra Pandurević and Vesna Krstović-Spremo-Premo, with the opinion of the Transport and Communications Commission Glasmo first on the opinion of the Transport and Communications Commission, which is negative. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! 'For' 27, 'against' five,'restricted' one. 101 I find that we have adopted the Commission's negative opinion and this law is returning to the commission stage. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] We have a proposal to conclude Mr. Mladen Bosić. I would like to warn my esteemed colleague that we in the College have considered this conclusion, that we are at the point of interpreting the Rules of Procedure that the law which did not pass in the first reading cannot be assigned to our commission to publish a public debate. I call on you to rephrase this conclusion in a way that organises the debate or organises the debate within the committee itself so that we can put this conclusion to the vote. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]]
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10801	... One suggestion,...a moment ago when we voted not to return to commission but to fall. [[no microphone turned on]] If we adopt a negative opinion, the law falls.
ParlaMint-BA_2012-06-07-0.u10802	You're right. And I want to remind you, here's the secretary warned me, since we adopted the Commission's negative opinion, this law has fallen, so it's not coming back to the Commission again, it's my fault, but here. So there is no, there is no, you adopt a proposal: it means that the House of Representatives is in charge of the Commission for Transport and Communications to organise a debate on functioning, in the manner in which they will organise in the Commission itself or call on a number of people to do so by the Commission. So, there's a public debate out there, no public debate. _________(?) [[no microphone turned on]] Well, that's what we've been doing so far, if there's any will. Please prepare for the vote. You can vote now! "For" 19, "against" 13, "restricted" one. Insufficient support from the Federation of BiH. _________(?) 102 [[no microphone turned on]]
