ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 21 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (11.07 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u4	On 21 September 2017, the President of the Senate and the President of the Chamber of Deputies appointed members of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the banking and financial system, as referred to in Law No 107 of 17 July 2017. The list of members will be published in the Annex to the Minutes of today's sitting. The Commission is convened for its constitution tomorrow, Wednesday, 27 September 2017, at 2:30 p.m., in the Chamber of the fourth floor of Palazzo San Macuto, on the way to the seminary.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00812 (text 3), tabled by Senator Augello and other Senators, 1-00813, tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other Senators, 1-00814 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other Senators, 1-00815, presented by Senator Stefani and other Senators, 1-00816 (text 2), presented by Senator Guerra and other Senators, 1-00830, presented by Senators Zanda, Bianconi, Zeller and other Senators, and 1-00831, presented by Senator Barani and other Senators, on the management responsibilities of banks. I would remind you that, in the afternoon sitting on 19 September, after the explanations of the motions, the debate took place and, on a proposal from the representative of the Government, it was agreed to postpone the follow-up to the examination in order to facilitate the definition of a unitary act of direction. Pending the arrival of the government representative, we suspend our work until 11.15 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.09 a.m. and resumed at 11.16 a.m.) I call the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u6	Mr President, at the sitting of last 19, I undertook to propose, on the basis of the debate in this House, the rewriting of an act of direction which would meet - I hope - as broad a consensus as possible. I completed this work and personally delivered the draft to the Groups by email. I therefore propose that the Groups withdraw their motions and converge on the following proposal for an act of direction to be shared in a unified manner, which I read: The Senate commits the Government: 1) to promote in good time a legislative initiative on the responsibility of directors, supervisory bodies and managers responsible for drawing up the accounts of failed banks, aimed at taking appropriate measures to ensure that, where the action of liability is exercised, pursuant to Article 2394 -bis of the Civil Code against the same subjects and the responsibility for them is established, the possibility to activate the ancillary penalties, with particular reference to the perpetual prohibition from public offices, the exercise of the professions, the management offices of legal persons and companies or to establish the inability to negotiate with the public administration; 2. to rapidly reconvene the whole of the sanctions, both criminal and administrative, in order to verify the adequacy, taking into account the EU regulatory framework in this area, including, as regards banks receiving State aid, the 2013 Banking Communication; 3) to implement the measures for the promotion and the effective dissemination of financial education within the time allowed - allowing the full operation of the Committee for the programming and coordination of financial education activities, referred to in Decree-Law No 237, converted by Law No 15 of 17 February 2017 - in order to increase citizens' knowledge of the financial instruments and services placed on the market, as well as their ability to assess the risk profiles associated with the different types of products offered. To this end, to take initiatives, with the involvement of national supervisory authorities, to ensure the correct application by all entities qualified to provide investment services, of the rules aimed at preventing the placement of the most risky financial instruments to retail customers not able to understand their actual risk, and at the same time to strengthen sanctions for non-compliance with those rules; 4) to favour, within the framework of the provisions of the European regulations and the criteria established by the legislation in force, the delay of the deadline for access to the benefit of the refreshment; 5) to establish, in agreement with the institutions of the European Union and in compliance with the European Union's state aid framework, a special vehicle to assist banks in the work of cleaning up their balance sheets, capable of creating a market for deteriorated loans, the demobilisation of which, in the medium term, is the main way to restore resources to the real economy and restore credit capacity to banks. Mr President, with this act of direction, I felt that I would gather substantially what was important in the various motions tabled, and I therefore propose that the Groups withdraw them and converge on it, which would obviously become a proposal of the Senate and not of the Government, which assumes it as such.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u7	I would ask Senator Augello, the first signatory of motion 812 (text 3), whether he intends to converge on the proposal for an act of direction of which the representative of the Government has just read.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u8	Mr President, we are working on the proposed text, which is very close to the solution. However, we would need a few minutes of suspension, because there are very small filings to do. Moreover, there are many signatories to the motions and we would like to reach a joint decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u9	What is your proposal regarding the duration of the suspension? AUGELLO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). I think we need about twenty or thirty minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If we all agree, we can suspend the sitting until 11.50 a.m. AUGELLO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We therefore suspend our work until 11.50 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.22 a.m. and resumed at 11.51 a.m.) I communicate that the agenda has arrived G1, signed by Senators Augello, Bonfrisco, Barani, Cappelletti, De Petris, Guerra, Marino Luigi, Marino Mauro Maria, Quagliarello, Tosato and Zanda. I give the floor to Undersecretary Baretta for possible additions to the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u10	Mr President, three amendments have been made to the text I read earlier, in agreement with all the groups. The first paragraph concerns the first paragraph where, on the third row, the word "fallite" has been removed after the word "banks." In the fourth paragraph, in the first line, the word "normative" has been replaced by the following: "procedural procedures." Finally, paragraph 5 has been deleted. I thank all the parliamentary groups and the Senate for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u11	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u14	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, banking events have been a special feature of successive governments since 2014. Over the last two years, the events involving banks have held a stand in the country and have had objectively difficult consequences to manage, penalising the competitiveness of our markets and monopolizing on several occasions the attention of the Government. A little history doesn't hurt. What I'm saying has occurred since the Christmas break two years ago. Just then, between Christmas and New Year's Eve, it was discovered that four Italian banks, led by Banca Etruria, were in default and that, in order to save and recapitalize them, the government then chaired by Matteo Renzi, had ratified in record time the European directive on bail in, paying particular attention to save the administrators of the banks responsible not only for the bad management, but in some cases also to have given directives that would lead to the scam of thousands of small savers, who would have been induced, without their knowledge, to invest in highly risky bonds. Such diligence by the Government was not then used to make operational the twin directive which was concerned with protecting the savings of current account holders of institutions in crisis, who would otherwise have seen their accounts cleared. A few months later, a similar fate, with only apparently less grotesque profiles, was reserved for Venetian banks, Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Banca Carige, for which the Italian State allocated, between guarantees and interventions, 20 billion euros of public money. If the banks were rescued, the 200,000 small shareholders, who had been persuaded to subscribe to the shares of the two banks as preparatory activities to the granting of a loan, paid the highest price by losing everything they had invested. These little savers will suffer in addition to the damage, the mockery. In fact, if in the case of Banca Etruria and the other three banks it was decided to make available, at least on paper, refunds for savers with investments of up to 100,000 euros, in the case of Venetian banks the treatment was not even symbolically comparable. We cannot fail to mention here a third case, which has crept between the two: the case of Monte dei Paschi di Siena. For Monte dei Paschi di Siena we have seen a different modus operandi in form and substance, both from the first and the second case. Although the institution of Rocca Salimbeni had already used the market for 8 billion in the last two years before the last injection of liquidity, there has actually been a new failure, which cost the state - and therefore taxpayers - an additional 20 billion. On this occasion the government, after having in fact replaced the top positions with men of its trust and having entrusted six zeros to JP Morgan, found a way to escape - only in this case and only for Monte dei Paschi - the application of the bail in. The shareholders and bondholders of Monte dei Paschi, unlike their Venetian, Tuscan, Marche and Genoese counterparts, could have slept peacefully. For them the way of salvation had been taken. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I believe that we can get out of this a fair judgment by saying, in short, that the Italian banking system is for now safe. The price we paid was a high price in every way. The Government has succeeded, in applying the rescue policies of the banks, in achieving a series of results of questionable utility. I would like to make a brief summary of this. One, to charge investors, and in particular bondholders, the costs of the bad management of the banks in question. Two, use three weights and three measures to the detriment of savers: in the case of Banca Etruria and the other three banks were guaranteed reimbursements (for now more symbolic than real), in the case of the Venetian banks no guarantee has been provided and in the case of Monte dei Paschi the total protection of all accounts and investments has been guaranteed. Three, to protect the top banks in failure - in many of these cases clearly responsible for the bad management of accounts - from any liability or hypothetical causes of compensation by savers. Four, allow - sometimes also because it was the only viable way - various private individuals to benefit from these defaults. Mr President, some of these results are not erasable, but they are history, while others can be mitigated. I believe that this agenda goes in this direction. I also believe - and I shall conclude - that this is first and foremost a victory for those who took the initiative. I must say that our Group, which tabled the motion first, is proud to have done so. I thank Senator Augello for the initiative he has taken and I thank Senator Bonfrisco who, with her expertise, especially on Venetian banks, has contributed to the drafting of the act. But I believe, Mr President, that this is above all a victory for Parliament. I would like to point out that some of the requests for amendments contained in this agenda were already included in the amendments tabled to the Budget Committee to the House. It should also be remembered that the same would have been voted and approved if the Government had not expounded them at the time when it tabled the maxi amendment. Today, thanks to this agenda, most of those amendments are reviving. This is not a revenge, Mr President, but it is the victory of a correct way of conceiving the relationship between Parliament and the Government as separate powers, but that can affect one another to ensure that what would pass under silence is recovered instead. The fact that this has happened in the Senate, Mr President, gives even more meaning and taste to this story. For this reason, the Federation of Freedom Group (Idea-Popolo e Libertà, PLI) will vote firmly and proudly for the G1 unitary agenda. [[Applause from Senator Bonfrisco]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u15	I would remind all Members that the time allowed for explanations of vote is five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u18	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to make it clear from the outset that the Group of the North Legacy had doubts until the very last moment about the request to join a unitary act of direction. This is for a simple reason: if the Government really had the will to adhere to the demands contained in this text, which essentially, on the one hand, proposes finally to establish severe sanctions against those bank managers, the leaders of the banking institutions that created these situations of failure and these scams and, on the other, to protect savers more, then the ideal instrument would have been to accept an amendment to this effect within the budgetary law, therefore within a binding measure. The fact that we are united today in approving an agenda may represent a hope, but not a certainty and we are accustomed to prefer certainties over trust data, especially with respect to a government that does not deserve it. However, in the end we decided to withdraw our motion, which was more stringent and binding and contained more points to protect savers and against those who created this disaster and we did so for a simple reason: because we want to remove all alibi from the government than the contents of this agenda. In view of this gesture, of this desire to approve a unitary text, we expect the Government to honour the content of this agenda in concrete terms and to act quickly within this legislative period. We do not want to see an inertia and a substantial failure on the part of the Government before this agenda in the face of a parliamentary term that is ending. This distrust of the Government is also motivated by the time when the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the banking and financial system was set up. We all know that this need arose almost two years ago with the infamous and bad measure saves banks, which eliminated the relationship of trust between savers, banking system, politics and government; the Commission was to be set up almost two years ago, whereas this happened very late and will begin its work only in these weeks. It is clear that this too seems to be a delaying choice by the Government and the majority, in order to prevent this Commission from reaching any conclusions. We would not want these good intentions, this unity of the Senate in this sitting to turn into yet another mockery of citizens. The responsibilities of all these events, of these failures and of these scams are of two kinds: on the one hand, politics, which has not been able to act to defend its economic system and consequently banking and, on the other hand, the great leaders of these institutions, who are still enjoying impunity, in the inertia of the Government that does not approve laws that instead penalise them. The only certainty is that in all these events it was the citizens who were cheated, who lost all their savings, with an incomprehensible attitude of the Government that penalized the savers of some banks more than those of others could not find solutions to protect shareholders and savers who invested in bonds their resources. Here, this is the only certainty: savers have been penalized and those responsible have not paid. We would like a different model in which the Government protects savers, sets itself as a primary and necessary objective, hits those who are responsible and tries to change a policy that obviously does not work. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u21	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, our Group has signed the G1 agenda. We never had any doubts: when we seek unanimity in the Senate it is always an important thing and, of course, everyone must try to give up something in favour of others. We thank the Government which has contributed, through the Undersecretary, in a decisive way to the realization of the unitary agenda. The only recommendation - and I shall conclude, Mr President, therefore, remains abundantly within five minutes - is that the Government should not allow the agenda to remain merely written. We believe that it must be implemented, that it must be consequential and can do so immediately, including by including in the laws that arrive at the House and the Senate amendments that can give effect to what is written on this agenda, which enjoys unanimous consent. Let me add a final remark: when we talk about banks, we cannot separate the speech from what will happen tomorrow, when the Commission of Inquiry is finally set up. Again, there is a need for that Commission to have an authoritative and ungaged presidency, not a majority one, because when a majority wants to put one of its own to chair a committee of inquiry it means that it wants to gag it. If the Presidency is given to any opposition group, we believe that it will do its job better, towards the objective set. Even if we are six months away from the end of the parliamentary term, this Commission of Inquiry can give us many satisfactions and at least it could clarify who the first hundred have appropriated the funds of the banks, then making them fail. Finally, I would add an extraneous consideration to the agenda: we believe that the Government should also take action with regard to the Bank of Italy and CONSOB, which they had to supervise but have not done so at all.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u24	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that a good result has been achieved, as has also been said by the previous speaker, a positive result of parliamentary work which meets with the Government's willingness to accept to a large extent the requests contained in this agenda. I also believe that the work that has been done must also be emphasised for another function: a unanimous vote, as I hope it will be, of this branch of Parliament, strengthens the Government in a difficult task of confronting the European Union on the subject of banking crises. In fact, it is undeniable, having to take a photograph of what has happened in recent years, that there have been, in the different phases, double weights and two measures. Before the establishment of the Banking Union there was certainly a maxi-injection of public money in many European states for the rescue of the banks while Italy, at that stage, did not choose this type of intervention; then, when on the occasion of the stress tests, then of the assessment of the ability of the banks to resist any systemic crisis, the risks related to the toxic derivatives that were in the belly of numerous banks, in particular the German ones, were strongly underestimated. In the same way, an eye has been turned and continues to be directed towards the German savings banks, which are experiencing a crisis that is not very different from that of our smaller banks. I therefore believe that there is another problem, which has already been highlighted. In our country we have had three instruments of intervention: burden sharing, recapitalisation and compulsory administrative liquidation. These are three different savers' protections and the fact that the Government has managed the step-by-step crisis, outside a unified framework, has certainly contributed to increasing its perception and has led to a real crisis of trust, deep and not easy to solve, by savers towards the banking system and the control institutions. I do not think it takes too little time to recover this relationship of trust, but to do so it is necessary to give some clear signals. First of all, with a little pride I can say that the first item on the G1 agenda fully incorporates the meaning and meaning of the amendment that we presented to the House, which refers to the idea that we must return to the fundamental principle of the "wrong person pays" and, above all, we must put these people in a position to stop repeating the wrongdoing. Therefore, the first point commits the Government to promote in a timely manner a legislative initiative on the liability of directors, supervisory bodies and managers responsible for drawing up bank accounting documents, aimed at taking appropriate measures to ensure that, where liability is exercised, pursuant to Article 2394-a of the Civil Code against the same persons and that liability is established, it is made easier to activate the ancillary penalties, with particular reference to perpetual prohibition from public offices, from the exercise of professions, from the management offices of legal persons and companies or to establish the inability to negotiate with public administration. This is a clear signal and of course the pressing invitation to the Government is to find, as soon as possible, the legislative vehicle to move from a commitment on an agenda to a legislative act that can be more stringent. The second point I would like to highlight concerns item 4 on the agenda: savers are all the same, even if there are different banking crises. It is clear that for European legislation, burden sharing, recapitalisation and compulsory administrative liquidation are three different worlds, but it is quite solar that in the perception of savers it is necessary to find a minimum common denominator that holds them all together. For these reasons, once again thanking my colleagues and especially Mr Baretta, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of this agenda. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u27	LANIECE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, in stressing the need to reform and strengthen our sanctioning and control system towards credit institutions, we believe that we must continue to protect savers and bondholders, both in relation to failing credit institutions and which have been the subject of legislative action in recent years, and in view of the fact that we need to introduce more responsible profiles in order to determine an orderly and systemic path of reducing risk factors and supporting the financial stability of our banking system. What we believe today must be the subject of responsible assessments by all the parliamentary groups is the commitment, which we intend to preserve, to ensure that the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system is an instrument of conscious reflection, both in terms of critical factors, such as the impact of deteriorated credits on bank accounts, and in relation to illegal and fraudulent conduct that has led to the disruption of several credit institutions. We all have a clear political responsibility to avoid that the work of the Commission of Inquiry, even more so in this delicate phase of the end of the legislature, is spoiled by logics of part and instrumental political opposition, first of all, to be even more explicit, towards the highest supervisory authority represented by the Bank of Italy. The essential assessment of critical elements and illegal behaviour must, in our view, have a fundamental perspective: to indicate the additional actions deemed necessary to secure the system, in the medium and long term, and on these bases to ensure that the comparison at European level addresses the issue of new rules in order to ensure the future of the banking union. Finally, we need to make our banking system efficient, and this, as a matter of priority, concerns support for a path, further to the measures already taken, orderly, gradual but coherent reforms that are able to restore confidence in our credit system and, on a supranational level, in the union of the capital market in Europe and in the ways and forms of financing companies. For these reasons, the Group for Autonomies-PSI-MAIE will vote on the unitary agenda. [[Applause from Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u30	MARINO Luigi (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I always felt, when I was not in this building, that doing good politically and with great realism was a difficult and challenging thing. It is difficult because solutions to the problems of a complex society are not easy at all and it is difficult because they often tend to simplify, as in this circumstance. That is why I have never joined the campaign against our banking system. Instead, by reading the Report of the session last week on these motions, thanks to heaven brought back to a single agenda, my beliefs have collapsed; instead, politics is very easy and finding the cause of the evils of our country is quite simple, just as the remedies and cures are also easy. In this Assembly he sometimes indulges in an upside down re-reading of the events that have taken place in our country. Senator Gasparri, with the clarity that you owe him every time he speaks, presented this reading, in my opinion inverted, of what happened in our country. His thesis is soon stated: the responsibility for the collapse of their internal product, the economic crises and the banks lies with the technical government of President Monti, who has caused greater damage - says Senator Gasparri - than those he should have avoided. Of course, Senator Gasparri forgets that in January 2011 the spread was 173 points, which in November of the same year exceeded 520 points abundantly. Forget the permanent quarrels of that year within the majority and, especially between July and August, between the ministers Tremonti and Brunetta. Senator Gasparri forgets the rewriting of numerous financial maneuvers that have given the sign of a Berlusconi government rather to the blunder, of a divided majority and in confusion; and he also forgets that, in the context of a real economy that began to beat in the head, the banking world has managed - thanks to the sky - to withstand the storm, but having in belly Italian government debt securities to a greater extent than the prudence advised to the same credit institutions and has avoided that financial default that incalculable and tragic damages would have produced on the Italian economy and society. The fact of not letting me take my hand by demagogy and populism, under the motto "All against banks and strong powers" does not prevent me from seeing that even in the banking system there have been serious faults on the assessment of credit risk, there have been criminal behaviors in the relationship with customers less financially equipped and the inadequacy of administrators and management in facing business situations on the verge of irreversible crises. Of course, it is not all so the credit system in Italy and it is not all black at all, but it was also so; perhaps today less than yesterday, but certainly in some credit institutions there has been a serious underestimation of problems and above all of managerial management. It seems to us then that the road pursued with this unitary agenda is acceptable, because it is not only that of those who want the increase of punishments and a regulation that is rightly more stringent, that activates the ancillary penalties for irresponsible administrators (this, on the other hand, is the path of the Italian tradition, that is, of those who want to add cries to cries). It seems to us that, in addition to increasing penalties and seeking sanctions in the context of the European Union, there is a need to insist on and implement an effective dissemination of financial education, as provided for in this agenda, so that savers are able to know the risk profiles. It does not always seem to be known to everyone that high interest rates correspond to higher risks and that in any financial transaction, even the safest one, there is the risk of total or partial loss of invested capital. After Argentina, after Greece, after the Parmalat case and many other companies, we still have sections of the population - of the population that saves - which they consider to be risk-free financial investment. That is why, as the draft agenda states, rules are needed to prevent the placement of the most risky financial instruments at the retailer. The agenda presented, as the Undersecretary said, does not include Chapter V, in which it was intended to try to assist the banks together with the European Union in the work of cleaning up the balance sheets in relation to the deteriorated credits; we would have included it, but that does not prevent us from voting favourably and with conviction on the agenda under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u33	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we shall be voting in favour of this unitary agenda. We managed to do an effective synthesis work, as we had previously hoped, but we cannot hide that we are talking about an agenda and that the motions were born from the fact that at the last minute it had been removed by the decree-law saves banks the famous Sanga amendment, which extended not only the criterion for repayment to the subordinated bondholders of the Venetian banks, but above all emphasized the responsibilities of the directors. That amendment in the rescue decree would have guaranteed to make the transaction that was necessary at that time in time and in time. The motions and this unitary agenda, of which we appreciate the summary, are an instrument that intends to put in place an initiative aimed at promoting the effective possibility of charging those who have had the great responsibility for the enormous damage done to savers and we hope that this time the Government is quite prompt (not by chance, the adverb appears on the agenda "timely"). However, we cannot forget the historical story. We were told for a long time that the banking system was absolutely solid and that we should not be alarmed and then we found ourselves with the collapse of seven banks, others in a state of great difficulty, over 50 billion savings burned and at least another 50 billion socialized cost for tax favors, 200 inquisitions by the judiciary and the failure of the credit system. It is therefore obvious that a number of legislative, but even more political, initiatives must be put in place to allow the real protection of savers. We have seen another problem. In this regard, just look at CONSOB's 2017 pronunciation in which it punishes the directors and managers of Banca Etruria for having deceived the market. In this statement CONSOB states that all in all, it was not necessary to guarantee the truthfulness of the prospectus. So, as is rightly the case on the G1 agenda, we can put in place all the initiatives aimed at promoting the effective dissemination of financial education and ensuring the reading of the prospectus, but the problem remains for those who have to ensure the truthfulness of the prospectus itself. Here is also the problem of the lacked controls of Bank of Italy and CONSOB. Then there is the big chapter of the directors of these banks. European rules limit bankers' bonuses, but the problem is that when it's okay, they cash, but when it goes wrong, they don't pay. That is the problem we have faced. One in four advisors on the boards of listed Italian banks is not in order, i.e. they do not comply with the new ECB constraints, i.e. the rules introduced by the fourth European Directive of 2013, Directive 2013/36/EU, which sets out the rules to be followed. The same draft of the ministerial decree transposing the new criteria, as required by the Single Bank Text, gives clear indications. Despite this, one in four advisors is not in order, they do not respect the ECB's constraints in terms of good repute and professionalism. Finally, there is another important issue that I would like to mention. The Commission of Inquiry will now be set up, although I do not know where it will be able to arrive in these few weeks, but it is clear, as recent events show, that the other major problem is the combination, at times perverse, between banks and industry, with irreparable failures in credit management. We must therefore do much more. However, we hope that the G1 agenda will provide clear indications and that the Government will actually commit itself to prosecuting bank administrators, especially to better protect savers. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u36	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, my Group is looking positively at the G1 agenda, because it provides, for example, for the first point, for the implementation of a rule that leads directors, who are the subject of actions of responsibility accepted by the judge, to a sentence that is the one we request, namely the perpetual prohibition from public offices, from the exercise of the professions, from the management offices of legal persons and businesses and the inability to negotiate with the public administration. This is an appropriate penalty for the managers responsible for credit institutions and those who are called upon to respond in a responsible action. On the other hand, the assumption that there was convergence on a text shared in Parliament was justified, because we had recorded certain statements by Minister Padoan, during a hearing in the Finance Committee, who had stated that he was in favour of a rule clarifying that responsibilities in this field are certainly important and must be avoided first and, if necessary, sanctioned. This statement had been anticipated by a protest of the 5 Star Movement, with the display of signs bearing the inscription: "At home the guilty bankers!" Perhaps we will take a step in that direction with the proposed agenda. The government had already accepted, during the examination of the decree-law on Venetian banks, some agendas with which the Executive committed itself precisely in this direction, that is, towards the timely adoption of legislation on the responsibility of the directors of the failed banks, with particular regard to the responsibilities of the corporate leaders. In short, let us take another step in that direction; it is still small steps, but at least in the right direction. Other important agendas have been accepted by the Government, but we find none of those commitments either in this text or in other acts coming to the Senate. I am referring, for example, to a commitment to assess the adoption of measures to ensure fair treatment of all investors involved and penalised by illegal behaviour in the management of banks and which have caused the crisis in the banking system over the last two years. Alas, this commitment has remained a dead letter. It should be recalled in summary that in the case of the banks in Veneto the banking system - I stress this: the banking system - would have had to pay EUR 13 billion to cover the value of the deposits to be reimbursed through the interbank guarantee fund: as many as EUR 13 billion. The government then believed to save the banking system those 13 billion going to ask Italian citizens to bear the burden and the risk of paying from their own pocket up to 17 billion euros only for Veneto Banca and Popolare di Vicenza. Afterwards, the winding-up procedure took away the possibility of cheating savers to claim compensation in court. This is good to remember, because, even if there is a judgment providing for compensation, having given the Government to Banca Intesa the healthy part of the two banks, there will be no capital to attack in order to execute the same judgments. In short, the more than 200,000 small shareholders who had acquired, over the years, shares of the two banks have been given a blow of grace. Perhaps more than the responsibility of the administrators for bank cracks should be faced with the responsibility of the political class, but, I understand, this broadens the speech too much. In conclusion, in the light of the premises, I vote in favour of the 5 Star Movement on the unitary agenda. I would like to point out that point 3 of the mechanism, the one relating to financial education that is desired in terms of increasing the knowledge of financial instruments by citizens, agrees with us because the intervention itself aims to increase financial education in our country, which is needed. We believe, however, that it is appropriate to point out that this lack of education and knowledge of financial instruments cannot and must not be attributed to citizens, to small shareholders, to savers who have been cheated, because they were victims not of a careless purchase, but of scams and scams, of fraud in the budget, of obstacles to supervision, of updating, of which there was no financial knowledge that could have been remedied. It should be the State, with a functioning legal system, that gives them justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u39	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, our Group had agreed to the first-signed motion by Mr Augello, whom I thank, contributing to the drafting of that text. Today we are faced with a text that is proposed in a shared way and which we believe we must adhere to. We want to see this text as the beginning of a different policy on the part of the government, which we have seen so far as to be quite timid on this subject. The unfulfilled dynamics and outcomes of the famous Commission of Inquiry in this matter testify to the fact that there has been no will to delay, but certainly a restraining attitude on the part of the Government and the majority to enter into the heart of these issues. We are not attached to the judicial aspect of this affair, but we believe that the sanctioning of the current rules is not enough, not so much to punish the perpetrators of any criminal offence, but to guarantee compensation, not only economic, but also moral, to their victims. We therefore believe that this document represents a step forward towards a more effective control policy on what is happening in the banking system, which is also, of course, a consequence of a poor policy of preventing such phenomena, of closing so many eyes and turning to the other side, in order perhaps to avoid intercepting abnormal behaviors on the part of people close to the government summit. I repeat, today we hope that a different attitude will begin, given that the whole of Parliament welcomes and promotes the agenda for the vote. The present text also calls for measures to promote and effectively disseminate financial education to be implemented within the time limits laid down. Apart from the fact that this provision has been the law of the State for a year now, having been approved by both branches of Parliament, the fact that the Government is being urged or even, in its own proposal for a unitary draft, to include a reminder addressed to itself is significant of how slow and cumbersome these procedures are. Today, as today, the only financial education that has been able to mature the citizen, "unprovoked" on the technicality of many financial products, is the bitter experience. Many thousands of Italian citizens have had to educate themselves on the ground at the risk they have suffered in signing certain financial products and this has also produced an effect of knowledge. I believe that by now all Italians who go to banks or financial intermediaries to subscribe to new products are much more careful or, at least, have an anxiety to deepen the possible risks of the product they go to subscribe, which is not already a safeguard, but which certainly allows them a more cautious attitude. Such financial education on the ground cost "dead and wounded" but certainly it also produced a minimum of health cord around that incident. With the agenda presented, we asked for a revision of the deadline for access to the benefit of refreshment and we stressed, in the debate that preceded its final drafting, how indispensable it is - the Government, the political forces and the citizens know it - that the possible postponement of the deadline is preceded by a Community interlocation: not only by the evaluation of Community legislation as such, which would already be in itself an obstacle, but by the procedures, according to which the Italian Government must once again go to Europe, in order to ask for a derogation, if necessary, from the current regulations. Therefore, emphasis on procedures is important, because it allows the Government to activate this type of intercourse, indispensable in order to be able to postpone the deadline. We have then asked and obtained - and I thank the Government and the President of the 6th Commission for this - that we should not, at this time, talk about the new regulatory management of so-called deteriorated loans, because the Finance Committee is currently engaged in a specific resolution and we believe that it is correct (I thank the Government for having accepted this observation) to wait for the results of the related debate in order then to start a regulatory activity that can manage - in the way that the political forces will feel better - that the affair, which is extremely delicate in the national financial panorama. The so-called deteriorated loans, which then group together several types of loans (from those in distress to the dubious outcomes of the pitfalls), certainly have a strong impact on the bank's balance sheets and on the overall financial system, but they also have an extremely important refluence on the real economy, because at this moment when the effects of the crisis still remain - although it seems that the crisis is perhaps beginning to loosen its grip - they certainly have an important refluence on individual entrepreneurs. Therefore, these deteriorated claims cannot all be included in a single category to be thrown into the basket or to be entrusted to the so-called forced collectors outside the banking system, but must be managed with care within the same banking system, because the banks cannot discharge their responsibilities in this way, let alone entrust negatively to companies of only recovery the financial relationships that the individual companies hold with the system. For these reasons, we shall vote in favour of the G1 agenda, as proposed by the Government and other political forces. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u42	MARINO Mauro Maria (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, it can be said that for once we are dealing with the complex banking issue without the vice of an electoral strabism which, unfortunately, has often featured a confrontation on this important and sensitive issue. Without this form of strabism, the role of the saving citizen could be emphasized. In the case of these motions, everything starts from Decree-Law No. 99 of 2017, which represents a further decisive step for the stabilisation of the banking system, after the intervention made on the four banks put in resolution and after the precautionary recapitalisation of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena against the negative result of a stress test conducted under adverse conditions. Three different instruments were adopted in these cases, as was rightly pointed out earlier: in one case, the burden sharing, in another case, the recapitalisation and in the third, the compulsory administrative winding-up, but a fourth instrument, namely the bail in, was never applied, which would actually have made the citizen saver pay a number of extremely significant burdens. There would be a reflection - even if this is not the seat, but I want to introduce the issue in this House - on the relationship between the bail out and the bail in: the bail in is introduced so that it is no longer the taxpayer citizen who pays for interventions made on the individual banks. We have managed to avoid using this instrument, but a reflection on the balance between these two mechanisms is absolutely necessary. In fact, at the 6th Commission, there is a wide and in-depth analysis of the proposals to change the bail itself and this according to a principle that we should apply in Europe: fewer protests, more proposals, but above all there is, in the sense of being present at the tables, and therefore to address this issue at an upward stage, giving the Italian Parliament a role in the European legislative process. I think that this represents a qualitative leap forward for our Parliament. It was precisely in that place that this work, through the instrument of the resolution, should have arrived in this House. That will be an opportunity to make a serious and thorough reflection, involving the whole Senate and not just the Commission, on an important and sensitive issue. Today, however, basically, a good result has been achieved thanks to the combined arrangement and interaction between the parliamentary work and the willingness of the Government, which I thank here. Certainly, a unanimous vote, such as the one that is taking shape, has the important and significant advantage of strengthening the government's action in the dialogue with the European Union. First, I mentioned the three instruments used and now I want to remind myself, first of all, that when it came to the resolution procedure of four well-known banks, we thought of using the interbank deposit protection fund, but it was precisely the interlocation with the European Union that prevented us from doing so. Therefore, I think that acquiring a stronger solidity is also a qualitative leap in our ability to stand around those tables. Similarly, as is also apparent in the cognitive surveys, it is important to fight for a different assessment of market risk compared to credit risk also in favour of our banks. In any case, with this agenda we have achieved a double result, strengthening the Government in its inter-location with the European Union, but also - I think - making a significant contribution to re-starting a process of public confidence in the banking world, which is essential in the face of the Copernican revolution represented by the introduction of the bail in. As a Parliament, we have shown that we are able to meet these demands and have put a further brick in the construction of a building in which the spare citizen feels at home. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the authors of the motions to withdraw them. If there are no comments, I consider all motions withdrawn. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Augello, Bonfrisco, Barani, Cappelletti, De Petris, Guerra, Marino Luigi, Marino Mauro Maria, Quagliarello, Tosato and Zanda. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u46	LANZILLOTTA (PD). I have voted in favour of it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I take note of that. Appreciate the circumstances, I postpone the examination of the motions on the commemorative monuments of Christopher Columbus to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-883.ana.u47	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.30 p.m.
