ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 5 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u4	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, when I wish you a good morning and a good week, I would like to ask you to vote on the Minutes after checking the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u5	Good morning and good week to you and all your colleagues, Senator Castaldi. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.07 a.m. and resumed at 11.27 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u6	Let's resume our work. We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u9	PETROCELLI (M5S). Madam President, we are calling for the quorum to be checked again.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.28 a.m. and resumed at 11.53 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u11	The session is resumed. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u12	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u13	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation starts (11:54 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u14	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00827, tabled by Senator Giovanardi and other senators, 1-00833, tabled by Senator D'Alì and other senators, and 1-00834, presented by Senator Turano and other senators, on the commemorative monuments of Christopher Columbus. I call Senator Giovanardi to explain motion 827.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u15	Madam President, first of all I would like to pay tribute to the indigenous, aboriginal, native peoples of the United States, who rightly claim special attention to them for what they historically, over the centuries, have had to suffer in that country. However, in this very spirit, recognizing the significance of the sacrifices and exalting the contribution of the communities that are an integral part of the United States today, I believe that the problem is not to add, but to remove. Unfortunately, in fact, as we write in the motion and as is known, the question is not to recognize historical wrongs, which, among other things, both towards the Aboriginal communities, and towards the population that was torn from Africa, and against the Italians, have lasted for centuries and have involved great characters, such as Jefferson, Washington, Lincoln, until the Second World War, with Roosevelt who maintained segregation within the American army. The problem - I repeat - is not to recognize. It is a Taliban and fanatical rereading, woven with ignorance of historical facts and ideology, that wants to erase the historical context in which certain events took place, with an iconoclastic fury that resembles that of ISIS and the Taliban when they go to destroy the vestiges of the past in the countries they have occupied. It is evident that in our eyes - I am talking about Italy - the Colosseum had a specific terrifying function. It is clear that, according to today's parameters, the Roman emperors and Julius Caesar have carried out heinous and unacceptable actions, real genocides. We could talk about Napoleon, too. But it is clear that we must contextualize history and we cannot be so fanatical that we can even erase the works of art born in a given context. Since, as they say, one cherry pulls the other, I also refer to the last article that appeared on "The New Yorker" in which one wonders why the Palace of Italian Civilization was not demolished at the Eur. This is a truly singular question, which makes you think as far as you want to push through this damnatio memoriae of everything that has been the past. I am beginning to conclude, hoping that there will be unanimity on this issue. I know the government has put forward a proposal that I hope everyone will join. In our discussion the question of Christopher Columbus as a man of science, discoverer and courageous man, to whom we do not understand how to charge what happened in the following centuries, as well as the pride of the Italian-American community, who, at the end of the nineteenth century, after receiving infamous and inhuman treatments in the United States, sought his ransom through the rediscovery of the discoverer of that country and - if you want - also of Amerigo Vespucci, who then gave the name to the Americas. Today those statues are destroyed and contested and, even in Los Angeles, the municipal councils want to remove the figure of Christopher Columbus from the public. This removal humiliates the 10% contribution made by Italian American citizens to the development of that great country. It is a totally wrong path, which, as I said before, risks, for contagion, leading to a totally misleading rereading of history. For these reasons, we have tabled this motion. If the Government acts as a mediator, we will gladly join, to give a strong message to the President and Congress of the United States, as well as to our community: Italy is close to the millions and millions of people who have contributed to the creation of America of Italian American origin and - above all - it is alongside those who are fighting a battle of truth on this delicate topic. [[Applause from Senator Comrade]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u16	I call Senator Cassinelli to explain motion No 833.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u17	Madam President, before I go into the subject under discussion, allow me, once again, to address your courtesy to point out to you that the microphone system I share with my colleague in my seat continues - alas - to be maintained. I think it's the longest maintenance operation in history. I would ask you, Madam President, to listen to the relevant offices so that we can finally find out whether, before the end of this parliamentary term, we will have our microphone back. Thank you. A few days after the re-enactment of the date when Christopher Columbus landed in America - on October 12, 1492 - we feel we share the content of the motions condemning the furious attack on the symbols depicting the Genoese navigator. The commitments made in a House of Parliament towards a great country that has always been a friend of Italy, like the United States of America, have a symbolic value and can only move through the channels of diplomacy. Here, however, today's debate - together with the unanimous condemnation of people of common sense of all forms of violence - can be a useful tool for countering and marginalizing the ignorance of those who want to eliminate the symbols of the past. History is not erased and above all it is not rewritten, in the absence of research and analysis weighted and well documented. Reading now, after five centuries, the story, the actions and the thought of Christopher Columbus, with an in-depth social network (once it would have been said from sports bar) is an attitude that leaves much perplexed. However, we cannot fail to note that this superficiality and this facery have led to concrete damage to places and symbols of American history. We must respond to irresponsibility with the culture of historical reconstruction and awareness of the facts. Historical tradition attributes to my Genoese citizen Christopher Columbus the discovery of America. In fact, we know very well that the Americas have been inhabited for centuries and that when Columbus and his men landed on the shores of today's Bahamas they found indigenous peoples to confront. If the Spanish ships, led by a great Genoese, had not arrived on the American coast at the end of the fifteenth century, there would have arrived other expeditions a few years later, as it actually was, and the confrontation-crash with the indigenous peoples - which must be read with the cultural instruments of those times, not with those of today - would have been the same that they had with them Colombo and his Spanish sailors. After all, the great Genoese was imprisoned and tried for alleged violence or killing of Native Americans. He was acquitted and judged innocent by the judges and by the codes of his time. So it makes no sense to celebrate summary processes, five hundred years away from the facts and with today's codes, as someone demagogically would like to do. He did not die rich and did not make great gains in harm to someone from his navigations, which for a Genoese is at least anomalous, nor from the discovery that has changed the world. It was celebrated mainly because its contribution to colonization was considered very important - a term that today is read by the most obviously not positive - of the United States of America. Those Americans who are now protesting against the symbols linked to the discovery and conquest of their land by the first European pioneers, end up trampling their own history, which is that of a great hardworking people, made of courageous pioneers and inventors, just like Columbus. However, several American cities are canceling the Columbus Day celebrations to prevent and avoid possible clashes and violence by the Oltranzist fringes. Celebrating it today, however, would mean celebrating the dream of every American - from the revelation of the new world to the invention of Google's algorithm - that can take place in an extraordinary nation, for five hundred years, also thanks to the discovery of Christopher Columbus. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Vattuone to explain motion No 834.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u18	Mr President, I fully share the words of my previous colleagues, Giovanardi and Cassinelli, in the illustration of the motions because in American society a harsh debate has developed on the preservation of the historical memory of Christopher Columbus. It must therefore be clear immediately how we consider the figure of the Genoese navigator an emblem of the city of Genoa and a leader of navigation that is not only a cultural heritage of our nation but a cultural heritage of humanity, being a pioneer of the new world. The figure of a great man, emblem of navigation and scientific discoveries, must be reaffirmed. Christopher Columbus is, moreover, for the Italian and Italian-American community a symbol of courage and initiative, which we have the duty to defend and support. We owe it to the generations of Italian-American migrants who arrived in America after Christopher Columbus and those who will come in the future. We agree in particular with the words of Alberto Milani, president of the Italian-American Chamber of Commerce (the largest in the world, from an international point of view), who said: The explorer is a modern Ulysses, it is the symbol of our strength of will, individual initiative and curiosity for the new. Universal values that have always made the Italian community proud and have helped to build our American dream by facing the most difficult moments with them. The critical positions on the figure of Christopher Columbus have reached an unacceptable level, producing iconoclast initiatives that, initially directed against the statues of the Southern generals and slaves defeated in the civil war, have targeted statues and representations. Some cases have been mentioned and I do not repeat them. It should be recognized, however, that President Trump, precisely in planning the celebration of the Columbus day, wanted to express a strong support to the figure of Christopher Columbus, even with a feeling of esteem and friendship towards Italy (it happened just a few days ago). This must be appreciated and certainly recognized. We believe the figure of Christopher Columbus to be significant in American history, because, contrary to the vision of those who support the protest, it has made a strong and positive contribution to the maturation of democracy, to the fight against all forms of discrimination and to cultural and social integration, through the representations of the European peoples present on American territory. Therefore, with this motion we ask that, through our own consular representations, the Italian-American community be supported in its protest and that, because of the bond of friendship that has always distinguished the dialogue between Italy and the United States, a correct reading of the meaning and value that historical figures like Christopher Columbus carry with them. This support is determined above all by initiatives, in collaboration with the Italian American communities, with the study centres and universities, aimed at deepening a figure that deserves, through historical knowledge, maximum integrity and absolute dignity of memory. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u19	I declare the debate open. Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u20	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as a Ligurian citizen and an Italian citizen, I can only endorse with conviction a motion that commits the Government, through its diplomatic network, to enhance and support in the United States the figure of the great explorer Christopher Columbus. As you know, recent episodes of intolerance towards some symbols of American history and the ensuing debate in society, which has arrived in Italy on the pages of the newspapers, have also struck several statues depicting the famous Genoese navigator, which in the United States is considered an icon by the Italian Americans, who celebrate its memory on the second Monday of October. In Baltimore, Detroit, Houston and other smaller cities, demonstration actions have been registered, while in Los Angeles the city council voted in favour of a motion for the cancellation of Columbus day and even in New York is debating whether to remove the famous statue placed in front of the entrance to Central Park. The first celebration of Columbus day dates back to 1792, when the St. Tammany Company organized a series of celebrations to commemorate the 300th anniversary of the discovery of America. The same feast was repeated in 1892, recognized in 1937 by President Roosevelt and finally, in 1971, declared national feast by President Richard Nixon, to be celebrated with parades and celebrations in all cities of the country. Remembering the figure of Christopher Columbus, therefore, is an act that in the United States has an ancient history, with a strong symbolic value. The same former president Obama, in 2012, on the occasion of his speech for the celebrations of the Columbus Day, emphasized how Christopher Columbus was an example that inspired generations of Italian immigrants, pushing them to follow in his footsteps, then celebrating the countless contributions that many generations of Italian Americans gave to the American nation. And Christopher Columbus is also a symbol for part of the Hispanic community, claiming an unfounded Spanish Columbus and the contribution of the Crown of Spain to the discovery of the American continent. The most recent historiography on Christopher Columbus - this has to be said - reveals a questionable personality, stained with violent and cruel behavior in the relationship with the natives of the lands discovered by him. An image, therefore, quite different from the classical iconography that we have all studied in the school books. The slave trade, according to some historians, was also initiated by him. This has led, in recent years, to consider himself a symbol of oppression against native peoples and their extermination. However, it seems clear to me that operations like these, and I am referring to the removals of symbols and statues, do not make any sense. What our diplomacy will have to do, in the United States, is to strive to reread the figure of Columbus with the necessary balance, in books and school programs, through academic and cultural initiatives, without rhetorical excesses on the one hand and demonization on the other, but remembering on every occasion that Columbus is part of American history and represents the memory of the Italians of America, who in Columbus Day see the celebration of Italian pride and success in America. Christopher Columbus is the symbol of the special relationship between Italy and the USA, a lively and vibrant relationship that we all want to preserve and carry forward. No one denies the horrors of the conquistadores and the tragedy that struck the native and indigenous population, but to erase Christopher Columbus, in obedience to the political correctness, is frankly ridiculous. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Quagliariello]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u21	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u22	Madam President, I am speaking briefly because then the explanation of vote on our motion, which will be taken by Senator D'Ali, will express our position even more clearly. I would, however, like to say something about a notation. I don't know the family tree of de Blasio, current mayor of New York, but the name doesn't need any particular heraldic research to write it, deservedly, to an Italian ancestry. In the many ethnic groups that have contributed to forming the history, life and people of the United States of America, the name de Blasio certainly does not belong to British, Irish or Central American components. Well, De Blasio, along with others, has launched this battle that I sincerely call ridiculous before it is dangerous. As in Italy - but this is another story - they would like to rewrite not history or its interpretation (each, having knowledge and qualities, can write books and make conferences), but even the architecture of our country, destroying symbols and monuments that do not have an ideological value but are the testimony of an era. I, however, want to acknowledge the fact that, while the original Italian de Blasio, mayor of New York, participated in this campaign of contestation of symbols and statues that see in Christopher Columbus, for various reasons that it is not necessary to emphasize, the main symbol, President Trump (of which I also do not know the heraldic and the origins, but certainly Trump does not have Italian origins and this is quite evident) said in these days: In the Columbus day we honor the experienced navigator and man of faith, whose brave enterprise has united two continents and has inspired many others, against any doubt or adversity. President Trump has therefore generously renewed and reiterated the expressions of friendship between the United States of America and Italy, testified also by these bonds, ethnic-historical that are of original nature, because Christopher Columbus, perhaps sailing in the hope of going elsewhere, as we well know, came across those lands that later became America. I would therefore recommend to deepen a little more this Trump, which is often denigrated in its daily statements, sometimes a little colorful, but also warm in their generosity, such as those on Christopher Columbus and on friendship with Italy. In fact, on the occasion he reiterated the privileged relationship with our country, talking about Italy as a strong ally and valuable partner in the promotion of peace and prosperity, proving to appreciate Columbus and the Italian people. A few months ago the then president of the Council Renzi went to a lunch with the then president Obama, with representatives of the Italian people as many others, Benigni, the director Sorrentino and Nicolini, then mayor of Lampedusa, who appeared more in America and on RAI 3 than in Lampedusa, where despite the presence on RAI 3 she arrived third in the municipal elections (she could run for those of New York). There is also Columbus, luckily, and therefore Trump, despite the visits, frankly more folkloristic than of value that Renzi organized, carrying Nicolini and Benigni, found these reasons. I would also like to say to those who fight over the past in Italy and America that they should also change the name of the American continent, because here we talk about Colombo, but America - here there is the illustrious Deputy Minister Giro who is engaged in various battles, but I see him in good health despite the dedication with which he devotes himself to causes on which we have different opinions, but in mutual respect - takes the name from Amerigo Vespucci, another well-known navigator who circumnavigated the American Continent. From there came the name of America, as Venezuela takes its name from Venice and I could cite many other examples. Therefore, if the de Blasio line or others win, not only will they have to remove the statues of Colombo, but they will also have to find another name, because the name of Amerigo Vespucci could be "polluting." They're gonna have to call each other another. I say this to invite everyone, in Italy and in the world, to avoid touching the ridiculous. Then, on the story and on what happened, I would have understood if the redskins were angry, but not de Blasio. If the pilgrims were angry, the indigenous peoples, for what they suffered - I see the deputy minister Giro nod - would also have their reasons: there have been so many events of ethnocides and massacres of the indigenous American peoples. If that were the case, I would understand, but de Blasio, honestly, leave Columbus alone. Marconi - to come to more recent centuries - has also been celebrated many times by the American continent, often more by Canada than by the United States of America, who, de Blasio is not offended, are called so, "America" in honor of Amerigo Vespucci (we do not let people know if not someone gets angry in Washington or New York). Well Marconi did experiments, from Canada, the most important of which then opened the way to modern telecommunications, those that will allow us, perhaps, through some social networks or other channels, to tell de Blasio: get down on the planet earth, remember your ancestors and pay homage to Italy and Christopher Columbus. [[Applause from Senators Rizzotti and Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u23	The debate is closed. I would like to say that the G1 unitary agenda has been presented, which has already been printed and distributed. I also inform you that the motions have been withdrawn. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u24	Madam President, I am in favour of the G1 agenda. The Columbus day has consolidated over the years the character of celebration dedicated to the Italian-American community in the United States and its contribution to the development of the country. It is celebrated with important events, such as parades, parades and public speeches, in large cities such as New York, San Francisco and Chicago, and widespread popular participation by Italian Americans and supporters of the Italian way of life of overseas. Cristoforo Colombo has therefore become the first historical symbol of the progressive integration and affirmation, first of all of our migrants and, with the passing of generations, of an Italian community increasingly present at the apical levels in society, politics, economy and culture of the United States of America. In the United States there has been a debate for some years, fueled by environments related to the Native Americans, which aims to abolish the Columbus day, to replace it with Days of the Native People, in the light of a re-reading of the American history after 1492, according to which the expedition of Columbus would subdue the indigenous peoples, making them de facto slaves and stained with serious episodes of violation of human rights. This is a debate that also affects other states on the American continent. However, I would like to remind you that, in the 1930s, to propose the abolition of Columbus day was the Ku klux klan, in hatred of the Italian immigrant population. This debate has risen at national level, particularly in recent weeks, intertwining with episodes of vandalism against statues dedicated to Columbus in different locations in the United States and binding itself to pages still controversial in American history, on which there is periodically a close debate. Even in Argentina, a few years ago, there was a similar controversy, and the statue of Colombo, which was in front of the Rosada House, was actually moved and, in its place, was placed the statue of an indigenous leader. In recent years some municipalities have decided to replace the celebrations of the Columbus day, the subject of a presidential proclamation each year, with the Day of Indigenous Peoples. In Los Angeles, however, thanks to the commitment of the local Italian-American associations, the Municipal Council established a Day of Italian-American Cultural Heritage, which will be celebrated every year at that Town Hall, also on October 12th. In the face of these events, there is a strong mobilization of the local Italian-American associations, such as the Order of Sons of Italy or the National Italian American Foundation, as well as the active attention of the elected representatives of the Italian community resident in the United States, as parliamentarians, members of the General Council of Italians abroad (CGIE) and of the Comites. In the context of an internal American political framework, characterised by heterogeneous positions on the theme of Columbus' memory, the very clear and clear position of the President of the United States is inserted, expressed through the act of proclamation of the festivity, published last Friday. President Trump wanted, on the one hand, to honour the historical figure of Christopher Columbus and the importance of his enterprises, emphasizing the courage and ambition of the explorer, as well as the impact that his work has had on the course of history and development of the United States of America. At the same time, however, the President wanted to put at the centre of his message the sentiments of esteem, appreciation and friendship towards Italy, the homeland of Colombo, defined as a strong ally and valorous partner in the promotion of peace and prosperity in the world. Finally, Trump recalled the vital contribution made by the Italian-American community to the culture, economic development and society of the United States. Yesterday the demonstrations were held regularly in the major American cities, without any significant protests. In New York, in particular, the presence of Mayor de Blasio and Governor Cuomo, next to the Ambassador of Italy, testify to the respect for the historical memory of Colombo and the friendship and closeness of the American institutions towards our country. While recognizing the uniquely internal character of the affair linked to the maintenance or not of Columbus day in some U.S. municipalities, Farnesina has constantly followed the issue with great attention, as she did when the same question arose in Argentina, when she obtained that the statue of Columbus was not taken away and hidden, but was placed in front of the new airport in Buenos Aires. Minister Alfano himself, who in recent days expressed his appreciation for the words of President Trump, had previously spoken about acts of vandalism to the detriment of the statues of Columbus, emphasizing the historical and symbolic character of the Italian explorer. On Friday 22 September, on the occasion of his presence in New York for the work of the United Nations General Assembly, he personally went to pay homage to Christopher Columbus in Columbus Circle, in the heart of Manhattan, in front of the entrance to Central Park, where the statue of the most famous navigator in history stands. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation has also, through the Italian Embassy in Washington and the extensive Italian consular network in the country, expressed its closeness to the Italian American communities and assured support and participation in the demonstrations in honor of Christopher Columbus, which, like every year, represent a moment of celebration for all those who recognize themselves in the cultural and sentimental appeal exercised by Italy. The figure and the enterprise of Christopher Columbus have also been repeatedly recalled by the Italian ambassador Armando Varricchio on the occasion of various public interventions such as, for example, during the reception hosted by the mayor of New York on the occasion of the day of Italian cultural heritage or on more confidential occasions and, last, in the reception organized for the celebration of the Italian American identity (in the days that preceded the official proclamation of Columbus day by Donald Trump), in the presence of numerous members of the American Congress, high officials of the White House and advisors of the President and the main Italian American organizations. On such occasions the ambassador stressed that Americans, Italians and Italian Americans should all feel proud of the extraordinary contribution made by Christopher Columbus, who, with his expedition, joined separate shores until then, promoting the exchange of ideas and cultures. The common commitment of Italian institutions and Italian-American associations is therefore to raise awareness, in the most appropriate ways and under the most appropriate circumstances, both the governmental bodies and the civil society of the United States on the profound meaning that throughout the country the Italian-American communities attribute to the Columbus day, as a day of recognition of the contribution of Italian immigrants to the development of the United States and the friendship between our two peoples. In addition, as Gianni Riotta wrote yesterday on "La Stampa", history cannot become - I believe - a clava for the chronicle. Christopher Columbus cannot be judged with current criteria: he was a son of his time. We all know what happened in what is now North America and Latin America: slavery, massacres, dispersion of the Amerindians, especially death due to the contagion with our diseases. It is the significance of European colonization, which has its own history that remains a reality to deal with, but it is not exorcised by breaking down statues. In an age of identity obsessions, everything is reused and manipulated, even the history of the past, in the name of today's cultural or ideological battles. History must be read and discussed in the context in which it took place and not re-read and revised for political or ideological purposes. This is done by totalitarianism, like the fascism that revived the myth of imperial Rome to justify its colonial policy; today's fundamentalists do so, who read the pages of the sacred books in a literalistic way to justify their nefariousness and dream of a mythical golden age that today becomes nightmare and that, among other things, never existed. History is always contradictory, linked to life and cannot be essentialized, that is, frozen to immutable elements. Christopher Columbus made a journey that no one wanted or knew how to make and landed on lands where millions of natives lived who had their history and culture. The meeting - we know - was not happy at the beginning and for centuries there were robberies and lootings, but from there came the present America, a mosaic of peoples who, in the end, mixed and reworked their culture. It's different countries if you look closely at yourself. It is right to have an opinion on these events, but not to judge with the politics of emotions, typical phenomenon of our times, in which historical reasoning replaces the emotional wave based on today's criteria, of course, more just than our European ancestors thought, but not historicalized. It is not a matter of justification, but of relocation. Colombo is the symbol of our communities abroad, much more felt - we have to say - abroad than in the Homeland. On the contrary, it is still being discussed in Europe whether it is Italian or Spanish. For the Italian Americans it represents the forerunner, the first among them to land on those coasts, but they do not think like him. Like all Americans today, they are sensitive to the rights of minorities, and even the Italian Americans suffered the effects of a difficult meeting with the United States of their time. Today they are recognized as an important part of the community of the United States, but the beginning - we know - was difficult: nothing comparable to what happens to the Amerindians, but still difficult. This is the door of every mixture, clash and encounter together. Today we are all more aware of the fact that we must respect everyone and estimate the culture of all, more encounter than confrontation, but history is not erased by throwing down statues and memories. There was a time when Europeans believed that they were superior to all human beings; not anymore. There was a time when they thought slavery was right; not anymore. It is the fruit of that encounter that lasted centuries and millennia. Among the sufferings the emotional and legal unity of the human being is built. History is not the subject of courts, but of common consciousness always in the making. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Di Biagio and Zin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u25	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda. I would like to appeal to my fellow Members: since we have just over half an hour, I would ask you to contain the speeches so that we can vote this morning. Without prejudice to your freedom, considering that 12 October is approaching, it would make little sense not to vote today.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u28	COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, thank you for your appeal to this House, in which our Group fully recognizes itself. I will therefore try to be extremely synthetic. The reasons why we were among the promoters of the first-signed motion by my colleague Carlo Giovanardi and the reasons why we shared many of the arguments that the other motions brought to the attention of the Assembly were all widely taken up in the intervention of the representative of the Government. From a political point of view, I believe that the representative of the Government has done well to take up the considerations of the President of the United States of America last week and even better to recall those values of historiographic freedom which are essential values of the liberal, democratic and civil conception of historiography. Christopher Columbus certainly belongs - it is one of the highest symbols - to our national identity. An identity that is not so narrow, so petty and so instrumental that it is sacrificed or expendable to the demands of political correctness or pursuit of this or that third worldism. Historiographic freedom is an indispensable freedom of opinion, and precisely in the name of it, together with his friend Carlo Giovanardi, we were pleased that the Senate Assembly could have on the agenda the examination of these acts in so few days. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u31	Mr Gotor (Art.1-MDP). Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I join with the regret of what has happened recently in the United States, where hundreds of statues depicting Christopher Columbus have suffered damage and there has been news that many city administrations have called for its removal. These monuments were erected by will and thanks to the funding of the Italian-American community, hundreds of thousands, indeed, millions of migrants who, between the nineteenth and the first half of the twentieth century, crossed the Ocean to move to live in the United States, suffering, most of the times, hateful humiliations and racial discrimination, during a long history of difficult but successful integration. It therefore appears completely paradoxical and is indeed a wrong target that are the subject of a vulgar campaign of disinformation and hatred precisely the statues of the great Genoese explorer, accused of being the cause and symbol of the persecutions suffered by native natives in the following centuries. In the same way, it seems to me a sign of singular obtuseness to demand the abolition of the Columbus Day, a day of national celebration since 1937, which represents a moment of joyful celebration for the Italian community in the United States. The political use of history is always an abuse and these figures must be delivered to free research and history books. It is therefore desirable that the Italian Government activates its diplomatic and cultural representations, on the one hand, to promote the historical knowledge of Colombo and, on the other hand, to safeguard his memory, statues and the feast as a perpetual sign of friendship between the Italian and American people, since his figure represents a tangible patrimony of humanity. [[Applause from the Group Art.1-MDP and Senator Compagna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u34	LIUZZI (GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI)). Madam President, in announcing the GAL Group's vote in favour of the G1 unitary agenda, which included, among other things, the content of the first-signed motions, Giovanardi, D'Alì and Turano, I would like to make a few very brief comments, as you, Madam President, have requested at this stage. And the superficiality of approach to history that, bypassing historical sources as well as the value of tradition, myth and its formation over the centuries, unfortunately leads to not exactly upbuilding consequences, such as the episodes that are happening in the United States and the Latin American Continent. This is all the more true in view of the role that Christopher Columbus played in bringing forward and contributing to the redemption of those populations and the formation of a democratic conscience and therefore of the awareness of being indigenous, therefore bearers of undisputed, unique and authentic values. In condemning the inconsulted acts of vandalism towards the monuments and of distortion of historical truth for the demonstrations taking place in the United States, I reiterate the negative judgment on the history made at home to please first oneself and then certain circles of citizens who, in the fomenting of controversy, in the name of human rights end up revoking the ostracism of history, ideological racism and negationism. It is recent and must also be stigmatized on our part the position of the President of the Chamber Boldrini on the need to break down the building of the fascist era. Unfortunately, President Boldrini's remarks are in line with the reasons for over-chism, when in fact that type of building today is a school of architecture all over the world. The facts must therefore be considered separate from the testimonies also of a cultural temperie that is certainly appreciable and has brought great advantages to the history of architecture. The social networks, which in particular on the American continent play a fundamental role in establishing relationships a thousand miles away between the various users, unfortunately favour this feeling contrary to the historical truth and, unfortunately, in the links of the great network, our Christopher Columbus is also finished. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, PPI, RP).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u37	Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I will not go into the subject of the historical debate precisely because it is a debate between historians and last week we recalled in this House how important the freedom of historical research is and how to respect all the positions that can boast in the academic world what we call the supporting pieces, the documentary pieces. All this is academic practice, and I believe that giving us the right to have a truth in our pocket about our history and about Colombo is an act of great academic presumption, which we cannot afford. It is clear that Christopher Columbus represents an identity symbol for our Italian American communities, being he from Genoa. However, we know that the expedition was possible thanks above all to the support of another state that was not Italy and is therefore part of a common history of the Mediterranean, European and world, like all the stories that dot the past of humanity, evaluated as community and community. I wonder, however, why attention should be paid to our Italian-American communities in this House as a result of such striking facts and, on the other hand, no problem has been raised as a parliamentary community when, for example, cuts have been made in previous stability laws for the activities of spreading our language and our culture around the world. This problem, in fact, before being a political problem, is cultural. It is useless that we write motions in which we politically commit the Government to act within the framework of the legislation in force in the United States: it is a speech promoting our language and our culture and, therefore, of support to our Italian American communities through the network of embassies, consulates and cultural institutions, which are fundamental to ensure that we do not get to this point. I wonder then why there was no outrage and why Deputy Minister Giro did not make his voice heard loud and powerful when these cuts were made. In the 7th Commission, a survey is under way, in collaboration with the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad, which I hope will come to the vote on a resolution this week or Thursday of next week, which calls for financial and human resources to be allocated, including through a reorganization of functions within our consulates and embassies, cultural institutions, our schools of Italians abroad, our departments in foreign universities. I remember that even in the United States, in Berkeley, but not only there, we have a beautiful Italian department. This is so that in these countries there is also a better image of Italy. If we leave the promotion and therefore the evaluation of our image to cultural experiments such as the TV movie "I Soprano", it is clear that we will struggle a lot to counter certain phenomena. I agree very much with the Undersecretary when he says that history does not rewrite by breaking down the statues. But it is not rewritten and certain causes are not even perjured by apostrophating the Native Americans as red pennae. [[Applause from Senators Bulgarelli, Bignami and Quagliariello]] When you carry out a cause, perhaps apostrophating the Native Americans as red pens doesn't exactly bring water to our mill, because in this sense I see all the colonialist and neocolonialist dynamics that you wanted to see in those people of the lower communities. Beyond that, we are asking whether it is possible to vote on the G1 agenda separately. There are points on which we could agree and there are others on which we will abstain, and not because we do not consider it important to support our Italian American communities, but because we find them of little use. Subject to this request, our vote, if we proceed by separate parties, will be in favour of certain points and abstentions on others. On the other hand, if the G1 agenda is voted in its entirety, we will abstain. [[Applause from Senators Bulgarelli and Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u40	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we have welcomed the proposal on the G1 unitary agenda and, therefore, we confirm the withdrawal of our motion because we agree on that act of direction. I now announce that we have taken such a decision in view of the complexity of the text, so we are against the split vote. Having said that, I am very pleased that the Senate in its entirety or almost received the alarm cry launched by our communities of Italians resident in the United States of America following a whole series of negative interventions on the memory of Christopher Columbus and not only (in our motion it was also referred to Italo Balbo). In short, in a country like the United States of America that has always, since its birth, interpreted to the maximum the criteria of innovation and modernity and the homage to the great explorers and genes not only of art, but also of engineering and progress, and where still today all the activities of innovation are widely encouraged, always in the perspective of promoting the progress of humanity, we have noted with great cultural concern the fact that there could be a historical revisionism oriented perhaps more to political motivations than objective of consideration - as Vice Minister Giro rightly said - of a great innovator like Christopher Columbus, naturally inserted in the context of the time in which he lived. We are pleased that Parliament is adopting a motion which we have also immediately raised on behalf of a very large part of the public through a number of press articles. In addition to those released in the last few days, I remember that in the past weeks many Italian newspapers such as "Il Tempo" (Time) have taken over the matter by urging us parliamentarians and the institutions all. I am pleased with what Vice Minister Giro has told us - and that, moreover, we have read in the chronicles of these days of anniversary - that even the American institutions, with President Trump at the head, have had the opportunity to emphasize the strong link existing between the Italian community and the history of the United States of America and other American nations absolutely positive, recalling its important contribution given to their economy, culture and their overall development. I also remember how our diplomatic institutions and Italian cultural institutions have been working in recent days, aligning themselves - even before we approved the agenda - with the demands that came from the whole of Parliament, promoting a series of positive actions - in our opinion - on cultural reconciliation. We really risked - I was in the United States in August and I could see it - to see compromised the image of the extraordinary union that always existed between Italian sentiments and the feelings of the North American people. I must acknowledge the associations that represent the Italians of America present throughout the North American territory - as the vice minister Giro recalled - that they were the first to react with demonstrations, naturally peaceful and absolutely civil, before the City House of New York and in other important places of the United States of America. We confirm, therefore, the accession to the unitary agenda, which we consider opportune also in the times - as you, President, has emphasized - because it is approved promptly before the anniversary of 12 October, as well as important for Italianity, which must always be defended and in any case. Italianity is the history of Italy, even within the walls of our home, because someone would like, once again, to review the history of our country in the key of political exploitation. The monuments of history cannot be subject to the odds of the chronicle. That is history, while that of today, what we write is chronicle, hoping that we can make tomorrow become, itself, history. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u43	Mr Spilabotte (PD). Madam President, Vice-Minister, colleagues and colleagues, today the attention to the politically correct "Cristoforo Colombo," the discoverer of the New Continent, even gets on the bench; a founding and statesman father such as Benjamin Franklin and George Washington, to whom even the federal capital is dedicated, or like the beloved mayor of New York, the Italian American Fiorello La Guardia, whose name was given to the main airport of the City. Columbus, for a long time venerated, is today considered an imperialist colonizer, who has mercilessly exterminated the indigenous peoples of the Caribbean and the Americas. It is like saying that the monuments to Franklin and Washington are to be demolished because they owned slaves, which today would make them horrify, but which at the time was considered normal. Or we also tear down the statues of Julius Caesar, great leader, but also exterminator of the Gauls. It is wrong to judge Colombo with today's principles, having lived in 1400 and, in fact, the statue dedicated to him reminds the Italian Americans of their contribution in building New York and other cities, and it is the tribute of Italian immigrants to the cities they have built for their part. The Italian-American community shields around Colombo, considering it to be its own distinctive symbol. The Italian American associations have already manifested in the different cities, ensuring that they are ready to fight to avoid the removal of monuments to the Genoese navigator. Among other things, in the celebrations of the Columbus day, they also cashed Trump's support and rose in a choral, heartfelt, powerful defense. They recalled - as the Deputy Minister said well - how decades ago it was the Ku Klux Klan who protested against Colombo, symbol of the Italians, considered inferior ethnicity. We Italians, who have not fared the country, should learn from them to defend our history. And we do well in this House today to discuss the motions under discussion. When men, with their own symbols, are delivered to the books there is little to remove: we will lose a piece of history. There is only to study and understand and traces, even physical, can help. History and monuments remind the new generations of the contributions our ancestors have made and history teaches us the past, how to face the future and, in other words, not to repeat the mistakes of the past. Let's leave the statues to history. Politics think about the future. For these reasons, the Democratic Party Group will vote in favour of the joint agenda, fully agreeing on the premises and the arrangements. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Di Biagio and Panizza.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u44	Senator Montevecchi asked for a separate vote on the G1 agenda. Senator, I invite you to specify which parties you propose to vote on separately. Montevecchi (M5S). Madam President, I would ask that the four commitments be voted on separately. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The proposal is clear. Senator D'Alì has already expressed himself in the opposite direction, as has Senator Russo. I put to the vote the motion for a separate vote on the G1 agenda, tabled by Senator Montevecchi. It's not approved. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the G1 agenda. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senator Giovanardi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u47	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Madam President, please ask the House for attention. There was a strange air in those first days of October in Longarone. People whispered all the time, but we didn't understand what, at least we kids. I remember a speech heard like this, at night, between Mom and Dad, a speech made when we children - there were five of us - were not present. I remember that night Mom said to Dad: "Wouldn't it be better to send the children to Belluno?" I stopped to eavesdrop. Why did Mom want to send us away? What did we do? Dad's voice answered: "What do you want me to care? If the dam falls, Belluno also leaves; if we are to die, better do it all together." It was too hard and strong, at least for me, incomprehensible. I was looking at the dam and I was thinking, "How can he hurt us and kill These, President, are the words of Micaela, a child who survived the Vajont disaster. Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address everyone and ask the House to join in the memory of the 54th anniversary of the Vajont disaster, celebrated yesterday in the places of memory with the deposition of the crowns and the solemn Mass at the monumental shrine of the victims of the Vajont. It was celebrated yesterday in the silence of the pain that still accompanies the few survivors alive and all those in those places who continued to live after the tragedy of October 9, 1963: 1,910 dead, a generation swept away, countries erased from the fury of a wave that passed the dam bringing with it only death and despair; no compensation to the survivors. That dam, President, is still there, intact, but the mountain has rebelled against the greed of men aware of what was happening, and certainly not careless. President, I asked for respect for the victims buried in the monumental cemetery through a contribution that helps volunteers in the care and maintenance of that sacred place. I have been asking for years, for the entire legislature: the time has come to respond. [[Applause from the Mixed and PD Groups and Senator Bulgarelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u50	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the newspapers and on social media we are talking about Senator Gasparri who is here with us, because of the tweeting with Roberto Saviano. The Vice President attacked Fazio and the writer called him "prejudiced" and the latter promised legal consequences. I'm not going to talk about the reasons for the fight, and I'm not going to participate in the controversy. I would just like to address Senator Gasparri, who is present in this House and therefore listens to me. I'd like to ask him why, but above all, it's really worth it. I am absolutely certain that you are neither foolish nor unsubstantiated. You are a navigated and experienced politician; you have held important positions, among the most important in the State, and you have been in the world of politics for a long time. She, however, is also the same man who has abandoned himself to easy polemics, especially on Twitter, and not only with people like Saviano, but also with a singer, with artists, politicians and even a minor. So I'm asking you why. On the assumption that you are not at all unsubstantiated and are perfectly able to discern what you do and how, what is the reason why you sometimes - I use this term - clap? Does it follow the strategy of good or bad, if we talk about it? Doesn't it bother you that the tones of political communication have been so down? Today we are witnessing a rather misguided theater with institutional positions that use turbulent speech in the Chamber and in television broadcasts, with political and public representatives who can even detach themselves from their own dialect... PRESIDENT. - The debate is Excuse me, Senator Bencini, but this doesn't seem like a topic to propose at the end of the work, honestly. We can't argue with the opinion between senators. Outside, you have all the space to do it. I urge you to conclude quickly. Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). President, what interests me and I would like to stress is that every time a politician speaks and writes, at that moment justifies the thought of those millions of Italians who think that we are a sleeve of incompetent, overpaid and spoiled, or rather "vitalized." If we speak and act like everyone else, if we do not offer anything better than anyone else and show some dignity, competence and dedication, then why do we earn more than other categories? Senator Gasparri represents me in part and represents men and women as I represent him. Can't we just moderate our tones a little? Does the exchange of ideas have to be so literal? And I'm not talking about the specific event I mentioned earlier, but in general. You, Senator, unfortunately, are better known for your rude tweets than you are for your political activity. It is one of those people who is cited as evidence in favor of those ideas for which the political class consists of screaming characters, of poor competence and good only to make controversy.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u51	Excuse me, Senator Bencini, I will take the floor because it seems to me that this level of debate is not suitable for the House. We understand more or less what you are saying. I repeat that I do not think it is a point that you should have brought to this House. I'll take the floor at this point and of course I have to give it to Senator Gasparri who is begging me to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u54	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, of course I speak for myself rather than for an end-of-session speech. The voters have been expressing more generously on my judgements for decades than Senator Bencini will find out about him in a few weeks' time. In fact, we are going to the elections and I wish you well, but I see your rough and difficult path. With regard to the case referred to, there will be a dispute in the courts to decide whether the word "prejudiced" can be applied only to criminal sentences - as some believe, but the law does not say - or even to final sentences in civil proceedings. The writer in question, Saviano, had a final conviction for a plagiarism of some articles in a book. It's a very well-known thing, just click on the net and find it. So the fact is incontrovertible. Afterwards I sued Saviano, who some evenings ago - if we want to say it all - on the first network, he defined the members of the League in the very expensive program "What time does it do." And I would like to thank Senator Bencini for making us incardinate in Parliament, although at the end of the sitting, this lawsuit. Saviano has literally said, without being interrupted by the conductor, that those who are against the ius soli, of the League and not only - I am part of the "not only" because I am not of the League - are thugs. I do not know if this is a language - I say it in the presence of Senator Zavoli - from the first network towards the parties, with the maximum listening on Sunday evenings. I must also thank Saviano, because I will become rich and devolve the proceeds of the causes to the orphans of the Carabinieri. After his post on Facebook, in fact, I received about 3,000-4,000 heavy insults (we will kill you, we will hang you, we will shoot you), with names and surnames, because they write to Saviano thinking that I do not read. I have also sent to the President of the Senato Grasso and to the President of the Boldrini Chamber (who rightly makes anti-hate campaigns) the series of insults received, for which I am denouncing them one by one, as well as denouncing Saviano. Since I think there will be 2,000 to 3,000 cases, I even took a young lawyer, telling him to do that for the next few months, and he will be paid by these gentlemen, who will be sentenced to pay the expenses. I have aroused the enthusiasm of the young lawyer and those who continue to insult will be denounced one by one. I will associate the insults I am receiving with the initiatives of President Boldrini, whom I share, on hate campaigns. I said a thing about a sentence, while others feed hate campaigns. Senator Bencini - as it were - the unfortunate woman spoke, as said that of the unfortunate woman who answered. I hope that whoever wrote that text explained the context to you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Let's close this case, because I think we've spent too much time on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u57	DI GIACOMO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, in 2013 the Ministry of the Interior identified the Municipality of San Giuliano di Puglia in Molise as the seat of a reception centre for asylum seekers, with a willingness to welcome from 500 to 1,200 people. To this end, a contest was launched for the renovation of the wooden village that, in 2002, hosted the displaced after the terrible earthquake that cost the lives of 27 children and a teacher. I have asked a number of questions in which you pointed out that such an initiative would not be feasible, which would be placed in a municipality of just 800 inhabitants, in a seismic territory, without adequate health care and public order and socially unfit to accommodate such a large number of asylum seekers. In recent times demonstrations against this project have multiplied and three neighbouring municipalities have resolved their opposition. It is yesterday's statement by the Minister of the Interior Minniti according to which, given the drastic reduction of the landings of migrants on the coasts of our country - we speak of 90 percent - its objective is to close the reception centers for migrants, to move to the reception spread on the territory. Madam President, I would ask that my questions be answered on 4-07777 of 6 July 2017 and 4-07327 of 5 April 2017 and that the procedures for the construction of the reception centre in San Giuliano di Puglia be stopped.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-10-LEG17-Senato-sed-893.ana.u58	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.10 a.m.
