ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mauro Giovanni, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2853, already approved by the House of Deputies. Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u9	Madam President, gambling and speed cameras are just two different ways of sucking money on Italians. Let it be clear that the 5 Star Movement asks and wants safety on the roads, but here there is something wrong: the speed camera, the Tutor system and the traffic light detectors are introduced with the specific and express purpose of increasing safety and can be installed only under certain conditions. In addition, the proceeds from fines collected must be earmarked for security purposes. But something doesn't come back here: if a speed camera is placed in a visible and marked way, drivers slow down and safety increases. If it's put in a different way, fines increase and people die, because someone sacrificed security to cash. The same applies to traffic lights: if, as international literature says, there is a yellow time of eight or nine seconds, it has the greatest preventive effect; but, if it is reduced to three seconds, fines are increased and the reduction of accidents, injuries and deaths is sacrificed. This is not prevention: it is predation. This is another indicator of the government's derogation from the stated aims and it recognizes and shamelessly admits that such devices are not introduced for the health and safety of citizens, but to cash in and allow local authorities to cash in against the cuts imposed by the government at local level. A hand has in fact introduced an additional article that provides that local authorities can allocate for different purposes the sums collected, coming from fines. The legislative decree in force, approved in 1992, provides that such sums are intended for the provision of signs, for the improvement of the road surface, for the installation of the guard rail saver-motorcyclists and not for other purposes. With this intervention all are free: the municipalities will be able to make better and more cash and put their hands in the pockets of citizens, who will be stolen money, without a relapse on their safety on the roads. On this issue I asked the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport to open a technical table to confront us, because neither is the type approval of these devices clear: there are things that do not come back and it is not clear how they are used. In view of the amendment adopted by the House of Deputies, we must think that there is no willingness to confront each other, because that is the way forward. Then I come to the question of gambling: the government claims that in the maneuver - it is then resounding the use of this journalistic term, which makes it seem harmless - has reduced slot machines. Given that this measure was already contained in the last budget law and in this case you simply have a touch up, it goes to affect a sector that already sees devices in decrease of revenue, because it is surmounted by "slot machines" of the new generation, that is the videolottery (VLT). In a videolottery are inserted seven times the money that can be inserted into a slot machine. Well, the government intervenes on the latter, but not on the most dangerous videolotteries. This means that we are going to cut some dry branch of a sector that is already competitive. And where do you go to engrave? It is engraved first where there are too many, where there are more and where they have poor performance. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please come to the conclusion, Senator Endrizzi. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, I think I still have five minutes left. As I said, we go to touch the sector in crisis and not the one that is pumping more money from the pockets of the poor people. There is yet another aspect I want to highlight. This sector is given in exchange the possibility, provided not for in the measure under consideration, but in the draft agreement at the State-Regions Conference, to keep the halls open for longer and longer hours: according to municipal regulations, they are now open for eight hours and the minimum is to be increased to eighteen hours, leaving them free to place themselves at a distance of one hundred and fifty metres from schools, hospitals and churches. But it is not over, because there is also the ad personam amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish your speech, Senator Endrizzi. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We have an amendment which frees the dealers of bingo rooms from complying with the obligation to maintain their permanent place of business, as provided for in the concession agreements. Well, of all the two hundred and twenty rooms in Italy, this measure will touch a single room in Romagna. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude, Senator. The time at your disposal has already expired long ago. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, allow me to take up the line so that I can finish. It does not appear that this room should have privileged treatment over entrepreneurs. If major facts arise, an entrepreneur adjusts or closes. The existence of a concession cannot guarantee a privilege, where it provides for obligations. Here they are removing obligations while maintaining privileges: it is no longer a risk of enterprise, but it is state protectionism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u10	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the so-called labour market is of particular importance in the current economic phase because, in addition to ensuring the control of public accounts, it promotes, through a complex set of measures, measures to accompany the growth of the economy and employment. There are many speeches planned, as has been pointed out by the rapporteur, Giorgio Santini, whom I thank, and by many of my colleagues. I would merely like to point out, as important facts and which will lead to very positive consequences, the partial decommissioning of the so-called safeguard clauses, the measures to support the areas affected by the recent seismic events of Central Italy and those facing certain problems of the territorial authorities. The measure can be divided into six areas: the partial decommissioning of safeguard clauses; measures for the control of public accounts; measures for growth; measures for territorial authorities; measures for the earthquake in Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria; and measures for education and culture. I choose to focus on the measures for the earthquake in Abruzzo, Lazio, Marche and Umbria, also because in the debate that preceded this intervention were made absolutely not congruent statements. The first point concerns the possibility of taking action once and for all on earthquakes, as some colleagues have said. This attitude is wrong, unjust and unworkable because - and this is also demonstrated by the earthquake of 2009 - we still have to legislate after eight years and not because it has not been well legalized, or rather not only because it has not always been well legalized, but also because there are demands which, from time to time, we must give answers in a non-ideological but concrete and agreed with the productive categories and local authorities. With this decree-law you are trying, precisely, to do this. In fact, it contains very significant measures such as - for example - the allocation of one billion euros for each of the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 for the interventions provided for in the decree-law. Then there is the establishment of a fund to accelerate reconstruction activities with a budget of 461.5 million euros for 2017, 687 million euros for 2018 and 699 million euros for 2019, to be used for reconstruction interventions intended for municipalities affected by the earthquake and municipalities of seismic risk zones 1. In addition, I would like to stress, as the first time, that there is finally a proper and substantial amount of action to be taken in the field of prevention. In fact, adequate resources are allocated to provide for specific experimental plans for the seismic defense of public buildings and for the purchase and maintenance of the means needed to help the civilian population: in short, to do those things that, if they had been done in the past, would probably have allowed a greater capacity for emergency intervention. At last it has been done and we must give notice to the Government and this majority to proceed decisively on sensitive matters. In addition, interventions are planned, further extended to the House, such as the allocation of financial spaces to facilitate the carrying out of investments related to reconstruction by those local authorities affected who, more and more times, have signalled their needs. In addition, the Decree-Law contains measures to support the design capabilities of municipalities in affected areas. And I say this also because of the experience gained after the earthquake of 2009, when we did not have the resources to do the projects and therefore, without projects, we were not given the funding, being at the time provided the resources for the interventions but not for their design. Thus, an ancient error is healed that has produced dramatic slowdowns in the reconstruction work. That is why the vision of this measure must be stressed. As should be pointed out when resources are made available to cover the so-called indirect damage caused by seismic events. Indirect damage - for example - was not expected after the 2009 earthquake and economic activities that had suffered non-material but indirect damage, as a result of the earthquake, unfortunately died in indifference. This won't happen again. Moreover, there are important measures including the increase of €63 million for 2017 and €132 million for 2018 and 2019 of the Fund for the reconstruction of affected areas on 24 August 2016, also to allow urgent intervention for public and private reconstruction in those areas. Particularly important are also the provisions for the extension of deadlines for compliance and tax payments to individuals, individuals and companies, located in municipalities affected by seismic events, and it is extended from 16 December 2017 to 16 February 2018 - hence more than a year - the deadline within which, without the application of sanctions and interest, the recovery of the collection of suspended and unpaid taxes will have to take place. Of particular importance are also the provisions concerning the establishment and the discipline of an urban free zone in the Municipalities of the Regions of Lazio, Umbria, Marche and Abruzzo affected by the seismic events that have followed from 24 August 2016 onwards, with the shocks of 30 October and with the important events of 18 January last, which have caused, especially in the Abruzzo Region, a weighing down of the already dramatic situation. Companies having their head office or local unit within the free zone and which, due to seismic events, have suffered a reduction in turnover of at least 25% in the period from 1 September to 31 December 2016 compared to the corresponding period of 2015, may, for the first time, benefit from the partial exemption of income tax and IRAP under legal conditions, as well as exemption from municipal taxes on productive property and exemption from the payment of social security and welfare contributions from employers. The use of these facilities by companies is possible within a resource limit important enough to start: it starts with 194 million euros for 2017, and then repeat important figures also for the years 2018 and 2019. These are significant measures, plus further interventions for areas affected by the 2009 earthquake. In particular, at last the functions and the ancillary and wage treatment of the special offices dealing with reconstruction are equated. It is an appropriate solution, but it opens up problems of reorganization of the offices, on which I am sure that, with the support of the Government, we will be able to intervene in the next steps and with other measures. [[Applause from Senator Albano]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u12	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u13	Madam President, we are talking about a measure that could have an important economic impact. However, this further manoeuvre, which is worth EUR 3.4 billion, simply represents the patch to a resource planning error and to the 0.2% hole in the deficit generated also to finance the pre- referendum marches that - I remind you - you have lost. This is so true that we are faced with a measure that, while being born to give some oxygen to the local authorities, at least judging by the title, represents instead only a buzz of absolutely disorganic proposals and the result exclusively of a compromise between the various components of a frankly tired government, but that meanwhile approves micro brands in favour of Tizio and Caio, to keep ready for the next electoral manger as soon as we arrive at the elections. Moreover - let us not be fooled - the decree-law in question is all based on the recovery of evasion, only presumed, which, among other things, should serve to plug new holes, and it is yet another chapter of an economic policy that does nothing but screw into the vicious circle of cuts in spending and more bureaucracy. As far as we are concerned, some aspects of the measure give us partial satisfaction, also for the work we do as opposition, often hard, silent and made of small victories. I am thinking, for example, of the rules concerning the National Anti-Corruption Authority. We have worked hard and have put much pressure on the Authority to have strength in tendering in violation of the law. With the corrective maneuver, however, many steps have been taken back. The Decree-Law of 24 April 2017, No 50, in fact, intervened to remove powers from the DAC, and that are now being re-introduced. As usual, great tales and fantastic speeches are made in the Democratic Party and great principles are stated, but then we take measures in which we read the opposite of what announced, except then take a step back and make changes. This principle is also reaffirmed - and it is unacceptable that it should be - when it comes to work. In fact, we started with the repeal of Article 18, with the famous jobs act, and basically it is proposed for the category of self-railers. The Government, in particular a member of the Democratic Party, intervened by including a rule repealing an old royal decree of 1931. For goodness sake, a royal decree can always be touched, modified and corrected, but in this case it is simply repealed and thus creates a huge regulatory vulnus, which will be filled with another wonderful jobs act that every transport company will sign up to overcome the absence of norms. You will once again leave the workers divided according to their society. This means that there will be workers who will once again find themselves in the situation of seeing their rights subjugated to that famous market you fell in love with a long time ago. We have tried to table an amendment to delete this rule, but - as I have already said - this rule has been included by an exponent of the Democratic Party who seems to have an interest in private transport. The Senate is told, by some representatives, that the norm is still a crap, but the Senate will be placed trust and everyone will agree to let it pass. This is a great proof of consistency with one's thinking, but of total incoherence with the workers. As far as public transport is concerned, it is interesting that you can use bus rentals if they are less than twelve years old and talk about renewing the park means, and that's very good; we talk about being able to hire controllers to do checks on buses, and that's fine; but it doesn't specify if they are in shortage of staff, and therefore we externalise and move on. With regard to motorway dealers, there is another brand: on the A24-A25 motorway it is expected that the contributions that must be paid by the State for earthquake-proof adjustments can be made in twelve years' time. Too bad, however, that it has been known for at least twenty-five years, the fact that that is seismic zone. And, therefore, these gentlemen have the privilege of not being able to pay the State what they had to pay, not having carried out the necessary interventions. The last notation concerns the merger and incorporation of ANAS in Ferrovie dello Stato: we will make this incorporation and then the dear Minister Padoan will tell us that we will have to sell the shares of Ferrovie dello Stato with inside also ANAS. Well, if this is the way you want to use it to find money, scrape the barrel and make the marches before the elections, we will always be against these actions and we will always tell you in the face that you are acting not in the interests of the citizens, but only for a disgusting electoral interest. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u14	Senator Ferrara Elena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech essentially concerns some of the issues we have dealt with in the 7th Commission, where we have noted some of the provisions and measures contained in the measure under consideration which benefit students, as far as food and accommodation services and universities in the Mezzogiorno are concerned. There are increases in the overall organic endowment of teaching staff of state schools. We had called for particular attention to be paid to the Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology for a further contribution to it and we find it within this maneuver. There is a part that concerns the auxiliary services of the ATA staff, which still had to be continued, and on that side it is necessary to go beyond the emergency measures. Among the measures which I consider to be emerging - as we also agreed in the Commission - there is the answer, in Article 22-a, to the statisation of non-state music institutes and non-state academies of fine arts. On this point we must take a step back and a little reflection. In the 7th Commission for several years, since its establishment in this legislature, that of the High Art and Musical Training (AFAM) and the statization of the former tied musical institutes is a subject that we have followed very closely. There is a unified text, of which Senator Martini is rapporteur, that in recent years has always worked with a strong attention to give a response to the sector of high artistic and musical formation in general and to the musical one in particular, precisely because of the situations created also in relation to the lower economic availability by the local authorities in order to bear the expenses for these former music institutes equalized. Among other things, it is pleased to note the EUR 15 million for school construction allocated by the measure under consideration to the Provinces. It is clear, however, that we are talking about a situation which over the years has already taken on very critical aspects and in some cases some tied institutions have already had to close. It is clear that this emergency measure refers to resources that the Ministry of Education, University and Research has found within its own funds. We have been urging for some time and even now this intervention is aimed precisely at finding - we have included it as a condition in the opinion that has been shared by the Commission - additional resources, because those available today are a first step forward and only partially allow statisation. Of course, this brings with it a problem linked to a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers in relation to the organic budget. Surely we will need some criteria for the reorganization of the sector and we are willing to reason in these terms. The proposal was there, but in fact we must, together with the Government, come up with a solution that in the months before us can allow us to complete and give a vision and progressive intervention in this area. With legislative decree no. 60 of 2017 we have created a supply chain in musical formation through an extension of the training offer also in schools with the staff of strengthening. We would like the AFAM institutions to be strengthened, to make arrangements with the whole chain and to feel that the Government and Parliament are close to them, so that they can reward the virtuosities and certainly reorganise the system at a general level. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u16	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u17	Madam President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this measure will be examined by the Senate, such as the 2016 Budget Act and Decree-Law No 232 of 2016, without this branch of Parliament being able to put a comma in it. I would like to remind the Government that the desire to suppress this House through the constitutional referendum was rejected by Italian voters. I therefore believe that the high offices of the State should ensure compliance with the rules, which is not the case here. I've already written to the President of the Senate to make sure the government adheres to the rules. Perhaps this depends on the fact that a party that now has the consent of an eighth of those entitled to vote takes over all the most important positions of the State: the Presidency of the Republic, the Presidency of the House, the Presidency of the Senate, the Presidency of the Council and all the Ministers. I do not go into the substance of the constitutionality of the decree-law in question, because it has already been discussed abundantly this morning. The measure, however, has neither the character of urgency nor that of the homogeneity of the contents: it resembles a soup, but objectively there are no vegetables to pack it. This measure has become necessary because the European Union has asked the Government for a manoeuvre of 0.2% of GDP (3.2 billion) to balance the accounts. We are now accustomed to the fact that the government's economic forecasts are unreliable every time and then during the year we have to intervene. If we did not do so I do not know where the Italian public debt would come, which - I would like to remember - reached the new historical record of 2,260 billion in March. Going back with memory, when the Democratic Party governments settled in this country, the public debt was 1,905 billion; now we are 355 billion above the level of December 31, 2011. Deputy Minister Morando, I would like to remind you that only this year, from January to today, the public debt has increased by 43 billion. I think it is now a very unsustainable situation. All this unbalances the ratio of public debt to GDP because unfortunately, contrary to what happens in other European countries, growth remains modest and we are seven points below the pre-crisis levels, which is also confirmed by the decline in the per capita income of Italian citizens, which to date is 7.1% lower than in 2008. Drammatic is also the situation of employment: while other countries have exceeded the employment levels of the year 2008, in Italy we are at over 300,000 units less. The most interesting thing about the measure is that it blacks out a sad truth: from 1 January 2018 VAT will increase. I do not go into the VAT joints from here to the next three years because only a perverse mind that has some health problem could articulate it in this way: one rate goes up, the other goes down; the next year goes up and the other comes back: it is difficult to keep up with it. Of course, from 1 January onwards, the reduced rate will increase from 10 to 11.5 per cent and the normal rate from 22 to 25 per cent. This is 15 billion to cover; I do not know how this country will be able to do so in the coming months. Meanwhile, this EUR 3.1 billion manoeuvre is implemented at 90% on the revenue side: about 2.9 billion is the difference between higher revenue and lower expenditure. The rule that most yells revenge is that of split payment, with which you rake about 4 billion euros. Professionals who provide public administration for three years will have to bank the state because when they go to VAT credit they will not be able to recover it. You also come up with something else: reduce the possibility of clearing debts with the State from €15,000 to €5,000. Already 15,000 euros were a misery and you now bring the figure even to 5,000 euros. You are extraordinary because the "sell" at the same time as the reduction in time for VAT refunds, which, in fact, you move to January 1, 2018, when we are no longer there. You had prepared everything for us to vote in a few months' time and so it will be the others who will have to deal with this issue. You're scraping the bottom. Are you not ashamed of the condition in which you have reduced the country? What's your face? The other issue - I can list a few because the time available ends - is the extension of the dry coupon at a rate of 21% also for those income derived from short leases. Even allow pensioners and self-employed and so-called incompetent employees to give up their credit. But who do you want to take credit for it? Is there a case in Italy? Let me know why I'd be happy to meet him. I should like to conclude with two more comments. Ridiculous are the rules that... [[The microphone's blinking.]] Excuse me, Madam President, I don't want to be pissed off even today, and since every time I get my word off, I've got a stopwatch. I only spoke seven minutes. I demand respect! I demand respect. I have the right, like the others, to intervene for the time I have been allowed! Okay? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ceroni, it's not okay at all, because you have eight minutes and it's been seven minutes and fifteen seconds. I have a stopwatch here, precisely because I know that every time you cut my time. The way you behave is not acceptable! You're arrogant and bullying!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u18	This is the time that your Group has given you, Senator Ceroni, on the basis of the quota of the times, being a decree-law. [[Senator Ceroni's lively comments.]] Therefore, since every time you intervene you get angry, I would ask you, first, to use a proper language (even if the question of language is now out of date). Then, I would invite you to use the last minute at your disposal to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u19	Madam President, I shall conclude by saying that the rules for the earthquake are also ridiculous. You know the condition of the earthquake zones of the Marche: there a brick did not move. Beyond the announcements (one billion here and one billion there) there is not yet a lira available, no suppliers are paid, no one is paid. We have to act here. People are tired and you can't lead people to exasperation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Crimi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u20	Senator Ichino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u21	Madam President, I rise on the issue that has been raised from several quarters, in particular by the Italian Left and the Democratic and Progressive Movement, about the constitutional correctness of the way in which Parliament is proceeding with the redefinition of the discipline of occasional work. Allow me to point out in advance that a serious profile of unconstitutionality would be evident not so much in the fact that occasional work is re-disciplined, but rather in the event that it is left without adequate discipline. The Constitution, in Article 35, requires the Republic to protect the work in all its forms and applications. Therefore, it would not be permitted for the legal order, by failing any discipline in the matter, to make in fact impossible the encounter between demand and supply in this specific segment, except in the form of occasional self-employment. Because - let us not forget - occasional self-employment is still recognised by the social security and tax rules and is not subject to any limit, except that of the 5,000 euros of annual income. So I would like to ask my fellow Members, Mr Lo Moro, Mr Barozzino, Mr Cioffi and all the others who have thundered in this debate against the new discipline of the subject introduced with the additional amendment to this decree-law: do you, therefore, want them to be employed only as occasional self-employed collaborators (if not even in black), without any social security or other protection? For example, the boys hired on Sundays to be assistants to the stadium before, during and after the game, the hostesses for a congress, the waiters for a banquet, the clerks hired in a shop for the two pre-Christmas weeks in which sales triple. They are all reports that last a few hours or a few days and, therefore, do not bear the cost of the obligations provided for regular stable work: collection of the personal documents of the person concerned, opening of an INPS and INAIL position, registration in the payroll and freshman, drafting and delivery of a letter with all the chrismes, communication of the constitution of the relationship to the territorial direction of the competent job; and then repeat all these operations in reverse at the time of the termination of the relationship, a few hours or two days later. For employed occasional work, even when companies make use of it, these transaction costs become an insurmountable obstacle, a real diaphragm that prevents the regular encounter between demand and supply in the field of subordinate work. So, a substantial ban. We must leave behind the wretched idea that the simplification of obligations would in itself remove dignity from work, as well as the idea that the abuse committed in one case in 100 is socially more dangerous than a rule that, in order to avoid that abuse, substantially reduces the possibility of meeting demand and supply in the other ninety-nine cases. But let's get back to the question of method. We all know that, when the referendum is held on complex issues such as this one that cannot be resolved with a clear cut, the positive function of the referendum's indictment can be achieved... [[The microphone's blinking.]] Madam President, I was told I had seven minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u22	Continue, Senator Ichino, do not waste your time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u23	ICHINO (PD). I said that the positive function of the referendum can only be achieved by means of legislative intervention that incisively alters the old discipline in the sense desired by the promoters of the referendum. This was already the case in 1982, in order to remain on the subject of work, in the case of the referendum on the end-of-relationship treatment, and in 1990, with the Act on dismissals in small businesses. In both cases, the change that was made and deemed appropriate to avoid the referendum was much less incisive than what we are discussing today. That is the question we have to ask ourselves about the substantive legitimacy of the amendment we are discussing. Before this change the good work was usable by any subject and, in fact, the five sixths of the vouchers were used by medium-sized enterprises; now the proposed solution excludes almost all the enterprises, that is, all those with more than five employees. Before that it was possible to abuse vouchers to pay overtime to regular employees or to extend their actual time; now there is a mechanism that makes it completely impossible. The maximum ceiling is lowered from 7,000 to 5,000 euros per year and to 2,500 euros per worker and, in order to ensure full traceability, every payment now has to be made electronically, at the cost of providing the hired worker with a prepaid card. [[The microphone's blinking. Senator Ceroni's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u24	Senator Ichino, come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u25	ICHINO (PD). I'm done, Madam President. CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). It's not acceptable! His name is Ichino and my name is Ceroni, but here I am worth as Ichino! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ceroni, have Senator Ichino finish, and then I'll explain why you're reacting improperly. If he calms down, I'll tell him. Conclude, Senator Ichino. ICHINO (PD). If a criticism of constitutionality can be moved to this new intervention is that it intervenes in a drastically incisive way, to the point of subtracting from the totality of the enterprises of more than minimum size the possibility to meet the requirements of occasional work or accessory with the old instrument. It would have been necessary to offer them another appropriate tool to cope with... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Ichino. ICHINO (PD). ... also an instrument that would cost more; but still a reasonable possibility to meet a real need, which is unreasonable to ignore. I say this, because I think we will have to come back to this point. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u26	Senator Ceroni, all the colleagues who preceded you had a couple more minutes than the contingent ones. You reacted, not to my speech, but to the flashing light; you were unleashed and at that point you ended up within the bounds. If you had gone on smoothly, I would have urged you and I would have allowed you to speak two more minutes. I would therefore urge you, next time, not to get rid of it when you see the light and to rely on the Presidency, which is trying to balance the quota with the needs of each speaker to conclude a concept. I'll recommend this for you next time. It is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi, who I hope will use this method of balancing, like his colleagues who preceded it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u27	Madam President, I promise you that I will not be intimidated by light and that I will fully trust the Presidency. We are faced with this handful, as other colleagues have already pointed out, full of cuts. Moreover, it was already known from November 2016 that the maneuver would arrive, because when in the budget session you make a law of stability and use it as a mirror for the lark to bring home a referendum result, sooner or later - as the proverb says - the accounts are paid. And today we pay the bills. Even where it seems that money is raining, we find that it is not more or less the famous gag: if you lend me ten euros, I will give you the ten euros you lent me yesterday. Let me explain why: for example, in Article 22 (7)-b, there is provision for five million for the protection and enhancement of cultural heritage: beautiful, applause. However, the coverage provides for a reduction in the authorisation of expenditure for the permanent recruitment of the famous 500 officials for the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities. Here, too, we have to understand ourselves: so do we no longer employ officials indefinitely or perhaps overestimate that money? Bah. Also Article 22, paragraphs 7 -quater and 7-d: in paragraph 7-c a specific fund is established for the operation of local librarian systems. That's nice! We value reading: well. But in paragraph 7-d we set up a management unit of general level, which alone, we do not understand how, should speed up the coordination of all activities for the reconstruction of the art heritage damaged during the tragic earthquakes that occurred last year and also at the beginning of this year, but the coverage to establish this managerial body is identified reducing the authorization of expenditure for the operation of the institutes related to the field archives and libraries. Here too we must decide: do we want to promote and enhance reading or not? They are two examples and I could bring others, but time is tyrant. I am now going into the folds of maneuver as far as the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities are concerned. As for the AFAM, the High artistic and musical formation, I will spare you all the story that has incredible, not to mention the tragic, because today we find ourselves having a norm that would have the ambition to finally lead to the statization of the former musical high schools and therefore to heal the problems related to these institutions; but it is a pity that this norm, unlike a bill that still rots in the Commission to the Senate, perhaps since 2014, is a generic norm, not foreseeing in fact the terms for the issuing of ministerial decrees, that is those that will then have to describe how to do this statization, according to what criteria and with what procedure. This rule does not even identify the modalities of this graduality and what will therefore be the criteria for establishing certain institutions rather than others (maybe according to the mayor's sympathy, we do not know). The rule even provides for rationalization, and we have now, in four years of parliamentary term, understood that when it comes to rationalization we are talking about cuts. This was not provided for in the bill dedicated to this procedure. In addition, where are the funds collected? From the money destined for basic research, from the non-state academies and also from the funds that had been allocated to the law on good school, with good peace of the secretary PD Renzi and the former minister Giannini. This clearly does not mean that we are against this partial measure, but that behind this partiality there are many risks. Then there is the umpteenth extension of cleaning services and auxiliary services in those Regions where the convention with the Council has been resolved. Here, too, at the end of each renewal and extension, we said that outsourcing does not produce any savings and how, indeed, it produces an increase in precariousness both in administrative, technical and auxiliary staff, and in socially useful workers, and how related to the Council there are investigations that have ended up in the school line, like that of 2012 which concerns an alleged cartel to divide a contract of 1.6 billion. For cultural goods and activities I say only two things. For the Theatre Eliseo we introduced the Marchionne method of private bargaining: if you know the right minister you can bargain on money. Yay! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Without taking anything away from the Elisha Theatre, we introduced the method of bargaining and meanwhile the theatres in Italy agree. Secondly, let me say this, Madam President, we have introduced the rule save directors, which is a piece disguised by authentic interpretation and is a very serious fact, for a number of reasons: a Minister intervenes to limit the powers of a judge (there is, in fact, a sentence of the TAR); he harms the constitutional principles of the separation of powers; he harms the right of defence for the ongoing proceedings. I believe that much more and much better could have been done if, as always, the law of stability had not been used for marchettes. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u28	I would like, as far as possible, to use appropriate language in the Senate Chamber. It does not seem to me that what you have used in various interventions is one of the most appropriate expressions; perhaps I am a bit demodé and still care about it. He is registered to speak Senator Esposito Stefano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u29	Madam President, in this speech I would like to focus, in particular, on Article 27 (12)d of the decree-law in question. There have been many demonstrations by workers in the local public transport sector because, with a parliamentary amendment to the House, in Article 27, which I mentioned at the beginning, it was planned to repeal the Royal Decree of 8 January 1931, n. 148, which - in order to simplify to all those who did not have to know it - is the architrave which governed relations within the local public transport system. It is, of course, a rule that workers are very close to, but it is also a rule that is now more than eighty years old. This choice, which I personally - but I think I am not the only one - I think is wrong, has been incorporated, as I said, through an amendment. We keep in mind that we are in a very important phase for local public transport, because in many regions competitions are starting for the assignment of the service. The Royal Decree No 148 contains certain safeguard rules, in particular the social clause, which naturally protects workers if there is a change of contract and you understand that, since this is the year in which the liberalisation of the local public transport service really begins, the repeal of Royal Decree No 148 at this stage is likely to generate uncontrolled mechanisms. Let it be clear that Royal Decree No 148, as I said, was more than eighty years old, needed to be updated: it was necessary to verify which rules were still current and which would require a revision. After the approval of the Chamber, at the initiative of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and Minister Delrio, a table was started immediately with some more important and representative unions (CGIL, CISL, UIL, FAISA and UGL), which led, on June 12, to the signing of a minutes of agreement to try to direct a path in the face of this repeal. In view of the fact that the rule provides for one year of time for trade unions and employers' associations to recover within the national collective agreement the contents of Royal Decree No 148 which are considered useful by that form of bargaining, there is room to ensure that, in twelve months' time, there is no instrument of protection, for example on the subject of the social clause, the most important one, in the case of a contract exchange. I then make a request to the Government, represented here by Deputy Minister Morando: I believe that the minutes of agreement signed by Minister Delrio with the unions is an important tool of work, but since in this minutes of agreement Minister Delrio assumes the commitment to extend the deadline, in case within the next twelve months unions and employers' associations should not find the agreement, and since the matter is sensitive, not only because of the high number of workers engaged but because the local public transport service has a daily impact on the life and transport of millions of Italians, I invite the Government to take it into account. We would have liked to have done so through an agenda, but, as we know, because of the position of the matter of trust we may have some difficulty. Unfortunately, the Commission was unable to give its opinion this morning, given that the Budget Committee finished its work last night. We therefore call on the Government to strengthen its support for this agreement minutes, through an intervention in the first useful measure, because we believe it is necessary that the work of consultation - absolutely autonomous and independent - between representatives of workers and businesses should be accompanied by a legislative framework. I say this because there have been a lot of controversy in this area and some of my colleagues in this House have called for this deletion as an attempt to take away rights from workers. I would point out that the trade unions themselves - many of them - have expressed their full awareness of the need to revise the regulations contained in Royal Decree No. 148 of 1931. We believe that it would be useful not to leave these twelve months to trade union organisations alone, but to involve the Commission and Parliament fully in the work of building a framework, so that there is no doubt about Parliament's willingness to accompany a serious process, to revise a rule that has ensured, over the past eighty years, the functioning and protection of workers in the local public transport system. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u30	Madam President, today we are debating the so-called maneuver, namely the adaptation of the budget law to the indications of the European Commission. As usual, the sailor's promises, that is, the talk of the DEF and the fanciful numbers of the budget law, make us the usual figure from Pinocchio. I am serene, for goodness sake - in name and in fact - and I would also like to believe with confidence in what Minister Padoan said, which is expecting us to grow by 2%. Honestly, however - it will be because I am a little short-sighted - I cannot go beyond the critical situation in which the real economy is placed, that of the many entrepreneurs and professionals, who are vexed by a thousand amendments and by a thousand uncertainties and by the will to put them all in a position to have to pay always and immediately and instead to receive only if it is good and still late. I am referring in particular to the split payment, which was created with the aim of reducing tax evasion, in order to increase revenue for the State, which, in fact, is not a rain in the wet, but a hail that destroys what is healthy in our real economy. Public administration is the worst client that businesses and professionals can have. Gentlemen, split payment kills businesses. Entrepreneurs and professionals already have to pay in advance 20% of the IRPEF, with the mechanism of withholding tax and have the obligation of electronic invoicing, with the new quarterly transmission of VAT, with the harassment of the spent meter, introduced just to have an anti-evasion instrument, because in this way they trace all the compensation received. In this way we have all become ATMs of a failed and inefficient state. The split payment is nothing more than forceful financing to the state by individuals, businesses and professionals working with the public administration. But not happy, the state, always with its bureaucratic and absurd style, tries to put in a piece that is worse than the hole. We have replaced the efficiency and preparation of the French ENA, which produces enlightened politicians going towards deregulation, simplification and openness, with a degree that seems to be given by the "office complications simple things." Further bureaucracy that consists in having to ask the state what is due to me, with attached costs by private individuals and the revenue agency itself: the administration is so complicated and twisted that it complicates the lives of private citizens, but if it complicates it itself; all in times ranging from six months to two years. In addition, the split payment conflicts entrepreneurs, professionals and companies who boast an ordinary VAT credit to the State and those who are obliged by law to have a VAT credit. There is a competition between private individuals to see their legitimate right guaranteed. The logic would like that, in all cases where it replaces a tax automation with a new procedure, this will be more efficient and make business easier. What happened instead? The Government, far from solving an existing problem, extends this mechanism to all businesses and professionals, subjecting them to useless and harmful barbarity. What you should have done, as a matter of urgency, was one thing: extend the payment of VAT per cash to all categories, thus solving all the related problems and really increasing GDP. Because when you make legal certainty, when expectations are clear and satisfied, there is also an automatic propensity to invest and do business. But if, on the one hand, in order to find resources, we find solutions that are aberrant and harmful to companies, on the other hand we know how to use them; it is disconcerting as in this decree-law, on the one hand, the weight of the maneuvering on the enterprises already massacred by the crisis and without liquidity and, on the other hand, the forage of luxury and the superfluous. Also in this maneuver the Government has reinstated a thoughtful thought to the Ryder Cup 2022, as already attempted in the milleproroghe and in the bill on the competition: it happens, all measures that pass with the confidence and not through the confrontation. Article 63 provides for the granting of EUR 97 million to Ryder Cup Europe, which is added to the share already allocated by the 2017 budget law. Taxpayers pay and pay back: first the public side, now the guarantee for private investment. I understand that banks need guarantees; I understand that they must be very careful, but do I have to be the citizen to assure them? When I go to the bank and ask for a loan, do I always find the door closed? Do I have to vouch for the bank? At the moment, we are linking 97 million which the State could have turned to really urgent and truly indifferent needs. I remind you of the earthquake, which is still there. With regard to the earthquake, the only positive aspect of this decree-law is the establishment of free urban areas, which I have sincerely urged several times. Even a number of drafts of laws are filed, which was enough to copy, but not even that was done, because even in this measure it was possible to make a norm totally averted from reality; a norm that does not take into account how the economy and the country are doing, and has not considered any suggestions. I wonder how we can think of setting up an urban free zone, which has been called upon several times in this House by the undersigned since last December to provide tax benefits - which are well heard - for companies that have had a 20% reduction in turnover, not profit. So, on the one hand, try to curb evasion and, on the other hand, favorite and solicit it. At what time? From 1 September to 31 December 2016. I remind you that the earthquake occurred in August but it is obvious that the damage of the earthquake cannot be limited to 2016 and goes on. All compared to the 2015 period: it would have been useful, fair and reasonable a comparison but not with such a limited period of time and not in these terms. This wording is, in fact, tantamount to not granting the benefit to anyone and ensuring tax evasion for someone who might try. Not to mention the fact that the benefits are granted for only two years, but an investment, if the relief is only two years, does not find refreshment when you go to confront with an already tried and difficult reality at the start. We are in June 2017 and I assure you that the rubble is still there, the reconstruction has not begun and the inspections are not over. We are in total turmoil, but you have also provided for the possibility of facilitating companies investing in these areas. Very well, however, the benefit is limited only to those that start the enterprise, within the free zone, by 31 December 2017. We are in June, there are rubble and there are no roads; but who will invest in those areas by December 2017? In my opinion, this is not serious. It really tastes like teasing. Honestly, a citizen who reads such a rule can only think one thing: that it was made by people who really want to keep the chair because they can only live by politics and do not know what it means to do business, do not know what it means to work, do not know what real life is. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u31	Madam President, in this measure I would like to stress a recurring issue which relates to infrastructure and transport in general in our country. Reading the decree-law that contains the maneuver to our examination, it immediately shows the absence of politics and the absence, in particular, of the Minister of Infrastructure. Mr Undersecretary, a few minutes ago, in the Commission, public works, we had the hearing of Alitalia's commissioners and I must say that what we have been stressing to the Government for some time - in this case to Minister Delrio and not only - is the absence of politics at a time of great difficulty in our country with regard to infrastructure and transport. Unfortunately, the events of the last few hours are also quite worrying. We are thinking of the railway accident which took place again, unfortunately, on a local public transport line. The infrastructure then collapses, from the North to the South, for an established inability by ANAS, in certain situations, to manage an important heritage of our Country. Within this maneuver, there is a lack of actions that should, at this time of difficulty, strengthen and fill, not only from the economic point of view but also from the managerial aspect of the presence of politics within this important lot of infrastructure and transport; this is quite obvious. There are things that make us really perplexed. In my opinion, we must first consider Article 27, which contains rules on local public transport and rail transport with its problems, the question of the passage of ANAS within the FS Group, the question of the amendment of the procurement code, the long-standing issue that first underlined a colleague of the 5 Star Movement of the safety of a strategic motorway in our country, which is the A24 and the A25. As they say in my area, it is clear that the handle is missing from this point of view. Then I come back to what happened in the Commission, public works, communications about an hour ago. Alitalia's commissioners have told us that, blissfully, with a two-day action they have changed Alitalia's statute and created the conditions so that the company can be more competitive with the low cost in our country. I asked myself a question. After those phenomena that were put there by Montezemolo and the whole band, had to arrive another phenomenon like Gubitosi (which to Rai was very good, from my point of view) to say that, in two days, changing the Statute, we could be competitive with Ryanair and company and challenge them on the same ground? Link Morando, I'm just gonna tell you one thing. In the Commission we have repeatedly asked Minister Delrio to present to us the industrial transport plan, with particular reference to Alitalia, linking it with the whole rail and road transport system. When we asked, they looked at us surprised, wondering what the industrial plan had to do with this situation. Today, blissfully, the Commissioners have put the industrial plan at the centre of their action, as it must be. In all polytechnics it is taught that when we talk about transport and want to be a transporter, an industrial plan is needed to put the whole transport system into order and to have a use of the intermodal system and with all the necessary characteristics. These things are coming out now. We have asked Minister Delrio several times, who has also been the pastry maker who has handed the country provincial roads whose competence is no longer known to whom it belongs. Or - better - the province still has competence, but they no longer have the resources to manage it. This is the system we have today. The maneuver contains one aspect that leaves me particularly perplexed, apart from measures on local public transport, since cuts are being made again and the regions will therefore have to try to ensure that our commuters can travel safely and reach the workplace. There's a small matter. We always forget that our country is certainly in step with Europe as far as the high-speed sector is concerned, where great investments have been made that at this moment put us on par with our European partners. On the other hand, the local rail transport system is quite different, which should be implemented for many reasons. Is there a strategy? No, there's no strategy. However, there is another strategy within this measure. Article 49 contains urgent provisions on company reorganisation. First of all, we must make EUR 700 million available to ensure that ANAS, with all the disputes it has, puts its budget in place so that we have the cards in order. We would have to discuss for whole days on the criticality and the possibility - but real - to make an action that allows ANAS to be inserted inside the system of Italian Railways of the State. Mr Morando, we recognize all the good will you always put when you address these issues. However, as I said before, unfortunately behind there is no government action that should be much more determined and decisive. Too often we have seen the competition between the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport and the Minister of Economy and Finance, because one wants to sell to cash, while the other wants to re-launch. We still haven't figured out what this government's strategy is going to be. One thing is certain: this Executive is exactly in continuity with the Government that preceded it. In other words, the Renziloni Government is in continuity with the Renzi Government, which in turn is in continuity with the Monti Government. As Senator Cioffi said, today we are still waiting for what Monti promised in 2011, having the House and Senate approve the safety of the A24 and A25 motorways. Today you tell us that with this measure the money due is - perhaps - made available to secure these important arteries. So let us cross our fingers so that nothing happens in the meantime, but we are seriously concerned about the situation of this infrastructure that is more than damaged. We'll see how this is going to develop. As someone remembered before the money may be made available, maybe someone will give it back to us in 2030, we will have to see how things will go. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Barani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u32	Madam President, Mr Morando, our Group is also somewhat critical of this so-called maneuver, on the basis of objective and irrefutable data. In a few days, the Italian Government received two awards from Istat and the International Monetary Fund, both convinced that growth, at least for 2017, will be slightly higher than expected by the documents of the Ministry of Economy. And that was enough to toast, after sighing for relief. Unfortunately in Italy we have the bad habit of dwelling only on the titles and not reading the contents of the articles, a bit like in that old Chinese proverb in which the fool stops to look at the finger that indicates the moon and does not look at the moon. Applying this method to the ponderous programmatic documents risks to play a bad shot and to make us exchange fireflies for lanterns: the final statements of the staff that has completed its mission in Italy pursuant to, vice minister Morando, Article IV of the IMF Regulation, are much more cautious than reported by the Italian press (which often puts titles to sell the newspapers and the content of the article is diametrically opposed to the title) and amplified by the statements of the same President of the Council, who obviously began to exalt the glass half full. I read these statements to raise awareness of the whole Senate and yours, Mr. Deputy Minister, because these are the words and they are not others. It supports the International Monetary Fund: "The recovery should continue, but the risks for the future are significant." You don't know what that means, but that's what he said. This is the incipit. In detail: The projections for this year are about 1.3% encouraged by the first quarter data. As the winds in favour - commercial conditions, fiscal and monetary policies - will become less favourable in the coming years, growth (based on current policies) is expected to stand at around 1% in the 2018-2020 period. Growth could be surprisingly positive in the short term, following a stronger recovery at European level. However, the downside risks are significant, linked among other things to financial fragility, political uncertainties, possible setbacks to the reform process.In recent months we are obviously no longer talking about reforms, our Group was born to support those reforms, but we are not able to do so because there are no more - and reviews of the credit risk assessment in the context of the standardisation of monetary policy. This is the beginning of the conclusions of the staff of the International Monetary Fund. This is therefore the complete picture. It's okay that in Italy we are used to the optimism of the will. It should, however, be compensated for the pessimism of reason, or at least for its necessary realism, which unfortunately is not reflected in the statements made by our responsible or irresponsible ministers. Moreover, perhaps because of an excessive sense of modesty, the longer-term forecasts of the Fund were somewhat like the response of Sibilla. I do not know if colleagues know him, but when a soldier went to consult the Oracle for the outcome of his mission, you deliberately replied with an ambiguous phrase that, depending on how the comma was put, could mean that he would go, come back and not die or that he would go, he would die and he would not come back. A comma was enough. In the most modern language that the Government uses in the norms to be in ibis redibis means that laws and decrees-laws are approved very ambiguous, with double valence. Experts argue that per capita income should return to pre-crisis levels only in a few years' time and that Italy would diverge further from the eurozone's peers: it is a disaster, it is a less reassuring sentence. The Governor of the Bank of Italy in his last final remarks a few days ago had been much less diplomatic and almost brutal saying that with the current pace of growth GDP would return to the 2007 levels in the first half of the next decade. So we still have ten years to go back to GDP in 2007 and in the meantime what will happen to our young people already forced to take on the greater burden of the crisis and those poor who continue to increase continuously, as ISTAT tells us, and the many families that fail to reach the end of the month? I could go on forever, but this is demagogy, false populism. So do not deceive yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, and above all do not deceive the Italians. The tail is always the hardest part to scratch and certain reassuring manifestations are nothing more than a slap in the face of misery. All your reasoning is based on the latest Istat data, which has revised upwards the estimates for the first quarter from an initial 0.2 to 0.4 percent. Already on this sudden leap you could overcame: a 100 percent correction is not a usual fact, it is not normal, there is something wrong: you can't miss 100 percent and there can't be a 100 percent increase. Already this we must analyze it better (and we have done it), but if you look at the data, as we have done, the surprises do not end here: that greater growth comes only from the accumulation of the supplyes, nothing more. Our industrialists, our entrepreneurs have produced and put in warehouses and then sell the material at a later time. It is only this, otherwise the course of the cycle would have turned out flat (flat electroencephalogram): stop the consumption, immobile the investments, the foreign demand that pulls less and less, the entrepreneurs from abroad that do not come to Italy because they do not trust our bureaucracy and our bad justice. I am referring above all to the administrative and criminal one, but also to the civil one that has long times and that does not allow to have certainty of the law and bureaucracy tending to zero in order to allow profitable investments for those from abroad with confidence comes to invest in Italy. They're less and less. In the physiology of the economic cycle the variable "scorte" is always the most volatile data. The relative accumulation can derive from two contrasting elements: a greater confidence of the enterprises that produce for the warehouse in the hope (which is the last one to die) that the consumptions can resume, or are the result of a demand increased less than expected. In conclusion, Madam President, we have seen hyperbolic scenarios in the text laid down by the International Monetary Fund. Instead, we have to keep our feet on the ground. Thanks to this exercise of humility it is possible to see how things really stand and to prepare, even in the narrowness of the times that this legislature gives us, the possible answers. A witness to be handed over to the future government next year, after the elections. It takes more courage, but also a little skill. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the maneuver proves how much the Government has failed with the stability law of 2017, how much the situation has fossilized at a loss and how much Italy is nothing more than a colony dependent on orders coming from above. Not only are we at the mercy of European orders, but we are not even able to respond adequately. We are always pointing out that the situation will change in the following years: always the following year, never the current one. It would like to buffer the existing hole based above all on the fight against tax evasion; a fight that in this way is taken into consideration only when there is to strengthen some account, only to beat of condones. From Renzi to Gentiloni Silveri the script has not changed, a contrast that remains on paper, completely unsystematic. Just think of the fact that although between Renzi Government and Gentiloni Government Silveri the issue of evasion has been touched on for eight times, the sum that the tax, from 2015, has managed to get returned has diminished, as evidenced in the report of the Court of Auditors. Similarly, there is talk of reducing the number of gaming equipment, but there is no specific provision that points, in the long run, to destabilise the gambling lobby and to prevent upstream the very serious social problem of ludopathy, which now afflicts our society; irregularities are always and only hypothesized to be healed. Italy continues to be narrow in the grip of the "c" demand Europe and the usual corrections of the public accounts so as not to burden the debt further. It is the usual scam of public debt, when the only real drawback is the fact that the State has become a succub of private finance and the ECB can guarantee privileges over interest only to private banks and not to States that, by force, can only pull to live, cutting essential services and trying to patch up, in the short term, what is enough not to fall into the deepest abyss. The latter governments have done nothing but encourage the subordination of politics to a financial oligarchy by putting the direct participation of citizens on the bar, who remain unarmed spectators who must hope, year after year, to disengage it, either because of the safeguard clauses (the impact of which is however only slightly reduced), or because of the increase in excise duties and the like. Needless to say, there has been a concentration on VAT consignments because, while not formally increasing the tax burden, the situation does not change and in Italy it is impossible to produce. Doing business for young people, for those who do not have large capital (those who simply forfeit public funds and then relocate at the expense of the workers) means always and still giving the state, to the facts, more than 50% of what is declared, without any protection that can repair from the rampant crisis. All we see is extemporaneous measures, just enough not to compromise too much the outcome of the future elections, so that we can at least keep our heads out of the water. Meanwhile, illustrating the 25th report on economic change, Istat data tells us that more than 7 million people live in serious material deprivation and for the under 35 it is increasingly difficult to find work. No choice is made regarding social inequality, considering that spending on consumption of wealthy families is more than double compared to low-income families and that more Italians always give up medical care for lack of money. The same Istat report explains, among other things, that "the redistributive capacity of public intervention is among the lowest in Europe in Italy." No targeted and far-reaching measures are being taken in the field of industrial policy: we are increasingly moving towards desertification, a desertification which takes millions of workers with it. In the meantime, it is expected that agreements, promoted within the European Union, will be ratified, which will increasingly bring about a savage globalisation which risks completely crushing farmers, farmers and small and medium-sized enterprises in favour of the free market only for the few elected. It tends to ensure that the privileges of large multinationals have a privileged, even legal, way foreordained to the needs and needs of the people. Workers do not need any more of your teasing: you can also change the name but the result of contracts that remove all rights hard won in years of struggles, without being recognized holidays, diseases and accidents, does not honor anyone: indeed. We need measures to ensure that we can see a future for this country, which seems increasingly disoriented by a neoliberal horde, without constantly looking forward to vain hopes and putting aside strategic moves dictated only by electoral needs. [[Applause from Senator Barozzino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u34	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u35	Madam President, we want to express our thoughts on the substance of this maneuver, which I say without any problem, we will support, even with the vote of confidence. And not because it is a measure that relaunches the country's economy, as it has a limit, that is the one given by the objectivity of its main function: that of intervening in the course of exercise also to fulfill obligations of an international nature that we have given ourselves and that are explicit within our measures in the matter of public finance within a scheme, that is what we share and that fortunately there is; otherwise, many European countries would have paid much more expensive prices than those they paid on the front of the crisis: including ours. It is a scheme of commitments at European level that this maneuver seeks to meet, so also avoiding any problems of a sanction nature. Let us lament one thing, which I believe has been lamented by everyone, first by the members of the Budget Committee: the fact that this measure, which has the form of a decree-law and which, therefore, must be converted into law, reaches the Senate without any possibility of modification. This is the umpteenth time that this happens. And it is a mistake, which does not take into account the fact that we live within a perfect bicameral order, where Chamber and Senate have both the right/duty to intervene on the definition of measures. The decree-law, however, takes on some of the requirements that we have considered important, especially with regard to areas affected by recent natural disasters, as it seeks to remedy an emergency situation. It's not enough. We have proposed agendas which complement this type of intervention and which seek to remedy the difficult conditions of the Italian Provinces. Provinces must continue to exercise their basic functions in important segments, such as road and education. The measure then intervenes on another point; I say this because I speak also from direct professional experience. Fortunately, even if the Government knows this and could have made steps of dialogue with the social forces of enterprises and labour before defining the measure, the same intervenes to regulate the occasional work in a punctual way and I believe also very restrictive, responding to what had been the demands of the great mobilization in the matter of repealing the provisions on vouchers, in order to counter the abuse of an instrument and an institution like this and not to cancel its function, which instead is indispensable. We want strict regulation and direct and continuous control of the application of the institute, but occasional work is a work that exists and that needs to be regulated; therefore, we must take note of this need. It must be regulated and controlled, so that the abuse is permanently erased. Then this is also an opportunity to make a political reasoning of a general nature, with respect to the responsibility that all of us have towards the country, and also an analysis of the mood that the country expresses. I believe that there is no alternative of democratic government in this country that is not the center-left; this is a thought that I share with several senators who are with me in this Senate to live an experience of building the center-left starting from the initiative of the Progressive Field. The Progressive Field is a project of center-left unity that is best mentioned in these circumstances. We support the Government in order to allow - and we have also done so on the basis of the appeal made by the Head of State to political forces - a vote in democratic security, possibly with a set of rules that respect the constitutional principles of representation and governability. And in this context we believe that the confrontation with all the political and social forces of the center-left is indispensable, starting with the Democratic Party, which is for us a solid ally in so many situations that we have faced and that we face positively in the difficult trials of government in regions, territories and cities. United with the Democratic Party we have introduced ourselves and we also present ourselves these days to ask the voters for consent. We feel the mission to strengthen the center-left, also assuming this responsibility of voting as indispensable in order to assure the country the necessary capacities to face the serious problems of the Italian economy and society. We are aware of the need to overcome the limits of cohesion and political efficiency of the center-left, but we think that the center-left, with the Democratic Party, remains the only true political response to the needs and difficulties of people, especially those in greatest suffering and marginalized, and the only response to the growing needs of our most fragile communities. At the same time, it is a correct contrasting response to populist, xenophobic and authoritarian drifts in Italy, Europe and the world. That is why we feel the need for a new, articulated and united political proposal. It is clear that there is only one center left in Italy, there are not three or four, because the accounts tell us: it is that of the good combination between the Democratic Party and the left forces with a culture of government and that they become available to a common path. We have made this commitment and we intend to keep it. Of course it would help a lot to understand whether this will is also in the Democratic Party in any circumstance, without instrumentality. We are in this, however, as far as we are concerned, absolutely consistent also in having shared with Giuliano Pisapia the positive evolution of the experience of government of the center-left in many municipalities and regions of Italy, from Cagliari to Milan, from Puglia to Lazio. We shall therefore vote on the maneuver not only for merit, but also for political reasoning. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u36	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u37	Madam President, today I bring to this House the voice of 83,000 students from schools, their parents and all workers from the Province of Caserta. I would first like to explain to you the current situation: I do not know whether voluntarily or unintentionally, the Government has underestimated to date the serious situation that the failure of the Province of Caserta is causing and that will shortly lead to a total collapse which will probably be impossible to remedy. True, there are many provinces in difficulty, but Caserta is perhaps the most serious situation. For more than a year now, with questions, amendments in various measures, notes and reminders in this House, we have been denouncing the slow decline of a whole province. And do not make the mistake of interpreting the word "provincia" only as a local authority. We must think above all of the population of that Province that first suffers hardships of a bad and in this case absent ordinary management. All of this, which has already been denounced by us, has unfortunately remained a dead letter. Then I want to explain to you what the real situation is and what the solution we are proposing to you is. We all know that the question of trust will be raised, but I have the need and the duty to tell you about it so that our complaints remain in the proceedings of this sitting, because tomorrow no one can have the excuse to say that they did what they could, because that was not the case. The Province of Caserta declared the disaster in December 2015. This has led to the impossibility of approving the 2016 forecast balance sheet and the impossibility of any action involving cash movements: then stop to maintenance to schools and roads, stop to salaries of employees, stop to the management of cultural assets of own competence. In Caserta there are 93 institutes that head the Province with about 83,000 students. At the end of 2016, some institutions were closed because they were at risk. In May another institute, Buonarroti, was seized by the Carabinieri for the same reason. Since 90 percent of these institutions are not compliant with safety certifications, they will probably not be able to open for the new school year and this would be a huge damage to the 83,000 children who will lose a year of study. This is because the Province has given the stop to all the activities of maintenance and even of supply of electricity and heating, in addition to having forbidden the technical institutes to the use of the laboratories. The same situation applies to roads: the stop obviously also concerned the maintenance of provincial roads, with all the imaginable consequences for the risk of accidents and safety of citizens all. 18.21 (Following Moronese). Cultural heritage is also in ruins: there are museums, such as the Campanian Museum of Capua, which is trying to resist, but which risk closing because the Province cannot provide for the slightest management action. It is a museum on three floors, huge, extraordinary, with unique finds dating back to 500 BC. The workers of the Province and of the companies dependent on it have not received the salary for three months now and the solution is not seen shortly. So there are entire families, even single income, who are in enormous difficulty, while the induced workers have already been entirely fired and sent home. The main headquarters of the Province has now been closed for over a month and a half, because as the Province cannot renew the contract to the cleaning company, the minimum sanitary conditions have not been guaranteed and also the offices, which have occupied temporarily, will close for the same reason tomorrow. On the question of schools it could be answered that funds have been allocated for school building, but if the Province does not leave the failure you will not be able to use them and the times are very tight, since in September it should theoretically start the new school year. For the issue of workers, it could be said that another 10 million euros have been allocated, exclusively for the Provinces in failure in December 2015, but do you realize that, only for salaries, the Province of Caserta spends about 1.5 million euros per month? The allocation of EUR 10 million, divided by the various provinces under these conditions, does not solve anything at all. Well, in order to get out of this situation it would have been necessary to approve an amendment, which we have already proposed on the occasion of other measures and which we have retabled for the decree-law in question, with which we intend to exempt the Provinces that declared the financial failure to pay the annual contribution at 31 December 2015. This amendment, in view of the fact that the question of trust will be raised, has been transformed into an agenda, committing the Government to take any necessary initiative in order to exempt from the competition to contain public expenditure also the Provinces that are in a state of financial failure on 31 December 2015. We have also presented an agenda with which we asked the Government for a commitment to ensure the smooth running of the next school year for the institutes of the province of Caserta. Well, yesterday evening these two agendas were accepted by the Government in the Budget Committee. I am usually not very happy with the approval of the agendas, because it is rarely followed up on the commitment made. I must say, however, that the words of Deputy Minister Morando make me well hope that what I said in the Commission has been well understood and that, although in the decree-law under consideration it is not possible to include anything, most probably later the Government will be forced to take measures for the province of Caserta, which go beyond what is foreseen and included in the decree-law under consideration in the Chamber of Deputies. In fact, you, Deputy Minister, stated that, despite the measures taken in the House of Deputies for the Provinces in failure on 31 December 2015 and the funds allocated for school construction, in fact, given the exceptional nature of the situation, they may not be used by the Province of Caserta because, being in disrepute, it cannot carry out any financial and cash operations. He therefore admitted that the Government could subsequently assess an action, so as to resolve this kind of hiccup, even if necessary, through the exemption of the annual contribution. That is why you have accepted these agendas as commitments and not as recommendations. When I come to the conclusion, having said that, all I have left is to hope that you will take action before it is too late and - I do not want to say this, but I have to do so - I hope that you will take action before there is a tragedy in schools or an act of desperation of citizens who have been deprived of their salaries for months now. Who is talking to you today is not simply a colleague of an opposing political group: at this moment who is talking to you is first of all a small town in Caserta that brings back to you the cry for help of an entire Province. I ask you to listen to this cry. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Azzollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u39	Madam President, I will try to deal with the most significant aspects, in macro-financial terms, of the maneuvering in our examination, so that we can have an institutional reflection, which is very close to my heart. In essence, beyond the usual myriad of minor measures, both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side, the maneuver to our examination makes a fundamental operation, saying that with the split payment, thanks to the modalities of accounting provided by the European System of National and Regional Accounts (ESA) 2010, for 2017 we will have a greater income of about 1,8-2 billion euros. Since 2018 this revenue - says the Government - begins to be compensated by a lower payment of VAT by companies or autonomous jobs subject to the split payment. There is also a huge new revenue, which can be quantified in approximately 1.9-2 billion, due to the undue compensation that is lowered in the threshold to 5,000 euros instead of 15,000, and the famous about 3 billion for 2017 coming from Europe, while since 2018 the safeguard clauses that, as is known, would trigger the increase in VAT are even reduced by a considerable amount. What, in my opinion, is the serious vulnus to public finances that this system will certainly produce? We have two major revenue, which perhaps too complex a technical report does not take into account clearly and comprehensively, as it should. Basically, as is known, the split payment provides that the State, public bodies, entities controlled by central and local public administrations immediately pay to the Revenue Agency the taxes that they would have to pay to the companies and then paid by them and, beyond the character of anticipation, gives them, starting from 2018 a total improvement of revenues of the order of 1.5 billion for at least 2018 and 2019, which then reduces by 500 billion from 2020. But let's see the nearest years. It is argued by the Government that, beyond the effect of mere anticipation of payment of VAT, there is a real improvement in revenues of the order of about 1.5 billion on the issue of split payment. I believe that this is a figure that does not find a comprehensive demonstration from the Government; I also think that this figure is exaggeratedly evaluated because, in a way, it is known how irritating this maneuver is to a number of layers, which this time are significantly extended to self-employment, and above all, how much liquidity, albeit temporary, drains to companies. So the possible least development that such a maneuver produces is not calculated at all. Often we complain about Italy that grows a little less than others and anything else, but I think these maneuvers contribute. Similarly, in my view, the result of the reduction of the certification threshold for undue compensation is exaggeratedly assessed. We are also talking about absolutely important figures, in the order of about 2 billion per year from 2018. There is, in my opinion, no adequate demonstration, while the effects are calculated precisely because they are used for 2017 to achieve an improvement in the parameters that the European Union requires, but from 2018 onwards they are used punctually for a well-known and well-encrypted size that is that of VAT that must be increased because it already stands as a safeguard clause. In practice, with this maneuver, we could once again face a cover-up. It is a fear that I am convinced that similar situations have already taken place. Now, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no time - and then I will say something about the institutional aspect that I spoke about at the beginning - to check at this time how many other times this has happened. Recently, some studies have been published on the Tobin tax which show that revenues have been considerably lower than expected. If I could add a small amount of irony, someone said that the web tax would be provided to cover the lower revenues of the Tobin tax. Better not, otherwise, in my opinion, there would have been two less revenue. Here, this is the fear that I have towards a maneuver required of citizenship, Italians, Italian companies, Italian self-employed workers to fall within the parameters, i.e. for a form, albeit not excessive, of fiscal consolidation. It could give rise to exactly the opposite effect and thus a worsening of all the parameters of public finance. Madam President, here is my institutional disappointment - you will allow me - towards the President of the Senate. With all due respect to the presidency of the Senate, which has a very high institutional importance, I will allow myself to submit a very strong criticism to you, Madam President. My concern is that these questions, and the possible answers from the Government, would have been possible in a broad, tight but serious debate, as is always the custom of the Senate in these discussions, whatever the Government, whatever the opposition. This kind of intercourse, on figures of this kind, is normally found in the Senate of the Republic, both in the Commission and in the Assembly, its natural place to express itself: there are always answers, whether they are sufficient or not, and there is always the possibility of tabling amendments which, in some way, can meet the demands placed on these issues. Well, on all the economic and financial maneuver concerning 2017, this at the Senate of the Republic was not possible. Madam President, with all due respect, but also with great conviction, I must express my disappointment. The President of the Senate has an obligation to say that the Senate of the Republic must evaluate the financial maneuvers. It must have the whole prerogative in terms of amendmentability, discussion and improvement. This, Madam President, begins to become a vulnus frankly unbearable. The whole of 2017 did not enter in concrete terms into the Senate of the Republic. Only the President of the Senate can make his most authoritative voice heard when measures such as the one under consideration are assigned. In certain situations, Madam President, one simple no is enough, just say it with the necessary determination. I shall conclude with one final remark. Madam President, I do not forget that the maneuver was adopted as a result of a government crisis and, although I do not think a government crisis is enough to prevent a full debate - I repeat the faculties and prerogatives - especially on an important measure such as that, but I do not forget that I am a Member of Parliament and, therefore, I am willing to understand some priorities. I understand that a government crisis is a traumatic event that must be respected. Therefore, as a Member of Parliament, I fully understand that the moment was traumatic at the time and, although it did not seem sufficient to me, I understand that. On the contrary, this time I do not revisit anything that could prevent this branch of Parliament from having a calm, comprehensive and in-depth debate. Madam President, I would ask you to take this observation into account so that we no longer see a situation like the one that the Senate is repeatedly - too many times - now untenably facing, that is not to say speaking in a concrete sense - I repeat, in the fullness of its powers - on financial measures. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u40	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u41	Madam President, senators and senators, the rapporteur has made an exhaustive illustration of the whole measure and many of the previous speeches have dealt with a lot of issues. I would like to focus on a subject that other Members have also addressed, but in a more marginal way, on measures for local authorities, which constitute a full part of the measure under consideration. These are very long-awaited measures, which in part have transposed the requests of the ANCI, the UPI and the Regions and which certainly, with regard to Municipalities and Regions, have completed the framework already outlined by the budget law (as we will see, with regard to the Provinces, we must instead make some more reasoning). As for the municipalities, the municipal solidarity fund is confirmed with a availability of almost 2 billion euros for 2017 and an increase of 11 million euros is expected for 2018. We try to contain the effects of the equation with respect to the historical resources of reference, precisely in order to avoid the municipalities an impact too abrupt in the reduction of transfers. In addition, more time has been allowed to comply with the rules of the new accounting system, precisely because the municipalities are giving themselves all the means to deal with the rules of the new accounting regulation, but some are still in difficulty. Therefore, the time for the dissolution of the institution in case of non-approval of the financial statements is delayed and the deadline for the approval of the profit and loss account and balance sheet is postponed to 31 July 2017 (this is precisely a derogation in view of the difficulties of a predominantly computerized type that the institutions encounter). It is also expected to increase by one million euros, for 2017 and 2018, the contribution to the municipalities giving rise to mergers. Even from this point of view, there is an attempt to accompany a process that has been going on for some time, but that the decree-law under consideration has thought to support further. The rules on simplification are important, different assumptions have been given, there are financial spaces for local authorities to invest in school construction, which we know is one of the most difficult aspects for local authorities, precisely because they concern the children of their communities and the safety of the time they spend within these structures. There are provisions concerning the use of the surplus for investment by local authorities and also for the early termination of loans. As you can see, these are measures which complement measures already in place in previous measures and which give a sense of attention to local authorities. Also with respect to the Regions, the measures identified are several and concern both the postponement of the use of the standard needs and fiscal capacities of the Regions, but also the entry into force of the essential levels of assistance of the services, the TPL, the investments, providing a considerable possibility of investing. This creates a favourable picture of these welfare levels. Many articles also concern the Provinces and the Metropolitan Cities, because these are precisely the entities with the greatest difficulties. (18.43) (ZANONI followed). The incremental cut of EUR 900 million is defined as 650 million for the Provinces and 250 million for the Metropolitan Cities. Decree-Law No 50 provides for a contribution to the large-area agencies for the financing of road and school construction functions of a total of 470 million for 2017, of which 220 million for the Provinces and 250 million for the Metropolitan Cities. Many are the very exceptional derogations provided for in accounting regulations precisely in order to try to facilitate the Provinces that are in a so to speak still transitional phase, between a path that had been started with the completion of the constitutional reform that would have seen the abolition of these institutions and the current path in which instead it is given full title to these institutions. Many, therefore, are the derogations to accounting discipline, as well as the preparation of the budget for 2017 only annuality and it is hoped that it will be really only for 2017, because the Provinces need to return to planning in the long run. They can apply for 2017 the free surplus allocated in the forecast balance sheet, there is an extension to 2017 of the application to the forecast balance sheets of the administrative surplus shares resulting from the transfers by the Region once the latter has carried out the release of these resources. In addition to the basic text already provided for, further measures have been included in the House: Provinces and Metropolitan Cities can use the proceeds of the sanctions for the violation of the road code to finance, for example, the charges related to road and local police functions and to improve road safety. With regard to the approval of the 2017 management report, the deadline within which the regional control body assigns to the municipal and provincial council the task of proceeding with the approval in order to avoid the dissolution of the defaulting institution is extended to 50 days. Additional contributions have also been given; for the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities of the Regions under ordinary statute, Article 20 provides for a contribution aimed at the exercise of the fundamental functions redetermined in 180 million for the Provinces, 12 million for the Metropolitan Cities, an extraordinary contribution for the provincial roads of 170 million (in the beginning the contribution was expected of 100 million) and many other measures. It is clear from the foregoing that attention has been paid to the complex situation in which Provinces and Metropolitan Cities are located. From the point of view of funding, perhaps, everything has been done, taking into account that this is a maneuver that had to deal with other problems of balance. Perhaps it is not enough, however, if the President of the UPI, on the occasion of the Feast of the Republic, wrote a letter to President Mattarella in which he said that the law of conversion of Decree-Law No 50 was an important occasion, but with bitterness we find that the text approved in the Chamber of Deputies provides for the allocation of insufficient resources. If the text is finally approved in the same version also to the Senate, in different Provinces from the North to the South of the Country will be inexorable the decisions of closures of schools and roads, for the impossibility to intervene for the safety. The appeal to intervene, however, cannot be accepted by the Senate, as between today and tomorrow confidence will be placed on the measure. We understand the need to quickly convert the decree-law, but we cannot fail to note, as the President of the Budget Committee has already done, that the Senate has voted on the confidence on the budget law and will now vote on the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 50 of 24 April 2017, so it has not been able to intervene in any way on the rules affecting local authorities. Nevertheless, an area of intervention in the Commission has been cut out and for this I thank Deputy Minister Morando who always follows the Commission's work very closely and has made commitments for the Government, expressing a favourable opinion on important agendas such as the G/2853/61/5, at my first signature, which commits the Government to foresee in the next useful measures or in the budgetary session, compatible with the respect of public finance balances, the adoption of measures aimed at integrating the financial and staff resources necessary to the Provinces to exercise the fundamental functions provided for in the Constitution and to guarantee the essential levels of the services of competence of the respective territories. We trust that the government will live up to this commitment, so I will vote for this measure and hope that it will get a large majority, because it contains important and highly awaited measures for all institutional levels. Could more be done? Perhaps everything that is possible to date has been done, but let us glimpse a path for which, after the climb of these years, we instead move towards stabilisation for these institutions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u42	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. He asked the Minister for relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments and additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 2853, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 50 of 24 April 2017 into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u44	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 50, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 6.50 p.m. and resumed at 7.09 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u45	The Conference of the Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 50, containing urgent financial provisions, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the debate on confidence, which will take place this evening, an hour and five minutes were allocated, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The final explanations of vote will take place from 9.30 a.m. tomorrow. So he's gonna call her around 11:00. After the vote on the question of trust, the Assembly will proceed to the resolution on the opinion expressed by the 1st Permanent Commission, pursuant to Article 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, regarding the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 73, in the matter of vaccination prevention, requested by the prescribed number of senators of the 5 Star Movement. It will follow, as foreseen in the timetable, the incardination of the citizenship bill with the sole report of the President of the First Permanent Commission on the state of play. The President of the Council of Ministers' communications with a view to the European Council on 22 and 23 June will take place at the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 21 June, beginning at 9.30 a.m. Finally, the timetable could be supplemented by the examination of the draft law ratifying the strategic, economic and trade partnership agreements between the European Union and Canada, where concluded by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u46	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are faced with yet another confidence placed by the Government Gentiloni Silveri, in continuity with the many, too many trusts placed by the Renzi Government, so much so that it has become an arrogant established practice. The decree-law consists of 67 completely heterogeneous articles. We move from transport to local authorities, from public finance to local finance. We move from credit to work, from sport (with golf) and from gambling to further measures for the earthquake of Central Italy, where there is a fearful delay, with the rubble still to be removed and the houses assigned with draw. It is especially true that the rapporteur and some colleagues in the majority spoke of the measure in triumphalistic tones, of complex and important maneuvering which is entrusted with the task of developing the country's growth. We should not have been in this situation, also because, when there is a corrective manoeuvre, there are mainly cuts and a tightening of the tax burden, because it is clear that money somewhere must be found. And the citizens must know that we vary this maneuver certainly obliged by the European Union, but also because the budget law for 2017, the clear electoral-referendary profile desired by Renzi, was clearly removed from the medium-term debt objectives. Renzi, in short, tried to finance the promo measures of his and the Democratic Party, downloading everything on the public debt, but failing resoundingly, as happened for almost all the reforms that he has launched: the Delrio law, the good school, the decree saves banks, the Italicum and, in fact, the constitutional reform. The scale of the manoeuvre is 0.2% of GDP, i.e. EUR 3.1 billion which - as we have read - is represented by EUR 2.8 billion in higher revenue and EUR 0.3 billion in expenditure cuts. Money is being recovered in the pockets of citizens and businesses, thus affecting the real economy and the very serious economic and social situation that has existed in the country for too long now. You do this by cutting services and extending the split payment, creating additional liquidity problems for companies that work for public administration and are still waiting for payments promised by Renzi. You do this by cutting investment; you do it with additional cuts to local authorities; you do it by increasing excise duties on tobacco and on the single draw on games, of which the pay-out, or the percentage of pay-out, is reduced. You do so in so many other ways, up to the amount of EUR 3 billion and EUR 100 million required by Europe. In this context it is serious that the Government has however found 15 million euros to overcome sanitary and sanitation criticalities and to heal illegal settlements of foreigners resident in our territory, most probably Roma fields. This is a serious discrimination against the hundreds of thousands of Italian families who, not for their fault, live in neighborhoods where there is a total lack of sewers or any infrastructural work and urbanization to make their homes worthwhile. In this case too, you have confirmed your policy, which is far from based on rigour and legality. In this country, known negatively to the world for its tolerance and for its reigning goodness, criminals, illegals, illegal immigrants and irregulars can comfortably be there, so far you are able to heal everything. No more reunions! Humanitarian protection is almost never denied, just as you do not deny an empty provision of prisons, a sanatorium or a pardon of abusive settlements. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] After the wretched Delrio reform of the Provinces, with which you have not only deprived the citizens of the vote, but above all reduced these agencies to poverty and therefore canceled the services on the territory, this year given 110 million euros to the Provinces for the performance of the fundamental functions. They are crumbs with respect to the needs - as the President of the Union of the Provinces of Italy (UPI) has declared - with which you prolong only the agony of these institutions, since they are on the threshold of the default. It's interesting to know where you get part of this money: from cutting local public transport resources to regions. It's a shame. I repeat again: you are saying that the economy will be revived by this manoeuvre. Please don't make fun of Italians! In fact, the public debt continues to rise. And I've been marking it since February 2014: since the Renzi Government took office to date, it has risen by 150 billion. In fact, the tax burden continues to skyrocket. In fact, with this manoeuvre you will not reduce the number of citizens in absolute poverty, which today affects almost 7.2 million people. In fact, with this manoeuvre you will not reverse the dramatic trend of the denatality rate (the lowest in Europe). In fact, with this maneuver, stifling autonomy, restricting local authorities, preventing investment also to those virtuous Municipalities that enjoy the surplus budget, and therefore prevent to promote growth in the territories. It is useless that Gentiloni Silveri launches into space after the upward corrections of GDP made by the International Monetary Fund. Let's tell the Italians what it is like: in a favourable economic situation, Italy is third last for growth among the twenty-eight countries of the European Union. And then - a very serious thing that is keeping companies in apprehension - the safeguard clauses signed by the Democratic Party, which on 1 January, if not 15 billion, will increase VAT and excise duties on fuels. You still send everything back by no longer having a euro, because you basically emptied any funds from the state budget. On the vouchers: you have used the maneuver also to remedy the mess of the vouchers that you eliminated with decree-law, to avoid the referendum and therefore avoid taking another slap from the Italians, like the one you took last December 4, when the bad constitutional reform was rejected. By proving to be political, however, you have made an irresponsible decision, leaving families, small and medium-sized enterprises, from evening to morning, totally at odds with a programming - theirs - that they had made. And you've also left casual workers without profit. The re-introduction of new vouchers surely meets the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises and families, and as a League we supported it, but you did it badly. The measure is insufficient, as usual: you give the possibility of use to very few, certifying the total reliability of a Government and a majority that, once again, think they can resolve with a decree-law of hands the real needs of our country, however triggering a political problem within you. We'll see if MDP votes for trust or is absent, having to digest vouchers after threatening evictions. I begin by saying that you have imposed new cuts and sacrifices on the country. Yet, 3.1 billion - and I stress this - represent two thirds of the costs we incur in dealing with immigration in a bad, mischievous and unfortunate way, largely illegal. This year we spend 4.7 billion: we do not say so of the League, but Minister Padoan says so. It was here that we had to save money, stopping the business, all too often illegal, of the reception. It is madness to spend 4.7 billion to keep 80 percent of people in the host system, mainly healthy young people, between the ages of eighteen and thirty-four, who do not run away from wars and persecutions, and we keep them for an average time of over two years. Immigration is totally out of control. And not only do you not track down and repatriate the irregulars, letting them roam the Italian territory in the grip of crime and proven phenomena of radicalization. But even, given the continuous saturation of the extraordinary reception centres and the SPRAR centres, which are proliferating but with enormous social and security problems, for some time now the Ministry of the Interior has come to exclude immediately from the reception system, throwing them out, those who obtain refugee status, that is those who flee from wars, because in structures, apartments and hotels continue to welcome new illegals and to assist them for years. This is crazy. That's a shame. Compared to this policy which is totally inadequate to the needs of the citizens, we will say 'no' to the measure. The citizens deserve to be governed, and immediately, by other political forces, who certainly have much more at heart the common interest of the Italians and not the interest of the whole world, of the lobby, of the strong powers, of their own armchair, of their own personal power or that of the party (read the Democratic Party). That is why - as the Italians hope - we must go to the vote soon, so that the citizens can finally, after too many years, choose their own government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u48	He's enlisted to speak Senator Zeller. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u49	Madam President, the corrective manoeuvre on which the Government has put the issue of trust is a substantial continuity with the policies of fiscal consolidation, which are particularly complex and difficult even because of the still too weak growth. The government, first Renzi and then Gentiloni Silveri, has done well, but much remains to be done. Italy, also and above all because of the enormous public debt, remains the special observed in Europe. We share the line of Minister Padoan and Deputy Minister Morando who have achieved - with patient work and without making unnecessary controversy with the European institutions - important results, reducing the perception of risk towards Italy both in Europe and on the financial markets, obtaining many significant openings also in relation to the clauses of flexibility. With this manoeuvre the safeguard clauses are partially sterilized, and this will make it easier to defuse the VAT increase with the 2018 budget law. At the same time, measures were avoided which could be a reversal of the trend of consolidation measures. In view of the difficult situation in Italy, this - in our opinion - is no small result! As an Autonomy Group we have given absolute priority to the identification, in the corrective maneuver of public finances, of a renewed discipline for the pay of occasional work and for families. As you know, we did not share the ideological character of the referendum that led to the forced abolition of the old vouchers. The transitional phase that has followed has led to profound uncertainties and greater, not lesser, penalties for both businesses and households and for occasional providers of employment. The legislation now introduced in the context of conversion does not, unfortunately, restore the previous rules on vouchers. In the decree-law, however, a first step has been taken by including rules that - in our opinion - improve the situation for the forms of work that require particular flexibility and that cannot coexist with the legislative vacuum that had been created. The occasional performance contract represents an appropriate and simplified instrument for micro-enterprises, up to five employees. Similar considerations must apply to the introduction of the pre-financed telematic booklet available to families in the case of kindergartens, babysitting and the remuneration of care activities or, on the other hand, to non-profit-making ones managed by private individuals. We consider this to be a first step, which is not yet satisfactory for the NLUS and the business system. The examination by the Senate Budget Committee has confirmed other aspects that are certainly important for our autonomy, such as the exclusion of split payment for public bodies that are managers of collective property or civic property, the regulation of the rental of housing by private individuals (the so-called Airbnb system) and the exclusion of autonomous provinces from mobility areas for regional and local public transport services. Finally, in implementation of the agenda accepted by the Government to the House and the consequent accounting adjustment, it will finally be possible to give the start to the construction of the prison in Bolzano, now blocked for two years for a bureaucratic setback, it being understood that this state infrastructure will be financed with resources exclusively of the Autonomous Province, as already provided in the agreement of Milan. For these reasons, the Autonomy Group will vote in favour of the question of trust posed by the Government. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u50	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u51	Madam President, I have already argued on this subject today, but time was tyrant. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to reiterate the concepts. I wonder if they could get into consciousness more easily. In this so-called maneuver there are two aspects that touch me heavily and really make me think of a state that is on a different side from that of citizens: I am referring to gambling and speed camera, which represent two different ways of sucking money on Italians. Let it be clear to everyone that the 5 Star Movement loudly demands more safety on the roads. More security and less fines is possible and is a principle also contained in the legislation that introduced speed cameras. Speed cameras, tutors and traffic light detectors are only allowed for prevention purposes. A speed camera can only be installed on road sections where a higher accident rate is documented and must be clearly indicated. In fact, if speed cameras are visible to motorists, they slow down and safety improves. Otherwise, everyone runs and the only result is that the institutions cash, because the fine takes off, while security gets worse and innocent people die. Consumer protection associations report that the use of these devices is planned for cash. Among other things, in the budget estimates of the municipalities, revenue for fines is put at a price. The city bets and relies on citizens' mistakes. In addition, we even discover real scams in the installation and management of these devices. There are many cases of abuse, which we discover only for the appeals that citizens bring. I asked the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport to open a technical table to check, among other things, the correct procedures for the type-approval of these devices, because something is not right. But I didn't get an answer. Why? What's your fear of confrontation? Another case concerns traffic light detectors, so-called T-Reds. International studies tell us that, in order to have the maximum reduction of accidents, the yellow light should remain on eight, nine seconds. On the contrary, if the light is set for five, four or three seconds, the consequence will be a decrease in security and an increase in fines - that is exactly what happens - because a limited time favors citizens' mistakes. It should be noted that our road code requires that we stop at the yellow light, provided there are safety conditions. But if the yellow light lasts so little, how do I evaluate? However, each municipality can fix a different yellow light time, as there is no single rule. So, the citizen is also disoriented. It would take at least one device to signal how many seconds are left at that precise moment when the red light is switched on. Well, that device exists and it is the so-called countdown, that is, the countdown. This device does not impose fines, but - on the contrary - helps you avoid errors and risks of accidents and is more effective than T-Red in prevention. If you really want to decrease the number of accidents, you need to install a countdown rather than a T-Red. Less fines and fewer accidents. Fantastic, isn't it? Countdowns also cost much less than T-Reds. So why don't the municipalities install these devices? We asked the Municipality of Padua to install them, at least in addition to the T-Red. The possibility of fine remains - we do not want to protect wrongdoing - but at least it is reduced. I also remember that the risk of fines is linked to the passage with red and accidents. This would really prevent it. Question: is there money for all this? Let me give you an example: the Municipality of Padua inflicts 10 million euros in fines on motorists every year. In Italy, in 2016, the fines totaled 1.7 billion. The turnover of this business - so to speak - increased by 8.3 percent in 2016 and revenues increased by 45.6 percent in 2017. Maybe the Italians have all become discriticized? It doesn't seem like it. For example, the fines for mobile phone use have decreased, such as those for drunk driving. And for no one to jackal, precise that it is information provided by the press close to PD. Legislative Decree No 285 of 1992 stipulates that half of the proceeds from fines should be earmarked for safety measures: setting up barriers, guard rail saves motorcyclists, police vehicles, road education, signposts, countdowns. The money would be there, if the purpose was really to save lives, but is this really what the government wants? Do you want to increase the security of citizens or give local authorities a means of cashing out and compensating for the continuous cuts in transfers? We understand this hypocritical maneuver, because in the decree-law was inserted by a hand the article 4-a that frees the destination of use of money raked with fines, which will therefore be easily more: the municipalities are encouraged to fill with electronic eyes roads and crossroads. In this sector, equipment suppliers and, of course, some local authorities are being dumped, because with 1.7 billion a year, the dish is rich. We're the poor ones. Another issue is the issue of gambling. The government tries in every way to convince us that it is against gambling, but in this legislature we have seen much more: wild liberalisation, condones, sanatories, tips, protectionisms to which neither Enrico Letta nor Renzi, who first challenged Letta and then rocketed in the same way. What does this government put in our maneuver? A reduction in slot machines. Bravo, you may say, but it was already laid down in the past budget law. It's a little early here, but it's not much. Italians need to know that the slot machines are an already saturated sector: there are about 400,000 and I say about why a decent number are in stock and you also see that there are bars with seven-eight machines and not all are occupied. And in fact the decree-law provides that they go to remove where they are too crowded or make less and I do not say it, but it is written: "in relation to the regional distribution, on the basis of the profitability of the apparatuses". The Italians, then, must know that these machines suffer from the competition of a new generation of devices, even more dangerous, than only videolottery (VLT), where you play banknotes with bets up to 10 euros in a few seconds. There are about 50,000 of them and in proportion they get a seven - times greater collection than the bar sisters. The government for these vampire machines does not provide for any limitation in the maneuver. They cut the dried branches from a saturated sector and let the one that pumps most thrive. The increase in taxation that is called for is smoke in the eyes, because the government prepares to muzzle the municipal and regional rules pushing for an agreement in a unified State-Regions conference, which would allow slot rooms to place near churches and schools (150 meters are two minutes walk). And while today the municipalities can limit the opening hours of these halls to eight hours a day, the government would like to allow a minimum of eighteen hours. So with one hand he takes, but he promises that with the other he will return with interest: it is money of the poor people, in the end. Amendments have not passed one that is one and we know why: trust has been placed. I then tabled an agenda so that at least this could be accepted. In fact, the directorial decree of August 6, 2009 provides that videolotteries do not exceed 14 percent of the slot machines. And so, if the government wants to be consistent, it should say that, by reducing slot machines, the number of VLTs also decreases, and instead none of that happens. This means two things: either the reduction of slot machines is fake, or the Italians are pushing from one market to another, from impacting machines to even more dangerous machines, i.e. from the pan to the grill. Then there is the final pill: today the legislation obliges those who have a bingo room to remain in the seat expressly indicated in the concession agreement. He can't change it as he likes. I authorized you as long as you stay there. Well, in the so-called maneuver, it is possible to change its seat under certain conditions. The site "vita.it" lights a lighthouse on the issue. There are 220 bingo rooms in Italy, but only one is affected by this measure and is located in Romagna. Looking on the Internet it turns out that it would be in Cesenatico and that the amendment was proposed by a local parliamentarians. It would be very serious, Madam President, because it would be an ad personam rule. The amendment envisages authorising the transfer when force majeure makes it impossible to remain there. However, if so, why should the law be changed? Maybe an honest businessman, we put a bartender, who has a license, but his rent expires, find out who can make him a custom-made law? Some argue that, being direct concessionaires of the State, the owners of bingo rooms are entitled to greater protection. But it's wrong. To be a concessionaire of the State involves rights and duties and, among the duties, there is the bond on the seat, expressly mentioned in the concession agreement. Nobody forced them to sign that deal. If there have been causes of force majeure, it is the risk of enterprise, otherwise we are talking about something else; we are talking about guaranteed income; we are talking about state aids. [[Applause from Senator Mangili and Senator Council]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u52	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u53	Madam President, I would like to take the opportunity to complete the speech that I have not been able to finish in general debate, and I would also like to take this opportunity to address a number of requests to the Government on matters which seem to me to be very important. In addition to what I have already said, there are articles on municipalities in this measure. The situation of the local authorities in this country has become really dramatic and the municipalities, from the smallest to the average ones, have suffered cuts of more than two thirds of the transfers. I do not feel that I share in the absolute way the choices made by the government, because - on the one hand - cuts are made to the generality of the local authorities, while - on the other - the resources resulting from the reductions are allocated in a clientele way. I am referring in particular to measures which have been very flagrant, such as those on retraining, which have allocated 3.9 billion to projects for redevelopment of the outskirts and we do not understand how these resources have been allocated to the institutions. I read that 18 million were paid to the Municipality of Rome to retrain the outskirts of a city of 3 million inhabitants. We are well aware of this degradation, certainly not attributable to the current administration, but in general to the various administrations that have succeeded in driving the city. In Bologna there are 40 million for thirty-one projects; in Palermo 50 million; in Naples resources are allocated to demolish the sails of Scampia. I wonder if it seems fair to you to strangle all the local authorities unable to manage their own competences - I think, for example, to the Provinces that do not maintain schools; are they not cleaning the escarpments of the streets, the asphalts are all bucherellati as if there had been a war - and then they distribute funds in a clientele way to the right and missing? That seems completely out of place to me. [[Applause from Senator Mussini]] You'd have to have a greater sense of responsibility and understand what's going on with the country. Another thing that made me laugh is the prediction of the possibility of hiring through sponsorship. We're really being ridiculous. How many companies today can sponsor the recruitment of local government staff? How many things do sponsors have to deal with? Sponsors finance the emergency: Green Cross, Red Cross, Blue Cross, Orange are financed through the voluntary contribution of companies. Sports associations live through the sponsorship of companies, such as culture and events. We're being ridiculous. Now we lacked to predict that companies can sponsor recruitment to local authorities. You have to provide for the state, and if you can't, you try to waste less money. Finally, I can't help but return to the earthquake speech. We have touched on the ridicule: to solve the problems of the earthquake in central Italy of an absolute gravity - perhaps it is the biggest calamity that the country after the war has suffered - the answer cannot be the yellow shirts. It is not changing the color of the shirts from red to yellow that solve the problems of a strongly damaged area. The citizens have lived it as a mockery. It is not acceptable for a former President of the Council to launch such ideas. To deal with these situations requires a sense of responsibility. We must understand what to do and today it is difficult to do so, because we have had four decree-laws issued by the Government. There are 13 articles under discussion concerning earthquake zones. We had eight decrees of the head of civil protection, accompanied by 23 ordinances. Then we had 29 orders of the commissioner for the earthquake and 102 decrees of the Marche Region. You have to explain to me how to understand, stay up to date and operate when there is a production of standards, laws and regulations that is 30 centimeters high. I, as mayor, have a faldon in the technical office where all these measures are collected, but it is impossible to update. It is worse than a university course, because every day they come out in quantities with which they modify the previous choices. I think some confusion has been made in this respect. There is also the talk of resources. It is not enough to allocate one billion euros to proceed to the reconstruction of Marche, Umbria, Abruzzo and Lazio. If the damage estimated by Civil Protection amounts to 23.5 billion and we commit a billion a year, reconstruction will end in thirty years' time. Then, if the reconstruction will last so long, who do you want me to go back to living in those realities? We "deported" all the families affected by the earthquake and brought them to the coast. But if there is no prospect of return, people will make different choices: they will buy apartments there and enroll their children in the schools of the municipalities of the coast. Here you assume the grave responsibility to destroy half of the Apennines, when instead it was necessary to be quick in these interventions. I realize that there are few resources, but we can, in the meantime, make precise and timely choices so that people know what they are entitled to and what they will have in the end. The least you have to do is put it there. Think of these extensions of two-month periods: it is extended from 16 December 2017 to 16 February 2018 the deadline within which tax payments can be made without sanctions and interest. But instead we set a precise deadline, for example on 30 June 2018, and then it remains that. It is not possible that at every measure we move the term of two months, because then people do not understand what to do. The resources for compensating for the loss of revenue of the TARI are also manageable. Finally, the free zone that we had asked for was to encourage companies that wanted to invest and settle in the occupied territories. This measure, which provides compensation for local companies if they have suffered a 25% loss of turnover in the four months following the earthquake, is a mockery, because it does not involve anything and is of no help to those populations. We must, on the other hand, take measures to enable companies that have a bit of goodwill to set up their own business, to build a factory, to make an investment in those areas: otherwise, those areas have died. Much more could be done. My party cannot give confidence to this Government, but when there are important issues we are always available. President Berlusconi on the earthquake said: Here we are, ready, tell us what we can do together. The government, however, did not want to hear reasons and is now beating its nose, because when a government representative goes to the Marches there is an outraged population, a population that contests all the work done by the government. This, then, is another missed opportunity. (Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u56	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, in the '40s and '50s of the last century there was a practice that was very fashionable in Italy among the masters: the "throw to the target" to strike the workers and the delegates who were at the forefront for the conquest of the rights and dignity of the work. It took very hard struggles and dozens of years to erase these shameful practices, struggles that have destroyed - I want to remember - the lives of so many workers and their families but which have then helped to give Italy democracy. For a few years this practice has been back in the goddamn fashion in Italy. There are no longer any delegated workers who are fired with shameful lies. And getting fired is always the same. Think carefully: those who claim to protect their rights and dignity in the workplace. Basically, who wants to defend this country's democracy. The last person likely to be fired, in chronological order, is Augustin Breda, a worker from Electrolux, delegate FIOM-CGIL. He's a worker and a comrade, a delegate I know very well. He is very prepared and is very attentive; a delegate who does his work with passion, as there are unfortunately few left. And that is perhaps why this delegate and this comrade, dear President, also pay such a high price. I would like to tell this companion not to worry, because the truth always emerges, and therefore to resist, because we really live a very difficult time. This policy, that part of politics that is still recognized in these values, should be much more attentive to these issues, because here the democracy of this country is at stake - I always say this -. So good luck, Augustin, because I think the truth will come to light, and you resist, because there is a need for resistance, starting from the workplace. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and Art.1-MDP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u59	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, with this speech I am following a letter which the Mayor of Valbondione sent to the Minister of the Interior on 27 May. With this letter he focused on a strong dissent expressed to the Prefect of Bergamo for the choice to place new immigrants in this Commune of a few souls. This municipality has little more than 1,000 inhabitants, it is located in a mountainous area of the Province of Bergamo and is already in conditions of great disadvantage in the face of an extremely fragile economy, which has characterized the last decades. The prefect informed the mayor that three holiday homes will be made available by private individuals, for a total of about 150 free places. This intervention of mine is meant to mean how the private business linked to the issue of migrants has arrived also in a country of the upper Seriana Valley, with a total lack of respect for the residents, who find themselves forced to live daily with the problems generated by the daily coexistence. Where's the trouble, Madam President? Already from June 2014 there is an emergency situation, so much so that currently in the Municipality of Valbondione there are 60 migrants in the small hamlet of Lizzola, constituted by a nucleus of about 200 inhabitants, and 22 other migrants in the hamlet of Gavazzo, where they reside only 31 people. So there is a huge imbalance within a system that sees us absolutely opposed, just as the first principle of implementing a widespread reception system that is such only on paper. Then I wonder, Madam President, where integration is and whether these young people, who giggle all day long, are part of a serious integration programme. If work and school are something important for integration, I think we are completely out of line. The mayor did well; this mayor probably also testifies to the opportunity that a series of subjects who make administration with passion write to the Minister of the Interior to denounce these situations. If they get 2,000 a day, I don't know how we're gonna fix them. I would not like the idea of increasing the percentage of atrazine in water to settle the question of potability to be applied also to the case of migrants: once the quotas for every 1,000 inhabitants have been exceeded, the percentage will be changed so that it can be put in the municipalities again. So I do not think there is a solution to this problem. The mayor has done well to write and it is a problem that must be absolutely linked to the issue of ius soli, which will come to this House these days and on which we will certainly be very opposed. [[Applause from Senator Divine.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u60	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-839.ana.u61	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 15 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.56 p.m.
