ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mauro Giovanni, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. From now on, therefore, the deadline of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:38 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u4	I inform you that the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has communicated that, in accordance with Article 19 of Legislative Decree No 533, as well as the opinion of the Council for the Rules of Procedure expressed at its meeting of 7 June 2006, the allocation of the seat made vacant in the region of Tuscany following the disappearance of Senator Altero Matteoli, has found, at its meeting of 20 December, that the candidate who immediately follows the last of the elected in the progressive order of the list to which the said Senator belonged is Franco Mugnai. I acknowledge the Junta of the parliamentary elections and immunities of this communication and I proclaim Senator Franco Mugnai. I warn you that the 20-day deadline for any complaints will begin today with regard to the new proclamation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2740, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Lumia, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u6	Mr President, colleagues know that we are about to pass the law on witnesses to justice and that these are different from the law's collaborators. My colleagues do not know, however, that although the witnesses of justice have made a very valuable contribution in the fight against the mafias, the State has not been able to appreciate it or accompany a choice of life that has often caused many troubles and sufferings both to them and to their families. Anti-Mafia legislation was originally designed not for the witnesses of justice, but for the collaborators of justice. I remind all my colleagues that we were in a historic phase in which the Italian State, for the first time, decided to challenge the mafias, so the contribution of the collaborators of justice was of inestimable value. The legislation is born on them and then adapts to the witnesses of justice. This adaptation ultimately caused a lot of damage and, as I said before, many hardships for the real life of the witnesses of justice. Colleagues, we are talking about honest people who do their work, who become aware of mafia facts and who, rather than turning their backs, denying and pretending not to see, decide to do their duty as citizens, i.e. denouncing and testifying. Theirs is therefore a special and of great quality contribution because it sends the mafias to the beast, that towards an honest citizen who testifies they do not accept the idea that someone can fit into a business that does not belong to him, since for the mafias the omerta is the cornerstone of the relationship with the honest citizens: You mind your own business. Don't get involved, it's not about you. This is why the lives of these people are at risk; most of the time they have to abandon their daily condition, in some cases even all of a sudden; so in the morning they make their contribution and already in the evening they have to abandon their real life and their work: get away from their home, interrupt all relationships with friends, take their children away from school and change places, name and life. You understand that in this violent rift from one's own affections and territory there is a discomfort that the State must understand and know how to accompany, and most of the time this has not been done. Even more: there is the next step to allow witnesses of justice to be able to reintegrate into real life, because witness is a trait of one's life, it is not life: life is work, relationships, family and territory and all this must be done in conditions of anonymity, even changing one's generalities. Imagine a person who, all of a sudden, has another name and another surname and we know that identity is one of the essential rights of the individual, as well as one of the distinctive traits of a person's life and journey and this is no longer there. Then think of the children of these people, who suddenly have to suffer this trauma without fully understanding the extent of that decision and without understanding well why their father and mother led them to make that choice. You understand, therefore, also the trauma, the difficulties and the inconveniences that multiply when from the witness you pass to the sphere of the joint and of the children. The same applies also to other family members who, most of the time, become the object of retaliation and revenge, so it is on them, who remain in the place of origin, who unleash the fury and the mafia violence (and we have had many cases that show us that that choice was then subjected to a high sacrifice). So, ladies and gentlemen, for the first time, it is happening that we intervene, in this field by defining a set of rules, a systemic regulation concerning only witnesses of justice, which starts from the beginning from the idea that the witness of justice is a resource and not a problem for the Italian State and is a valuable resource. That is why we must apologize to the witnesses of justice. We must understand that we have made serious mistakes and that we can now finally make a choice that allows us to look them in the eye, as a state that gives the hand to its citizens and together with them makes serious choices, which can lead to commitments that can be maintained. The whole arctic walks along this itinerary. And there is also an absolute novelty: witnesses of justice can remain in the place of origin. This is another disruptive choice, of breaking up. The state, as a first option, must allow those who make the witness of justice not to be eradicated. Of course, the real danger must be assessed and, in proportion to the real danger, the State must do everything to ensure that the witness is protected and that his economic, social, affective and family activity can take place where he has lived, where he has developed this choice and where he must become an example for the whole local community and for other citizens. Today also this option that, legally, before was secondary - indeed it was almost bizarre - becomes an option like the one that is consumed when the witness is taken away from its own location. Therefore, the articles flow along this thread: the witness as a resource, resource remaining in the place of origin, resource when it is forced, for reasons of protection, to be removed, resource, not only when witnessing, but also when it must be reinserted in social life; resource even when it must be protected with safety norms that are not accordion: of great importance when witnessing and then, in the end, increasingly reduced, even then failing when one finishes giving this testimony. We've had some very serious cases. Think of the case Lea Garofalo, where then the mafias, who do not forget, intervened and caused mourning and pain to those people and their family members. This too is overcome because the security system must always be alert, proportionate, vigilant and must not be instrumental in using witnesses and then abandoning them to their destiny. With these choices, ladies and gentlemen, we can enrich the anti-mafia legislation of this other instrument. Mr President, you know that this has been a very busy parliamentary term in the fight against mafias. It had never happened that we finally moved from the anti-mafia of the next day (the emerging one, the one that chases the often violent acts and the massacres of the mafia) trying to advance towards the anti-mafia of the day before (the one that anticipates, the one that understands, the one that finally gives the state the possibility to dictate the times). Sure, we're still at the beginning of the day before the anti-mafia. There is still a need for further action and we still need to improve our cultural and legal and operational system, but it is the path we have taken in this parliamentary term and therefore needs to move forward and fulfil all its potential. I assure you, however, that the bill on witnesses of justice will be a good law and I hope that it will pass into the text approved by the House, also because it is a law that has been characterized by a very strong sharing and preparation. At the origin of this law is the work of the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, which carried out a work of "excavation" with witnesses of justice and found almost unanimous sharing. I hope that this condition will also be fulfilled here in the Senate and that, therefore, we can all together approve this bill, even in a short time. I will therefore not read the text to you and I will not bore you with a technical presentation, so as to move forward in order to approve the text in a very short time. I therefore ask the Presidency to allow me to hand over the technical report so that it can be annexed to the report of the sitting. [[Applause from the PD Group and Art. 1-MDP-LEU.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u7	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Senator D'Ascola is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u8	Mr President, I believe that the legal aspect is obviously important, because we cannot discuss a legislative text without enhancing its aspects in law, but I think that the political aspect is even prominent. Let's talk about the two sides that need to be entertained. In the meantime there is a subjective side, that is to say to identify the subjects considered worthy of the criteria of the protection system, of the protections introduced by this law. From this point of view there is an important dilation, because we do not only understand the witnesses of justice, that is those who have carried out a witnessing activity by making statements before the judicial authority, but we do include in the section of the subjects who benefit from this form of protection not only the subjects who permanently live with the witnesses of justice, but also the subjects involved in the area of danger - we might say - that puts at risk their own survival. So there is an important dilation. In addition, there is responsible attention to the quality of statements, because there was a problem of the need to individualize the treatment of witnesses of justice to those who were deserving. Here the objective is pursued on a double side. In a verse, it is said that they must have made reliable statements in an intrinsic sense, and also soundly reliable. There is the use of an attribute that could perhaps be considered superfluous, that of the validity of reliability, because it could have been objected that what is reliable is so because it is well-foundedly reliable. However, the use, perhaps emphatic, multiple, of the attribution serves to emphasize that one cannot claim to benefit from such a treatment only for having made statements that may be placed in an area of doubt. So we are talking about reliability, moreover objective, because the other attribute, that of intrinsic reliability, is derived from a tried and tested jurisprudence (since 1991, at least with the first sentence in united sections, that of the murder of Commissioner Calabresi) according to which it is therefore an intrinsic objective connotation of the declaration. So it comes after the subjective reliability and is a reassuring complement to the circumstance that that subject actually deserves the protection that is reserved to him. Now, as the rapporteur said, there is an aspect of humanization of protection, because protection cannot go, except where there are prevailing security requirements, to the point of removing these subjects from the place where they live and where they carry out those work activities that constitute their support and their own family. Therefore, in the main line, there is the right to remain in the place where one lives, where one retains one's own working, social and human relationships, except that those security needs that may possibly recommend the removal from those places are not prevalent; and then the right to maintain affective relationships which constitutes a necessary pendant with respect to the right to remain where one has always lived. I was saying, the other parameter by means of which we pursue the objective of guaranteeing reliable declarations is the introduction of an aggravating circumstance with special effect, in addition to the crime of slander, for those who have, in an attempt to obtain or to remain under the special protection regime, made false statements in the awareness of their falsehood, thus attributing a fact to a subject who was previously known to be innocent. The additional measures aim to ensure economic support which, knowingly, has the objective of maintaining a standard of living corresponding to that to which it has renounced. I was saying at the outset (and I would be incomplete if I did not take account of this other side) that the political choice is in a certain sense above the value point of view and those reasons that direct the legislator's decision in one direction or another with respect to the considerable and equally important legal side, that is, in what the axiological choices of the legislator have then materialized. In fact, we are intervening in this measure on what I could call the essential hub of all good democracy, namely the regulatory facts of the relationship of trust between the State and the citizen. This is one of the fundamental elements of democracy, because the citizen renounces certain prerogatives, including freedom, towards a State which fulfils those minimum instrumental obligations (so I could define them), which are indicative of an adequate level of loyalty between the State and the citizen. The State therefore assumes obligations of protection against citizens, consisting in ensuring the best living conditions, and is obliged to maintain peace and social cohesion, in exchange for the transfer of individual rights of the citizen. It was therefore not conceivable that, in a context that constitutes the in itself of the relationship of trust and therefore of democratic guarantees, the State would fail to fulfil an obligation of solidarity with those who renounce their family tranquillity, the right to live where they were born, affective, social relations, the economic advantages resulting from an activity that they have freely exercised since always. It was not conceivable that a reneging, non-missive and fugitive state in fulfilling its duties, not only of protection but also of guarantee, with regard to the continuation and maintenance of conditions of life prior to the assumption of an important obligation on the part of the citizen towards the State, which refers to the obligation to render loyal its conduct towards the State itself and to the fulfilment of a difficult but necessary obligation of loyalty to the administration of justice, making itself protagonists of an absolutely faithful and observance of the rules, thus taking risks not only for itself but above all towards its own family. I therefore believe that perhaps the most important aspect of this measure is the expression of fundamental principles of regulatory democracy of this difficult relationship between the State and citizens, which this legislative text achieves in a context of reality and mutual fulfilment of obligations. In this direction, I believe that the text deserves the utmost consideration and to be voted on, and I allow myself, in order not to repeat that useless performance of those who say the same things in general discussion and in explanation of vote to anticipate in this context, the Group's vote in favour to which I belong is differentiated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u9	Mr President, it has been sixteen years since Law No 45 of 2001 was enacted, which substantially extended to the witnesses of justice the measures in favour of the so-called repentant and someone might think that, since there is already one law, it is superfluous to approve another. At this time it was realized that many situations were better regulated, starting from the definition of witness that was indicated by Decree-Law No. 8 of 1991 which extended to them some areas of premium of the collaborators of justice. Based on a superficial analysis it would appear that the two figures, having some common traits, do not need specifications and that the legislation was more than sufficient. On the other hand, an analysis of the current state has revealed several critical issues that we can summarize in a massive use of protection programmes in protected locations, in situations often degraded and in complete social isolation, in a lack of economic resources and in a disparity of treatment between witnesses of justice and, finally, in an excessive rigidity of procedures. Precisely to overcome these critical issues that has been prepared and approved to the House this provision, that today we are going to fire. Among the highlights of this bill are the recognition of the protection of persons living with witnesses and a better legal definition. The types of special protection measures are defined, which consist of physical, economic and social and occupational protection measures. It should be noted that the protection measures should be personalised, regardless of whether they are taken in the place of origin or in the protected place of origin. Economic support is also articulated in order to meet the needs of the witness and his family members: he is granted a reimbursement of the expenses incurred, such as the right to housing of equal dignity, the right to legal assistance and flat-rate compensation; in the case of a transfer to a protected place, the State will then buy its buildings, corresponding the money to the witnesses. Another innovative aspect is the identification of social reintegration measures, which provide for access to work, including unpaid work, the possibility to benefit from specific forms of support to their business and the possibility of access to the management of confiscated property. This law, in addition to protecting the economic and social interests of the witness, also focuses on the institutional side, innovating the composition of the central commission, and the Central Protection Service, as well as on the proposals for admission to the specific protection measures. It also simplifies the rules of the provisional and definitive protection plan. The most important and perhaps new feature of this measure is Article 16, which establishes the contact person of the witness of justice: a person of his confidence who assists him throughout the duration of the protection program and even later until the repurchase of economic and therefore social autonomy. It should be specified that the contact person has an exclusively welfare task and that ownership of the decision remains at the head of the witness. This bill, on the one hand, puts the need for the witness at the centre, so much so that in a state of necessity it can directly interrogate with the central commission; on the other hand, it further renders it responsible: in the case of false statements to obtain unlawful benefits a further aggravating circumstance with special effect of the crime of slander is triggered. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this will be a good law that will restore distortions of the past and restore confidence to people who have given much to all of us and who have often not received in proportion. It is a law that will take on a special meaning for me: to feel with one's own ears the emotions, the anxiety and the fatigue of living the witnesses of justice will remain an indelible memory. I hope that the measure will be given great visibility, because its knowledge will encourage other citizens to denounce it. [[Applause from Senator Lucidi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u11	Mr President, with the bill on our examination that we are going to vote on, one of our country's serious problems is finally faced with the witnesses of justice. And when the legislative proposals concern the actual problems of our country and not just political propaganda, these are voted - as I hope will be the case today - unanimously (the very few amendments that have been tabled already bear witness to this). It is a question of guaranteeing not only protection, as rightly provided for in the measure, with a system of guarantees both in terms of personal protection and in terms of economic aid, psychological support and more; what is more important is that this bill finally recognises the role that witnesses of justice have in ensuring, through their declarations, an effective contribution to ascertaining responsibilities. There is a whole system of guarantees that are implemented and, at the same time, as has just been mentioned by the colleague of the 5 Star Movement, there is the figure of the contact person of the witness of justice, which serves precisely to identify any deficiencies and problems in the field of protection, in such a way as to offer guarantees to these people, who offer aid and a contribution to the State putting at risk their person and sometimes even their family members. For this reason, the draft law in question, as a whole, draws up a framework of guarantees and safeguards, which serve to ensure that these people feel reassured that their contribution to one of the services to the State is recognised by the authorities and institutions. For this same reason, I believe that our intervention is even late, but it finally arrives. It must be carefully assessed how this measure marks a distinction between good policy and bad policy. In fact, good politics addresses serious individual problems, which are present in our country, while bad politics is more concerned with making rules that serve to fuel a political contrast, rather than solving problems. The rule under consideration, as it is written, is urged by the same witnesses of justice, who feared our disregard for such problems, probably thinking that we had more interest in other problems, to the point that in recent days they have organized demonstrations to solicit the approval of such legislation. On behalf of the Forza Italia Group, I therefore very much welcome the fact that we have finally reached the stage of discussing and voting on this measure, and this is also borne out by the fact that we have not tabled any amendments, either in the Commission or in this House, precisely because we fully agree with the measure, from the outset, from the definition of the witness of justice, to the various measures adopted in the text. Therefore, in order not to waste any more time, I guarantee that the Forza Italia Group will share in the final vote the discipline under consideration, just as it was approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u13	Mr President, just a few weeks ago we adopted the new anti-mafia code and, with the approval of this new measure today (I hope ultimately), we put another important part of the picture drawn by the current legislature, which has scored some important goals on the issue of combating the Mafia. The approval of the bill for the protection of witnesses of justice is an act due, not only to the system of contrast and the fight against the mafia, which today needs these figures, but also as a sign of attention to people who, for an act of very high civic value, endanger their own life, that of their own family, the tranquility of their existence and also the very structure of their own life. First of all we must mark the difference between them and the figure of the collaborator of justice, because this overlap too often, in the common language, risks not helping us to focus on who we are talking about. The witness of justice is not the repentant and is not a person who has been guilty of any crime and has decided to cooperate. The witness of justice is an absolutely innocent person who decides to make himself available to the State. When we talk about the phenomenon of homelessness in some parts of our country, we must always have very clear what is the destiny, what is the context in which we go to insert the person who decides to challenge silence, who decides to denounce. This person puts himself in the hands of a State that is often unable to defend it. With this law we make it easier to defend the figure of the witness of justice starting from an important innovation, one of the most important, I believe, contained within this provision, that is to say that the protection of the witness of justice more and more, with this bill, is oriented to the defense of his life where he is living it and not through the special programs of transfer to a protected place, which must remain the last ratio considered the formidable impact they have on the lives of these people. I also point out the changes that there are also with respect to the forecasts: the possibility of hiring in the public administration and the possibilities in favour of the people who have a business and I think of the important figure of Pino Mascari who still today, as a former entrepreneur, lives in the hands of the State in a protected way. This bill allows to help those who have a business to move forward, including by providing for the use of property confiscated from the mafia in this direction, to help these people. Still, it is important to use the probative incident and the videoconference to listen to these people, whose over-exposition must be avoided precisely for the respect of the danger to which they are exposing their lives. They are real heroic civilians who decide to challenge the mafias paying a very high price, renouncing, that is, the normality of their existence and the security of their family. I therefore believe that it is a necessary act on the part of this Parliament to succeed, in this final legislative term, in fulfilling a promise, which is not only with regard to these people, and it is not only with regard to those civil society organisations that have so much pressed in this direction, but also, and above all, with a view to committing themselves to achieving one of the most distinctive constitutional principles, namely respect for the law. Respect for legality requires support for those who take responsibility, putting their own experience, their own existence, the security of their family, to help all and all of us to ensure that the scourge of organized crime can find in the laws of the State, but also and above all in the civil testimony of people in the front line, a solution, providing a way of salvation to our country from organized crime, for the reaffirmation of the legality of the State and the full constitutionality of the life of all our fellow citizens and citizens, even those who live in the areas most affected by this scourge. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u14	The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in his reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that the Government is looking forward to the adoption of this bill for the reasons already widely set out by the rapporteur and by all the speeches that followed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u16	I note that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I note that the 5th Commission has given an opinion on the text of the draft law proposed by the Commission on the basis of Article 81 of the Constitution, subject to the deletion of paragraph 2 of Article 1. Moreover, as Senator Tonini said at the sitting of the 5th standing Commission on 13 December, the rapporteur's amendment 1.1, which has an effect on Article 1 (2) of the Treaty, restores the text approved by the House of Deputies on which the Budget Committee itself gave its opinion in full. The adoption of proposal 1.1 could therefore exceed the opposite opinion on the text expressed by the 5th Commission. I therefore ask Senator Tonini, pursuant to Rule 100 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, to confirm this interpretation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u17	Mr President, I confirm what you have said: it is clear that our opinion against the paragraph must be understood as an opinion of null and void condition for the adoption of the amendment. If the amendment were adopted, of course, the objections would fall.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u18	In the light of what Senator Tonini has explained, the adoption of amendment 1.1 is necessary in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which an amendment and an agenda have been tabled, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u19	Mr President, the opinion is obviously in favour of amendment 1.1, tabled by the rapporteur, also in the light of the opinion of the Budget Commission that we have just heard. The opinion was also in favour of the G1.1 agenda. If I may, Mr President, I would also like to express my opinion on the other two amendments: I call for Amendments 2.1 and 8.1 to be withdrawn, otherwise I am against them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u20	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u21	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u24	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, this is a particularly important and sensitive measure, which deserves the vote of all the senators. As I know the benches are not particularly full, I would ask for the quorum to be checked.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u25	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is not supported.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u26	Thank you, Mr President, I would like to congratulate you on your speed and I hope that the same speed, even in this short term, will also accompany the other checks on the quorum.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u27	I think it's everyone's wish. I put to the vote amendment 1.1 tabled by the rapporteur. ZIZA (GAL-UDC). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zizza, I've already called the vote by show of hands. It's approved. Having been accepted by the Government, the G1.1 agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1 in the amended text. ZIZA (GAL-UDC). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which an amendment has been tabled which has been withdrawn. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 2. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which an amendment has been tabled which has been withdrawn. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 8. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 12. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 14. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 14. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 15. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 15. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 16. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 16. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 17. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 17. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u30	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, there are papers which do not correspond to senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u31	I invite the Secretary Senators to extract all the cards that do not correspond to the presence of senators. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). On the other side too! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. On the other side, too. I would kindly ask colleagues to cooperate with the Secretary Senators. We can proceed. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 18. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 18. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 19. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 19. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 20. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 20. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 21. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 21. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 22. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 22. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 23. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 23. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 24. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 24. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 25. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 25. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 26. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 26. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 27. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 27. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 28. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 28. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u34	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, this measure aims at overcoming the problems arising from the current legal framework that provides for the regulation of witnesses of justice within the framework of the law on legal aid workers, contained in Decree-Law No 8 of 1991. The draft law follows on from the proposals made by the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of mafias and other criminal associations, including foreign ones, in its report on the protection system of witnesses of justice, presented in October 2014. It should be recalled first that Law No. 45 of 2001, reforming precisely the discipline contained in the decree-law of 1991 on the collaborators of justice, had the merit of codifying the autonomous figure of the witness of justice, being such a category of subjects, unlike the so-called repentant, normally unrelated to the criminal circuit. Prior to 2001, the treatment of the witness, in practice, was indistinguishably equivalent to that of the co-worker of justice provided for in the 1991 decree-law and only with this news, his position is distinguished as regards both the diversity of the assumptions that allow admission to the special protection measures, and the treatment. The discipline on witnesses was then integrated by regulation: above all the ministerial decree of the Ministry of Interior n. 161 of April 2004, despite the character of secondary legislation, played a fundamental supplemental role of the scant discipline on witnesses of justice. I think it is important to remember that the relationship of justice workers with the State is of a premium nature - in exchange for benefits of various kinds (penal, trial, penitentiary and economic), for themselves and for their families - as well as physical protection, for themselves and for their families. The so-called repentant sign a contract with the State based on the provision of information about the criminal organization to which they belong. The witnesses of justice, on the other hand, are citizens who, as a rule, have nothing to do with crime and decide to provide their contribution to the investigation of a crime fact, often responding to a civic duty that is increasingly failing in our country. For this reason, they enjoy protection from the State, which, as for the repentant, ranges from physical protection measures extended to family members to economic and socio-working reintegration measures. However, practice has shown that they are often subjects whose social identity is more nuanced: entrepreneurs tired of paying the lace, worn out subjects, but also relatives and similar of mobsters who intend to cut off contacts with the criminal organization. 10:34 a.m. (Follow Arrigoni). According to practice, the main problems of the current legislation are as follows: insufficient definition of the status of witness; almost general application to the witness of the protection programme alone, which results in its eradication from the place of residence; the lack of information on its rights and duties; the inadequacy of the various welfare and social worker reintegration measures; the condition of isolation of the witness resulting from the lack of certain contact persons; and the failure to foresee a time limit for the duration of the measures. The numerous application problems, as is also stated in the explanatory report of the proposed law, have led to the view that Decree-Law No 8 of 1991 could no longer constitute the regulatory substratum within which to insert further amendments to the discipline of witnesses of justice and that instead a specific law intended for such peculiar figure was needed. Among the novelties envisaged by this reform are: the redefinition of the witness of justice, anchored to more stringent parameters; the personalization and graduality of the measures (and, in this context, preference is given to the adoption of protection measures in the place of origin compared to the transfer to protected location adopted with protection program); the possibility for the witness to enjoy measures of economic support also at the place of residence, in the presence of a reduction of income capacity; the introduction of measures to safeguard the company of the witness. Then there is the establishment of a figure, the contact person of the witness of justice, who guarantees them a certain reference in their relations with the institutions, ensuring full assistance to the witness for all his needs. Finally, it is planned to introduce a maximum period of time for the measures. What we would like to point out here is one of the most significant innovations introduced with this proposal for a law which, as I said before and I repeat, is the contact person of the witness of justice. In particular, the witness of justice, together with the relative core of the other protected persons, shall have the right to use a specialist contact person of the Central Protection Service who maintains a constant direct and personal relationship with those concerned who assist during the duration of the special measures and the protection programme, as well as thereafter, until the repurchase of economic autonomy. This forecast responds to the need, also expressed during numerous hearings at the Anti-Mafia Commission, to provide the witness of justice with a precise reference point which, in particular, acts as a relationship and intermediary between them and the Central Commission for all the problems that arise following the adoption of the protection programme. I would like to start with the conclusions, ladies and gentlemen, to say that the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group shares this bill which seeks to recognise the witness of justice as the citizen who fulfils a civic duty and who guarantees and contributes with his own depositions to the identification of responsibility in the field of organised crime and not only and who, therefore, by putting himself in a situation of risk and sometimes of high danger, has the right to adequate protection measures which a serious State, out of gratitude, must guarantee him. That is why the Lega Nord and Autonomie Group will vote in favour of this bill. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and AP-CpE-NCD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u35	I greet the students and teachers of the Institute including Montelibretti, in the province of Rome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u38	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Madam President, I speak very briefly to express my appreciation for the work that has been done. We had repeatedly asked for this measure to be discussed in this House and found room to be approved before the end of the parliamentary term, because we recognise it as a huge, enormous political and social importance to combat organised crime. In fact, I believe that public opinion was struggling to understand the series, perhaps even excessive, of privileges given to the so-called repentant, to the collaborators of justice, who have not always proved to deserve the privileged treatment that the State has addressed to them: we are also talking about characters who have behind them dozens and dozens of murders, heinous sometimes, some of which, after being liberated, have even continued to delinquere and have been stained with new murders. That of repentance is certainly an important figure in the fight against the mafia, the 'ndrangheta, the camorra or organized crime, but there were all these shadows that weighed on the popular feeling of justice. The witnesses of justice are quite different, we are on the opposite side: we are talking about decent, censored people who risk their lives, their safety, their goods and social peace, also of their family, because they have the courage to be witnesses against organized crime. We are therefore particularly pleased that this measure has come to this House and that it can be adopted before the end of the parliamentary term. I therefore welcome my Group's strong vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u41	FALANGA (ALA). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, more than twenty years have passed since the day when Pietro Nava, a commercial agent, was traveling along the Canicattì-Agrigento state road and he was witnessing the murder of Judge Livatino (later known as the young judge) and did not hesitate, as soon as he arrived at his destination, to call the police and make a fundamental contribution to the identification and condemnation of the murderers. On several occasions Mr. Nava then had the opportunity to claim that he was not a hero and that he did not feel that way. Yet, his gesture has caused the twist of his life. From that moment he lived his life in the context of a system of protection that saw his first steps and that had been, in reality, thought and structured for the so-called collaborators of justice. However, the justice workers, to whom the legislator has paid much more attention, are and must be, in order to be able to make a useful investigative contribution criminal heinous who, in most cases, decide to make self- and hetero-accusatory statements for the sole purpose of escaping the severe penalties that, in fact, would deserve. Therefore, with satisfaction, without prejudice to the regret for the delay, we dismiss today the first organic regulatory intervention specifically designed for the witnesses of justice, which takes into account their specificity and the need to avoid, even at the cost of a greater economic and protective commitment of the State, and except exceptional cases, the uprooting from the territory and the interruption of the professional and entrepreneurial activities of the witness. Of course, there is a risk that some, for economic convenience, mythomania or something else (I say this with knowledge of the case, in order to be such a fact in my own city of Torre del Greco), want or can simulate having been the victim of serious crimes or having witnessed their consumption. However, the law we dismiss today has drawn a central commission, composed of qualified subjects, which are entrusted with investigations, examinations and the assessment of the truthfulness of the facts that denounces the witness, I therefore believe that this risk can be adequately marginalized and limited. Having said that, the intervention of the Justice Commission here in the Senate was a very minimal intervention because, in doing so, it would have been possible to dismiss the text today without amendment and therefore without it having to go further to the examination of the Chamber of Deputies and could, after the terms of the vacacio legis, become law in our country. We have made a contribution in this direction and we are proud to have worked together with all our colleagues. This is today a success of this Senate, at a time when the measure passes unanimously, as well as unanimously rejected the amendments. I have already voted in favour of this text by my group. With satisfaction, this excerpt from the end of the legislature really acquires a valid meaning in the interest of our country and in the fight against organized crime. [[Applause from the ALA Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u44	RICHIUTI (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Pope Francis, when he received us as the Anti-Mafia Commission at the special audience on 19 September, in the Vatican, said: It cannot be forgotten that the fight against mafias goes through the protection and valorization of witnesses of justice, people who expose themselves to serious risks choosing to denounce the violence of which they have been witnesses. A way must be found to allow a clean person to leave without suffering revenge and retaliation. The law on the protection of witnesses of justice finally arrives in this House. There is still much confusion among citizens between witnesses of justice and collaborators of justice. As one witness of justice said, Rocco Mangiardi: "Every time someone mistakenly or out of incompetence calls me a collaborator of justice, for those who like me do not come from any mafia thigh, but from a clear and precise field choice, it is a real punch in the stomach. If it were up to me, I'd rather be called simply because of what I actually feel like I've always been: a responsible citizen. One of the objectives of this law is precisely to deliberate a statute without confusing the two figures in legal, administrative and cultural terms. The witness of justice lives a condition of grave danger, so much so that he needs special protection compared to ordinary protection. In most cases the witness, with his contribution, puts into crisis the mob model and for this reason runs serious dangers. The witness of justice must have, in order to be such, specific requirements: he must not benefit from the crime he is denouncing; he must not have convictions for non-injury crimes or preventive measures against him; the testimony must be reliable and relevant for the purposes of the investigation or judgment. You see, colleagues, the story of Rita Atria always remains in our minds, which was offering justice an important contribution and had relied on Paolo Borsellino. Following the massacre in Via D'Amelio, he felt desperately lonely and took his own life. That suicide took place in the attention of the observers and the legislator as had already happened for another typical affair of the last twenty-five years, that of the Bergamo engineer who had witnessed the barbaric assassination of Rosario Livatino, and after which was issued Decree-Law No. 8 of 1991. After the entry into force of the decree-law (converted into Law No. 82 of 1991) and the protection systems provided for therein, came the tragic story of Domenico Noviello, dealer of Casal di Principe, killed six years after the end of the protection program. I could continue for a long time, citing the case of Lea Garofalo, killed in Milan by the former cohabitant Carlo Cosco in 2009, and Orsola Fallara, director of the tribute office of Reggio Calabria, mysteriously died in 2010 due to the injection of ten glasses of muriatic acid. And then again the terrible story of the builder Giuseppe Mascari, the merchant Tiberio Bentivoglio of Reggio Calabria and many others. The stories of the witnesses in danger are not films at first sight, such as that with Harrison Ford, "The Witness" are paths of ruin, abandonment, subtle betrayal and bureaucratic loneliness. The House's proposed law no. 3500 is certainly a step forward, but others will have to be done. The real problem with witnesses of justice is the publicity of their identity. This publicity would appear to be required by the procedural rule of the formation of the evidence in contradiction. Actually, it's not like that. Article 111, fifth paragraph, of the Constitution provides that this rule may be waived on grounds of proven unlawful conduct. So in the proposal that we are going to approve today we could make a more courageous choice, that is to say that the case of Mafia witnesses is certainly of proven unlawful conduct and therefore exclude the deposition at trial of witnesses of justice, in this way its identity could remain forever secret. On the details there will be way and time to discuss and we hope that in the practical application there will be no laziness and bad faith. Today the Article 1 Group - Democratic and Progressive Movement - Free and Equal votes in favour of this measure, with satisfaction and conviction. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP-LEU and Mixed-SI-SEL-LEU.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u47	GAETTI (M5S). Madam President, it is with great pleasure that I am going to vote in favour of this draft law, which has seen the Anti-Mafia Commission, of which I am Vice-President, be the absolute protagonist. It has been a complex and long work of the Anti-Mafia Commission all (I would like to stress this), assisted by the fifth committee coordinated by Mr Mattiello. Many witnesses of justice have been audited, their stories have been collected: how they live their condition, how they have been helped by the State. Of course, the institutions have also been audited, from the judiciary to the Central Commission, to the various players in the system who oversee their needs. The analysis of the situations identified revealed many critical issues, expressed in the report voted unanimously on 21 October 2014. Taking into account the considerations contained in the report, the Anti-Mafia Commission has drawn up a draft law which was presented to the House at the first signature of Mr Bindi and to the Senate at my first signature (the Senate Act 2176). I believe that today we mark a very important point in the legal civilization of our country. It was not possible to continue to regulate with the same law, inspired by the same principles and methods, people who, though they are both valuable in the fight against organized crime, are profoundly different. The collaborators of justice are people who have also been guilty of heinous crimes and have been an integral part of the mafia organizations; the witnesses of justice are normal citizens, who have suffered the violence of the mafias or who have witnessed the extortion, the blackmail, the corruptive pacts of the mafias, have denounced them and have gone to courtrooms to point out the culprits of those crimes. I think that even the numbers are indicative: it was not possible that in the same law and with the same protection systems we guaranteed the collaborators of justice, who are 1,277 with 4.915 family members, and the witnesses, who are 78, and the 255 family members. This law gives them an autonomous statute and dignity in our system which they deserved, deserved, and which they have been waiting for too long. I believe that we must emphasise this very strongly. The second aspect of the bill in question is the principle of personalization: each witness of justice and his family are people with their peculiarity, their originality, their history; it could not be expected that standardized measures would be applied for each of them. The witness of justice cannot suffer and continue to suffer what he has suffered in recent years, such as the uprooting of his territory, the change of name for himself and for his family, the abandonment of his own work, of his own territory, of his own enterprise. It is not they who must abandon their territories, but it is the mafias who, from their testimony in their territory, must be driven out, where they have been masters, have killed, have corrupted, have blackmailed. The normal from now on will be this: a witness of justice will have to be insured (he and his family) by a system of security at home, where he can continue his work and, if he is an entrepreneur, his own enterprise. I believe that we have also done well to consider the recruitment in the public administration as residual, for each witness of justice or referent accompanying him, even in the authorization of resources, which have not been few in recent years, but which have often not yielded, precisely because the same witness of justice has had to deal with profound disturbances of his life, his balance and his family. Another qualifying point is the establishment of the contact person of the witness of justice: a person of his confidence who assists him throughout the duration of the protection program and even later until the repurchase of economic and therefore social autonomy. I conclude, Madam President, with the same words as President Bindi said in the Chamber, as a sign of continuity of the Anti-Mafia Commission in the Chamber-Senate: We dedicate this law to each witness of justice, we hope it will be a little repairer of all the sufferings of these years, for each one of them and for his own families. But let us not feel relieved in our conscience as citizens, because of witnesses of justice we can do without the day on which each of us will be a witness of justice and each of us will feel a garrison of legality and citizenship against all forms of crime. [[Applause from the M5S and Art.1-MDP-LEU Groups, and Senators Fucksia and Vacciano.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to be strict in your explanations of vote, as you are already doing, in order to conclude the examination of the measure before we suspend our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u51	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). Madam President, I welcome your invitation. It is with great satisfaction that we come today to the final approval of this very important measure. For many years, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the courage and civic sense of so many men and women in this country have not been repaid, as it would have been right to do. They weren't protected, as it would have been right to do. Entrepreneurs who have denounced and simple citizens who have witnessed a crime have often remained alone and sometimes treated, by common sense, as repentant, precisely because the law regulated their collaboration in the same way. They lived with a few euros a month. Some with food packages from Caritas, others had to face processes without adequate security measures. They have lived and live in fear for themselves and for their families. All the hearings and work carried out in the Anti-Mafia Commission, which allowed us to approve, in October 2014, a report on the revision of the protection system for witnesses of justice, has made a clear picture that has given us - I believe - the elements to arrive at a thorough review of the system and this bill. Decree-Law No 8 of 1991, with which, since 2001, in addition to the collaborators, the treatment of witnesses was regulated, as has been seen from this report and from everything that has happened in the framework that has been given to us in recent years, has proved absolutely inadequate, if not even unfair. Witnesses have often paid with geographical and social isolation, losing their jobs and sometimes their homes. They have witnessed unequal economic treatment among themselves, a cumbersome and harmful bureaucracy, which often (just look at many testimonies) has made them regret even having denounced. Yet their testimonies have been fundamental to Italian justice. They were fundamental to the fight against mafia and organised crime. Thanks to them in recent years have been inflicted hard blows to organized crime and crime in general. They have made the sense of justice their reason for life and have not, in fact, been adequately protected. Their help was fundamental and, in addition to thanking them for this, we can finally, with this bill amending the decree-law of 1991 and some parts of the penal code, finally define a specific organic discipline. For this reason, as Senators of the Italian Left-Freedom and Equality, we will vote in favour of this measure, as we voted in favour of all the measures that have been made available to combat the mob phenomenon. Of course we were very late, but finally, even in the last hours of this parliamentary term, we are able to fill this gap that we have been carrying on for many years. Of course it is not a perfect measure, we know that, partly because once again there are not many financial resources. So, from this point of view, we must recognise that we are taking a huge step forward. That is why we shall be voting in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL-LEU and Art.1-MDP-LEU Groups, and from Senator Mirabelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u54	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, as I have already announced in the general debate, the Group of the European Forza Italia will vote in favour of this measure and, although some suggestions have been made for its improvement, we believe that it has found a fair balance, both in identifying the definition of the witness of justice and, essentially, in the procedure for implementing the protection measures. These measures have been correctly identified, including taking into account the need to ensure the social reintegration of the witness of justice, not only with an economic contribution, but also with a help to work. The overall assessment is certainly positive, on the one hand because of the contribution that witnesses of justice make to the administration of justice and to the determination of the responsibilities of those who are guilty of serious crimes and, on the other hand, because we need to guarantee and maintain the protection system, throughout the period in which the activity of witness of justice lasts. In this respect too, there is a correct balance in the draft law before us, both with regard to the measures, as they will be applied, and with regard to the relevant procedure, and with regard to the conditions under which the protection measures provided for and, if necessary, withdrawn are maintained. I believe that this is a generally positive measure, which has been expected for years, and that we will therefore vote with satisfaction. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u55	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the State Science High School "Elio Vittorini" in Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u58	MIRABELLI (PD). Madam President, we will vote in favour of this measure, which we have strongly wanted and which gives a clear message to the country: who chooses to serve the State, to be a citizen to the end must find in the State - and will find it after the adoption of the measure under consideration - help, support and a grateful commitment to those who endanger their security in order to combat crime and promote legality. The security of the witnesses of justice - this is the other message - cannot and must not be at the expense of the quality of their lives and that of their families. We do everything to ensure that choosing to be a witness of justice does not mean an excessive penalty, it does not mean being uprooted from one's own community, from one's own life, from one's own environment. We guarantee income, home and work and, above all, we put in place clear, transparent, effective and efficient procedures to give guarantees to those who decide to testify. Let's make sure of the times. The law gives tools for personalized paths, which take into account the risks that the witness runs and takes into account the family context. 11:06 a.m. (Following MIRABELLI). This is another important point because too many people, in these years, too many witnesses of justice have suffered too much inconvenience for having chosen to be part of the state. It must no longer happen, and this measure goes in this direction, in the right direction: to support witnesses, to establish not only the principle but above all to provide for concrete measures. Those who testify must be recognized the role he has played in defeating criminal organizations. That is the meaning of this law. Let me say that it is yet another law built in a dialogue between Parliament, the anti-Mafia Commission, associations and government. With this bill - and we wanted to end the process before the end of the legislature - we conclude a path that has produced, in this legislature, an extraordinary number of rules that have improved the anti-mafia legislation, given more strength to the state against the thighs, given more tools to the Forces of order and the judiciary to fight the mafia. Let me list some of the measures. There are 24 important measures (as stated by the Public and Free Notice) that this Parliament has done: from the reform of Article 416-b of the penal code to the rules on self-recycling, to those on eco-reactions, to the law on the caporalate, to the anti-corruption law, to the reform of the anti-mafia code and the confiscated goods. Today we are voting on an important measure and I think it is a good message, even stronger if the whole of Parliament, as I think it will be, is going to vote unanimously today. We will give a further signal, all together, of a common commitment of all the institutions of this country against the mafias. This is a message that has passed through the entire legislature. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u61	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u62	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 180 Senators voting 179 Majority 91 Favorables 179 Contrars 0 Absent 0]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Unanimously.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u63	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2719, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 2358 and 2424. The rapporteur, Senator Cirinna, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to outline the Senate Act 2719 which was adopted unanimously in the House. This text is necessary in order to ensure further protection for orphans of feminicide or in any case for all orphans of domestic crimes. In the course of the Commission's work, it was pointed out that these orphaned minors, unfortunately, normally of uxoricide, are in fact children who suffer double trauma and in the instant cursed in which, in most cases, their mother is killed by the man that this woman loved, often by the father of the children or by the man with whom this woman lived, by the other partner of the couple of the civil union, by the cohabitant, these children actually lose both parents of reference. At that damn moment, these children are immediately alone, losing the two parenting figures with whom they had grown up until then. In fact, these children are not comparable to orphans of other voluntary murders, orphans of accidents at work, orphans of violent crimes (I think, for example, to all crimes of organized crime such as the mafia, the 'ndrangheta or the camorra): in fact, those orphans lose one parent, but they still find themselves alive, attentive and welcoming another, while the orphan of domestic crimes, in losing his mother, automatically loses the father who is sentenced to life imprisonment and in any case is removed from family life. Very often these children - and this is what this text works very well - have already found themselves living in a condition of assisted violence, co-existing with this abnormal domestic violence and inevitably felt that that was their normality. These little ones grow up in conditions of extreme psychological distress, in a condition in which they believe that violence is normal, habitual, and therefore it is necessary, with this measure, to give them support. I am asked for an infinite speed and I will be very fast, illustrating the salient points of the measure. Among these, the legal aid granted to these young people, underage or adult not self-sufficient, for all the time of the legal proceedings; the aggravating circumstances of the murder, therefore an intervention on Article 577 of the penal code; Article 3, very important on the seizure of the assets of the uxoricide, to guarantee the compensation of civil damages that will then be cleared in the course of the proceedings for the benefit of minors; Article 4, which provides for a providenional, therefore a sum of money that is somehow recognized to the children of the victim who constituted a civil party and which is dismissed by the judge in favour, precisely, of the damaged parts; Article 5, very important, which provides for the indignity to succeed, with the aim of making automatic the application in case of conviction for uxoricide: we often find ourselves in the case in which the uxoricide is not only a legitimate heir as legitimated in the first instance on the property of the woman who killed, but even can benefit from the survivor's pension. Well, this is done by suspending the call to inheritance from the moment of the investigation. This discipline is also applied with regard to subjects investigated for voluntary or attempted murder against one or both parents, brother or sister, because now we are talking about orphans of feminicide to give a title to this rule, but in reality there are also other family relationships. It is also very important, in our view, Article 6, which concerns the reserve share in recruitment, as is the case for orphans or children of war invalids or orphans for victims of accidents at work. Article 7 excludes the right to a survivor's pension, so it is directly linked to what we said earlier. Article 8 refers to all the inclusive and protective social work that must be built around orphans of domestic crimes. These are assistance, counselling, support, psychological assistance and school support. We must remember that these children are particularly vulnerable and that the European Directive of 25 October 2012, No 29, considers them to be subjects that gradually move towards secondary victimisation. To brake and decrease the level of secondary victimization is the purpose of Article 8, which builds a social network around these children. Another important provision is contained in Article 9, which lays down provisions on medical and psychological assistance for these children, including the absolute reduction of all health and pharmaceutical costs. In my opinion, the most important article remains on the 10th, in the matter of the custody of orphaned children for domestic crimes. There is a strong focus on the continuity of affections and all those rules on foster care and adoption that make these institutions cumbersome and difficult to apply. These children (if they are more than one, they will try to keep them together) will be entrusted to their nearest uncles, grandparents and relatives, with whom they already have a relationship and who can welcome them and, in some way, try to heal the wound they have in their heart. Article 11 extends the Rotation Fund for solidarity with victims of mafia-type crimes, extortion requests, usury and violent intentional crimes, orphans for domestic crimes. Article 12 lays down provisions on the forfeiture from the allocation of housing for public housing for perpetrators of domestic violence, with the aim of ensuring that the children directly have the right to live and reside in public housing. With regard to Article 13, we consider it appropriate to provide, of course, with free choice when the person becomes of age, even the disowning of the surname. In fact, it is likely that when you grow up knowing that your mother was killed by your father, the latter's last name becomes a further bleeding wound in life and being. Therefore, it is planned to change the surname through the normal procedure in the prefecture. I conclude by pointing out that draft law No 2719, which has already been unanimously adopted in the Chamber of Deputies, contains the rules contained in draft law No 2358, signed by Senator Uras, whom I thank, which are therefore to be considered as absorbed. I think that we will listen to important speeches in this House on this measure. I recall the work done by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, as well as all forms of gender violence, chaired by Senator Puglisi. I believe that bringing this measure home gives a further sign of continuity compared to the many important acts that we have approved on human and civil rights. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Uras.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u65	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lo Giudice. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u66	Mr President, I would just like to say a few words about what Senator Cirinna has said about the children's audience that we are talking about. I would like to see an important argument left in the Court of Justice, which has not been translated into an amendment just because at the end of the parliamentary term we all feel the need to finally adopt those measures which no longer have the possibility of a further parliamentary passage. The House has decided to indicate, as beneficiaries of the new measures, those minor or adult children who are not self-sufficient who remain orphans because of the murder of a parent - of course we use a neutral term, but we know that, in the vast majority of cases, we are talking about the parent, the mother - in case the mother or, in more limited cases, the father are killed at the hands of her husband or, possibly, her partner in civil union or of person who has woven with the parent an affective relationship and a stable coexistence. It goes without saying that the text approved by the House has focused attention on domestic crimes, those taking place within the household. But we must not forget that, when we talk about feminicide, in many cases we talk about the killing of women by people who are not the husband, the stable partner or a former cohabitant but, perhaps, people who had an occasional relationship or who simply had a relationship only in their sick, unidirectional fantasy, not based on a true communion or even on a coexistence. It would have been very important a change of this kind in the text and it will be very important that, in the interpretation of this law, and then - who knows - perhaps, in the future, in a legislative intervention, we include in this forecast also that audience of children who remain orphans and who fall into a series of cases, which are then made of known news and - alas - sadly repeated in this country. In recent months, thanks also to the initiative of Senator Guerra, we have kept the attention of this Assembly to the continuing killing of women in our country; well, with this measure we make sure that the other victims of this massacre, the collateral ones, are adequately protected. These are children, children, to whom the State today recognizes an extra attention, precisely in order to seal the recognition of feminicide and domestic crimes as acts which this Parliament and this State assign a particular dishonor, trying to put in place all the appropriate measures to finally combat them effectively. We all know that prosecution and compensation are not enough. In order to combat this scourge, strong and important action is needed on the issue of gender relations. There is a male issue in our country that is not adequately addressed; there is the theme of a relationship between men and women that too often produces sick relationships. I believe that it is very important that, starting from cultural action, from schools, from education, we succeed in intervening on this issue, ensuring that the relationship between people and, in particular, the relationship between genders regains a dimension based on mutual respect and never on the sense of possession or even violent attitude. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Repetti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u67	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u68	Mr President, we are about to discuss a general debate in this House on a subject, the subject of the draft law at our time, which is certainly very much awaited. From 2000 to today 1,628 are the orphans of mother killed in domestic disputes, in the family. In 2015 there were 118 orphans more than in 2014. It is regrettable that the delay, often invoked by some political parties and accused of my Group, has been exploited, on a subject like this, for shameful attacks. In fact, in the text that came to us from the House there were legislative problems that required further study. Unfortunately, however, in recent years, all too often we have witnessed laws fired hastily, which will give rise to litigation. It is enough to consider the last, on the early provisions of treatment: it has been seen that only one of the points on which my Group insisted, namely the lack of conscientious objection, now - perhaps for political reasons, because otherwise it could have been foreseen before, in the law voted last week - Minister Lorenzin said that there will be changes and that it will open up to conscientious objection. Now, again for electoral reasons, probably, it has attached itself to the position of Forza Italia. I would like to remind you that the party to which I belong was the first - with a law on stalking in May 2009 - to foresee the real possibility of striking those who could commit gender violence. From other parts that now attack us, instead, unfortunately, since 2014 has been eliminated the preventive prison for the crime of stalking and in 2017, with the reform of the penal code, had even been introduced the possibility to extinguish the crime paying. The Turin court had given compensation of 1,500 euros to a woman who had been the victim of a stalker for years, who obviously refused it. Finally, recently, but very late, the Minister of Equal Opportunities, after many promises, has ensured that this possibility could be cancelled. Now, the point is that we, as Forza Italia, wanted the provisions under consideration to be extended to all orphans: let's not forget that orphans are currently compensated with about 8,000 euros, while rape is compensated with about 4,000. This was our battle, because children who remain orphans are true that they live different situations, but still remain without a parent - sometimes both - who may have been the victim of an accident at work (just think of the children of members of the Forces of Order). Orphans are orphans and are still experiencing dramatic situations: I believe that the fact that there is little money is not a justification for distinguishing between A and B-series orphans. Our desire to arrive at a shared law has been demonstrated ever since an amendment by Mr Carfagna for the allocation of EUR 2 million was adopted in the Chamber of Deputies' debate, which has now been extended to EUR 2.5 million by means of the measure. Certainly it is a great drama that affects these children, from three perspectives: they suffer the drama of being orphaned because they have lost their parents; they suffer almost a drama comparable to the war, because they are often themselves to witness this violent war at home, with weapons, shots or stabbed; then they suffer a drama similar to that of the earthquake victims, as to the promises, of which we are really tired (and the Italians, as well as empty boxes: maybe now, after two years, the earthquake victims could have the houses! The promise now is that they will arrive in February). These children certainly relive every moment a fact that you almost want them to forget. Of the reading of a book that struck me very much, "Special orphans," I remember in particular the story of a little girl, who reported that even one of her classmates had remained an orphan, but while the other was all close to her they did not talk and felt almost as if it created embarrassment. The terror and violence suffered by these children are physically materialized, because they lead them to have strong tremors, pale eyes and eyes barred; they do not sleep and in the evening are attacked by fears. They have psychic disorders, great difficulties of concentration and memory, live in conditions of isolation, instability and aggression. In any case, they are children who are torn from one moment to the next to their things, because they must rightly be given into custody - usually to relatives - and that within a few hours they no longer find anything they leave, from toys to school books. All that was their life is completely erased, modified, exactly as was said a moment ago for witnesses of justice who, within a few hours, are torn away from all their environment and the environment is made of many things (at home, things, friends, people, habits and tranquility). These children suddenly find themselves torn from all this and certainly have a great need for psychological support and constant work of psychotherapy, between foster family and school. The same foster family certainly lives a revolution in their home, from the point of view of serenity, habits, leisure, projects, climate, holidays, projects, social relations and economic possibilities. So this is a subject that certainly needs to be addressed and protected and I hope that we can talk about it freely, because then the paradoxical thing is that silence falls on these orphans, while perhaps at the media level there is much more tam-tam on the murderer, as if at the center of media concerns there is more murderer than the tragedy of those who remain. Death in itself is an event that is mute and these children need networking, psychological, social, legal, political and service skills on the ground and, in this regard, Articles 8 and 9 specify the protection they want to give. I really hope that, beyond the political speculations, which are perhaps exploited for other purposes and not for the tragedy we are talking about, we can arrive at a peaceful discussion and approval of our amendments in order to be able to agree on a really useful text, that it is something important to make those children feel that the State exists. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u69	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers, students and students of the Institute of Higher Education Francesco Filelfo in Tolentino, in the province of Macerata, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u70	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u71	Mr President, I will address you somewhat atypically as President, but also as the leader of a political force naturally also concerned about the forthcoming elections. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask you to distinguish these functions within this House. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) I distaste, but I must express all my concern and also my satisfaction... FORNARO (Art.1-MDP-LEU). You always have to end up beautiful! Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) You're a professional provocateur. Shut up sometime and try listening. FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). You're a provocateur! Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) I am delighted that they pass provisions that, being false since the title, eventually bring strength to the center-right side, because the lies have short legs. In the title of the bill we are talking about domestic crimes and orphans, but this provision does not concern orphans - and I will show you why - nor domestic crimes. It is enough to read the text to realize the castroneries we are going to do, if the amendments tabled are not accepted. Who, then, is the target of this rule? The child, first of all, and I fully agree with what she said. In the event that the father kills the mother, so the mother is dead and the father goes to jail, it is obvious that the child must have assistance and it doesn't rain that it is right that it is. But it is not written in the text: it is written that the killer must be a married person, even if legally separated or divorced; it must be a part of the civil union, even if the union has ceased, or a person who has been linked by affective relationship and stable coexistence. These are the subjects. Let us then give some examples. If the molester, or stalker, kills father and mother, because the woman refuses him, or kills a lover, because she feels betrayed, and the children remain orphans, these cases do not fall within the scope of the law. That's because the killer wasn't married. The killer wasn't part of a civil union. The killer never had a stable emotional cohabitation. In fact, he was a molester who wanted to have the woman and, having been rejected, killed her. Shall we give another example? Take the case of someone who has been married, then separated and for 20 years she has had another family and lives with another woman. Let's say 20 years later, for a series of issues, maybe of interest, kill either the father or the mother of the children. This case falls perfectly into the law, because twenty years earlier he had been married, even if no domestic crime was committed, because maybe he lives with another family and has other children, and that child is by no means orphaned because, if one of the two parents dies, he remains the other. So, it's not the right thing to say that the child is left without a father and a mother. But there is the right. If a road homicide occurs - we call it road homicide, because that is what we called it by law - in which the father and the mother die and the child remains orphaned, they are not entitled to legal assistance, because those who caused the road homicide are not married, nor are they part of a civil union, nor have they had a stable relationship in the past with one of the two persons who were part of the couple who were killed. What have we tried to do in the Commission with a thousand polemics? Has it been said that Forza Italia and the Idea-Popolo and Liberty movement would block this measure? We tried to say one very simple thing: when a child, because of a murder by a stalker or someone who was part of the family or because of a traffic homicide or carried out by a robber, is orphaned, he is guaranteed legal assistance because he has been traumatically deprived of his father and mother. This is not the case, because here the subject of the law is not the orphan: the subject of the law are married or separated persons are those in civil unions, even if they cease; they are those who have had a stable relationship. Therefore, we are going to attend children who, despite the tragedy they have experienced, still have one of the parents alive, who can attend them, and we are not going to attend, instead, children who remain orphans of father and mother having been killed, but not by one of the categories indicated in the law. Now, if you tell me this makes sense, I tell you to move on. But people can also read and write. The first time a molester or stalker kills a woman or two spouses and it turns out that the law does not protect orphans, people will wonder why. Why had there not been a stable relationship? In case a woman's lover wants to reconnect after 20 years, but she doesn't want to and so kills her - they're all reports! - What's going on? Further reflection: we say that we protect orphan children, and rightly so. But there should also be a reflection on the second part. If the gentleman who had a romantic relationship 20 years ago or the husband who had been separated for 20 years (or his wife) happens, 20 years later, to commit the heinous crime, they are rightly given legal assistance to the children, but then they are taken away from the people's home and there is confiscation. And if this gentleman who committed the murder has minor children from his new family, once he gets taken away from his house and everything is confiscated from him, what kind of guardianship do the minor children of this one have? Colleagues, if we talk about domestic murder because it's people who live together, there's a logic. If we talk about father and mother, father who kills mother or vice versa, and then one goes to jail and the other is dead and the children remain alone, this has a logic. If we say that we extend the rule also to children who are orphans, victims of murders - I am talking about what the code technically defines murders - we give them the same treatment we give to other children. We have had a discussion, including during the budget law, on harassment and stalking. I know that dialogue is difficult in this House, but I would like someone to stand up and tell me why, if a molester kills a woman because this woman does not want to have any relationship with him, the child is not an orphan for this law. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] On the other hand, if the killer is a 20-year-old person who had a stable relationship with this woman or was the ex-husband, the child receives assistance. Does anyone explain it to me? Because Parliament should serve to convince us, dialectically, of the goodness of a measure. This measure - I read part of the title because it is also requested in the end to change it - brings provisions in favour of orphans for domestic crimes. Crime is often not domestic and has nothing to do with the coexistence of men and women in their families: it is not a family crime within the family; orphans, in some cases orphans, in some other case they are not orphans, because it remains a parent to assist them (maybe, in the civil union, it is the biological parent, that is the real father, because the mother is somewhere else with those who have nothing to do with it, so it remains a parent), then there is the case of orphans who are not considered because it is an external person who killed the father and the mother. Where's the orphan? The ideological aspect lies in the fact that the question is seen from the point of view of the categories that have been marked: married ones, those of civil unions, those who have had a stable sentimental relationship in the past. But we do not start from the point of view of children: children who have been orphaned as a result of murder are entitled to legal protection, because they have the same trauma and the same problems, the same psychological tragedies, live the same drama. Why shouldn't everyone be treated the same way? Isn't there Article 3 of the Constitution? Isn't there a popular feeling that is outraged that a child doesn't have the support of institutions when traumatically he sees his parents eliminated, and the family context in which he lives and from which he is removed? These are not the cases that I mentioned before, because, I repeat, if a person who twenty years ago had an affair with one of the spouses kills him, the child stays in the same house and the child has one of the parents. On the other hand, if they kill both the father and the mother but the killer did not have a stable relationship with one of them, the child remains totally alone, without any protection. I understand that case studies need to be lined up, but when we see the amendments, you will see that this is exactly the case. I understand that there are budgetary issues. They say we have to give a signal. But the signals are given fairly: we do not give a signal by discriminating between children who are in the same situation. You will find those few extra resources to give legal assistance to even those children who are orphaned because in a street murder the family was exterminated, with the death of the father and mother; you will also find those few extra resources to give legal assistance to children when a molester killed their father, mother or both. And we would give legal assistance to everyone you say must have legal assistance, because I have nothing to object to what the rapporteur has said. I'm fine with it, just write it down, but you have to rewrite the casework, because the one planned has neither head nor tail. In the case of a person who has been separated or divorced for 20 years and who has made another family, why do we talk about domestic crime? He will be a murderer who led those children into the situation of becoming orphans and needy. On the other hand, if he has not had a stable sentimental relationship with one of the spouses but kills the parents, why does this child have no right to anything? So he's discriminated against other children and minors who are in the same situation. I call for a small effort, in the interest of the Senate in general and the credibility of political forces. Tomorrow the newspapers will say: the feminicide has been approved! By the way, here the feminicide has nothing to do with it, because the father can also be killed, not just the mother, or both can be killed. It's not a feminicide rule. It should be a rule on orphans; the sacred right should be set for all children who lose their parents because of murder. She also spoke of policemen and policemen: of course, when a policeman or a policeman is killed on duty and a child is traumatically losing his father, this too should be taken into consideration in some way. However, in this case we extend the speech, while I would like to restrict it to a very simple and truly civilized principle: to treat in the same way all children who have this traumatic encounter with reality, which deprives them of one or both parents, not to make children and stepchildren and to give a dignity to the law, making sure that it intervenes for everyone, and to take away this case history that has no meaning. If you go to consult the reports of the Justice Commission you will notice that, when colleagues of Forza Italia tried a composition, they opposed a refusal, claiming that the term "civil union" was sacred and could not be removed from the bill. However, this is not a provision on civil unions or divorce, it is a provision on children who lose their parents and it is therefore clear that the subjects are not adults, their interests, their aspirations or the fact of taking another step forward on civil rights: it is a step of civilization to protect minors. We will ask for this with the amendments tabled. It is clear that if they are not accepted, I will not be able to vote in favour of this measure on behalf of all children who will be unfairly discriminated against. Furthermore, in the event that these amendments are not accepted, the public should be aware that the measure is not for orphans, nor for domestic crimes, but it is yet another ideological manifesto to impose I do not know what vision, trampling children's rights and Article 3 of the Constitution, and creating an unsustainable situation. If I wanted to be controversial, I would ask why you exempt harassers or stalkers who kill a woman or a man, or exterminate a family, why those children are not entitled to care, just because the molester has never been married or has never been able to have a stable relationship with that woman (he was harassing her because he wanted her and she refused him). In those cases do children have assistance? No, the conditions are lacking: the parents were not married, they had not had a stable coexistence, they had not entered into a civil union and therefore that child has no assistance. We will also insist, Mr President, on the examination of the amendments, hoping that common sense will emerge and that this measure will really be done in favour of children who remain orphans, in whatever situation this happens, because of a murder, in a traumatic way, and instead it is not yet another ideological manifesto to be flaunted around the country. [[Applause from Senators Comrade and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u72	I suspend the sitting until 2 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.50 a.m. and resumed at 2.05 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u73	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the sudden disappearance of my colleague, Senator Altero Matteoli, following a tragic road accident on the Via Aurelia, near Capalbio, on 18 December, in addition to throwing family and friends into dismay, has caused an important reference figure for the political and institutional world to fail. The flowers on the place occupied by him show that he is and will still be with us. During his long parliamentary and institutional experience, Altero Matteoli held many positions that will certainly be illustrated, but I wanted to remind him that he was a man deeply linked to the values of the parliamentary institution. Undisputable is his ability to pursue solutions of political mediation, supported by a deep ability to listen and respect the positions of others. With him we lose, as unanimously recognized by friends but also by opponents, not only a high-end politician but also a loyal MP, with a friendly and courteous trait, that we have had the privilege of noting - at least I personally, being my only parliamentary experience - even in this parliamentary term. All the qualities which have enabled him to conduct public works in these years, with great balance and authority, the meetings of the Commission. I would therefore like to express the emotional condolences of the Senate of the Republic to the family of Altero Matteoli, as well as to the friends and political community, affected by the disappearance of a man of the institutions and an important exponent of the Italian right. I call on the House to observe one minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u76	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to greet the family of Altero, the family of President Matteoli. His wife Ginevra and his sons Federico and Federica are seated in the stands. [[General applause at the Forums]] I address them a greeting on behalf of all the Senators of Forza Italia and I also thank the other Groups. I would like to say a few words more for my friend Altero than for the politician, for the man of the institutions who all, in this House but also outside, have had the opportunity to know, appreciate and estimate. The certificates of esteem and affection of these days have been very many, starting from the many fellow senators of all sides, of all the parliamentary groups represented in this House. I will then leave the word to Vice President Gasparri who shared with Altero many years of political battles, party militancy, friendship and life, but if the bond that I had to tighten with Altero was certainly more recent than what linked him to President Gasparri was not less intense. Our political paths have allowed us to meet so many times over the last twenty years. We have also been to the Government together, but it was above all the sharing of these benches in the Senate that allowed us to develop even more a relationship of extraordinary friendship. A report that has gone beyond membership of the political party itself and of the parliamentary group itself. I, colleagues, on December 18, lost a friend, a dear friend, a man I esteemed, whom I loved very much. [[Applause.]] A man whose advice I listened to, with whom I shared opinions, reflections, with whom I always consulted before making political decisions and with whom I loved to make politics, because the political passion for Altero was indisputable and was able to transmit it even when we lost enthusiasm, felt it or saw it demeaned. I have always appreciated the strength, the determination, but also and above all - as many have said - the extraordinary capacity for mediation. I would have liked to focus only on the human qualities of Altero, but I cannot fail to point out, at the bottom of my brief speech, that Italian politics has lost in him a man of great, extraordinary experience, of great and extraordinary value, of great and extraordinary quality. The loss of Altero, President Matteoli, leaves in all of us and in me a truly unbreakable void. [[General applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u79	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on Tuesday, when I was in the chair of this House, with great difficulty and effort, I had to announce a news that caught everyone in a sudden and painful way, not only those like me and others who shared with Altero decades - because this is what it is - of common life, but I would say more broadly the political community, the world of institutions, as we have also seen in these hours, greeting with affection the family, children and Geneva (which Altero knew in Parliament, because Geneva was a parliamentary journalist, so this connection was also born in the practice and frequentation of the places of democracy and institutions). Altero Matteoli, according to some stereotypes, is, like me and others, a professional politician. I take this opportunity to reject this definition, because in my opinion the opposite is true: political professionals are those who at some point in their lives leave another activity and go to be a momentary candidate. Altero Matteoli has been a political militant, like so many of us in this House and they proudly claim this definition of militancy, of belonging to a side, of witnessing to ideas: something I do not know today if it is understood as it used to be. Altero did not like rhetoric; you have known him, his sobriety and his concreteness require us to avoid speeches of manner, but instead I try to give space to a few heartfelt considerations. Altero has been a man of action, in our parties, in the reality of the center-right, he has always dealt with organization, to find understandings, to prepare elections; of the concrete things of politics, because then everyone speaks but it takes someone to organize the tools to represent the ideas. However, this strong attitude, then shown also in governments, infrastructure and the environment, has always seen him engaged in managing, even sometimes among the polemics, but always with the respect of everyone and without giving up his ideas, concrete and operational things. But he was also a man of thought, so a little thought and a little action, a dichotomy that leads us to the Risorgimento, to which also many signs of this House call us. Magazines, foundation, conferences, debates: Altero was not only an untiring organizer, but also a promoter of thought capable of listening and affirmations, and also in recent weeks with his foundation, in addition to political action in Forza Italia, he promoted meetings and conferences to hold the ranks of a coalition (and we all know, in their respective areas, how difficult and difficult it is). Altero also held a consistent line. I happen to share this path. We have come from a political right of which we are proud, that of the Italian Social Movement, the turning point of Fiuggi, of National Alliance and of the People of Freedom (a large side, which then shattered), and today we are in Forza Italia and with Berlusconi to retrace an attempt at unity of the center right. So, there is a thread in this path, in order to create an Italy in which great groups - today, alas, all with their labors - can be democratically compared and peacefully contend with the government of the country. Even in these days, Altero has testified to this choice. Colleagues, Altero Matteoli was the only Minister in all governments led by Silvio Berlusconi (the one from 1994 and the others) and not because he was scalping behind armchairs, but because his reliability and solidity had evidently led him to be always next to our leader of the center-right, in prominent positions both in the party and in the coalition, and in the Governments. Today were present not only President Gentiloni Silveri, Matteo Renzi, Undersecretary Boschi and other Ministers, but also Presidents of the Region, such as Roberto Maroni, Giovanni Toti and Nello Musumeci, and colleagues of the Senate (some like Maroni, who shared years of Government with Altero): we saw them witnessing with sincere participation and true condolence. Starting to conclude, I want to stress that, as we all know, Altero has also experienced some bitterness in recent months. His reputation didn't suffer. I do not want here to open up polemics on other issues, but just to remember that he has lived with composure even bitter events and that colleagues, of any side and even the most antagonistic ones, have brought him great respect. Matteoli was re-elected President of the Commission in the middle of the legislative term, although his Group was in the minority, to the opposition. For the estimation of the person and not for parliamentary subterfuge, colleagues from other sides felt that his experience would be more useful than a change in the race, which would have been legitimate, as politics - everyone knows it well - can entail. I conclude by saying that, in his memory, one could say that the experience and wisdom that everyone has praised - and I also address my younger colleagues - count more than the "breaker" heat: we scrape, break, return. For goodness sake, replacement is part of life and politics, but experience and wisdom, in times of fragmentation, are fundamental resources, which Altero has given us all. Sometimes, a judgment and an unjust decision count less than the reputation that Altero accompanied until the last moment. I don't want to give in to the emotion, but I thank all those who are honoring him. There are those who, like me, had the opportunity to share decades with him. I don't even know when we met. Being militants of different generations we met at some point in our lives and shared our experience until the last moment. I remember last Monday's phone call, during which we talked about the current things. I mean to those who consider us a caste that Matteoli died alone, driving his car, like a militant, not like a man of the caste. [[General applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u80	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u81	Mr President, Senators, on behalf of the Government and my staff, I would first like to express to family members and then to friends, parliamentary colleagues and those who have lived with Altero Matteoli the political passion, the sincere condolences of the Government and the feeling of closeness at a time of such great pain. The tragic and sudden disappearance of Senator Altero Matteoli has aroused dismay throughout the political world, far beyond the confines of his deployment, as a witness to a personality that has been able to distinguish itself by coherence, passion and dedication to the institutions. I told the son today that he must be proud of his father's legacy, because he has always demonstrated, in his relationship with the Government, a great dedication and a great institutional sense. I have personally appreciated the competence, loyalty and professionalism that President Matteoli has shown in his capacity as President of the Commission, public works, communications. This has happened several times: in these three years we have succeeded several reforms together. As a demonstration of a very high institutional sense, he has never asked for any action by the Government to be taken in order to be able to carry out the measures; he has always asked for and obtained the opportunity to discuss the substance of the issues. This, I believe, is an example of great loyalty to the needs of citizens, first of all, because we make laws for citizens. He entered Parliament, the Chamber of Deputies, in 1983, in the ranks of the Italian Social Movement. He was a right-wing man, so very far from my ideas; a man who was proud to be able to take part, but I can say that he could take part without being biased, without being deaf to the reasons of the opponents. This is an element of great quality, a testimony and an inheritance that I believe we must jealously collect and preserve in this phase of transition of the Republic. He had an intense ministerial activity: he was called to be Minister of the Environment and Minister of Infrastructure and Transport; in the Ministry that I now have the honour to preside he also played a very important role in defining the connection of the High Speed Turin-Lion; in very difficult times, he signed the agreement with the local authorities; he knew, in those years, to give life to an important and important home plan for the country. The attention to local authorities was also shown when he decided to accept the position of mayor of Orbetello, between 2006 and 2011, demonstrating a "strange" look, which I believe is another important legacy that we should keep in mind: the "strange look" of those who know how to look at the national interest, the interest of the country, without forgetting its roots in the local community, without forgetting the intelligence and proximity to the local communities. With Altero Matteoli there is a lack of a political personality that, in particular in the season that has opened now more than twenty years ago, has contributed with determination and - I believe - scrupulously, to the attempt to modernize our country and our system, because without ever betraying its parliamentary nature aimed at a more mature capacity of government and a more mature decision-making ability. I renew to his family and to all of us, who have loved him, the sincere condolences and the commitment to keep alive the memory of his action. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u84	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, this morning we paid tribute to Altero Matteoli to the burning chamber here in the Senate and we greeted his family with emotion, to whom I renew my greetings, also on behalf of the senators and senators of the Democratic Party. We now honor him here in the Chamber. I, if I had to say one word about him, I'd say he was a man, and if I could add one adjective, I'd say he was a serious man. (14.23) (ZANDA followed). With Altero Matteoli for many years we have observed ourselves from afar, from the two sides of the Senate, from the center-right of the hemicycle and I from the center-left. But this is also the case in Parliament, which is observed at a distance and, from a distance, is recognized. So it happened between Altero Matteoli and me and I think I can say that, despite the distances, we knew each other well and we thought each other. By saying that he was a serious man, I mean not only that he directed the Commission he presided over with great seriousness and balance, but also that I saw him follow the sometimes complicated events of his political side, without ever betraying his thinking and his positions and without ever denying his history. It happened, as President Gasparri recalled earlier, when the National Alliance, of which he was one of the highest leaders, merged with Forza Italia in the People of Liberty; it happened when the People of Liberty, because of the split, returned to being Forza Italia and it happened again in the last months, when the entire centre-right was crossed by a debate, partly pre-electoral, but partly consistent and also political reorganization. In all these phases, Altero Matteoli remained himself. Although being on the other side of the hemicycle, from where I followed it, it can often mark a strong distance, I have always grasped and respected its consistency and balance. He had a quiet trait, sometimes grumpy and sometimes almost serene. I saw him start in the Chamber or in the conversations we often have during the proceedings only when the debate became political: his nature took over then, as if he did not want to leave doubts about his being sided with his side. I saw him return serene on April 2, 2015, when he took the floor in the Chamber, not to defend himself from the accusations about the Venetian story of MOSE, but to ask that the Senate let him judge by the judiciary, because he refused the shield of immunity, as well as the hypothesis of the plea. [[General applause.]] He declared his innocence and wanted it to be declared by a judgment of the judges, without circumventing the justice, of which he also denounced the errors, using parliamentary immunity. On April 2, I listened carefully to Altero Matteoli and admired his dignity, composure and even institutional decorum. At a time when the temptation to escape criminal judgment is frequent, Altero Matteoli, with his head high and with a firm voice, that judgment asked and almost demanded it. Looking back at that morning and its request to be judged by the judiciary as a common citizen, I regret - and I must say this today - that I did not applaud and that I did not do so only for reasons of deployment, he on the right and I on the left. I didn't do it then, but I do it symbolically today, applauding and greeting him with such consideration and respect, on behalf of the senators and senators of the Democratic Party and my staff. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u87	MORONESE (M5S). Madam President, I take the floor on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement to offer our deepest condolences to the family of Senator Altero Matteoli, President of Commission 8a, public works and communications, for this sudden and tragic loss. Notably, our political positions have seen us on opposing fronts, but there is the human aspect that must always be respected. We can certainly testify that, as President of the Commission, he has always honored his institutional role, impartially towards all senators, by majority and opposition. This has always enabled us to work in an organized and profitable way, even if in the radical difference of opinion on the various issues raised during the parliamentary term. On behalf of all the Senators of the 5 Star Movement, I renew the most heartfelt and sincere condolences to the family. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u90	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL-LEU). Madam President, my personal acquaintance with Senator Matteoli is relatively recent. It begins, in fact, with this legislature, the XVII, with the election of Altero as President of the 8th Commission, where I am appointed as Vice President of opposition. It is clear, therefore, that the substance of the main measures has always been clear and straightforward. But that is precisely the point, which without any rhetoric I call extraordinary: the absolute institutional respect for the prerogatives and responsibilities that derive from the office held and the free exercise of the ideas and proposals that they consider to support and assert. This was seen through the quality and quantity of the work carried out by the 8th Commission, often united and frank, autonomous in its relationship with the Government. He has been a certain supporter of the realization, for about twenty years, of the Tyrrhenian motorway; I have been, and I remain, fiercely opposed to this project, but one thing I absolutely want to say: he has never improperly exercised his role and, moreover (more importantly), on the need to have maintenance, ordinary and extraordinary, of securing the most critical traits, both in the official offices of the Commission and in the numerous informal talks that characterized the minutes before and after the sessions, has always expressed the need to proceed for the parties that would not compromise the alternative solutions but, quickly, would have assured the populations and territories concerned immediately. Recently, before a sitting in the 8th Commission, he said aloud: "Have you heard that hard surgery, but also beautiful did Senator Cervellini in the Chamber?" I, in thanking him, answered him: President, but you were not in the Chamber. How can you say that? He said to me: I was in the office to work, to prepare the documents and talk to the auditors we call to the Commission, but I always follow the debate in the House. I respect and listen to what is said in the Chamber. And it was absolutely true, because it intervened on the substance of the things I said on that occasion. I recalled this because this highlights a characteristic that we often discussed: that of a rigorous policy that is often no longer there, of study and listening that, even in the harsh confrontation, even more so, must not fail. Today it is rare to find these figures and it is absolutely nostalgia rogue that moves me to carry out these considerations, not at all: it is the necessity, all projected into the future, to reconstruct in comparison even hard, made of visions and proposals clearly alternatives, respect for the ideas of the opponent, the underlying loyalty, daughter of the depth of the essence of knowledge, not improvisation and a joke more or less guessed. And he didn't miss the irony. In fact, I remember countless hilarious and extraordinary punctuations for timing and depth. Some time ago I said to him, in one of these free chats: You know, Altero, in 1984 I was very young. I was a young communist. The death of Enrico Berlinguer marked me deeply as well as, the day before the funeral, to see in a row, as a common citizen and along with thousands of comrades and compañeras, Giorgio Almirante who went to honor the figure of the opponent in the fiery room set up in Via delle Bottega Oscure. He did it, Almirante, the sharpest of his opponents. Today we have to get out of the damn pendulum of our present daily life that oscillates between fateful hatred and misjudged incitement. I received, therefore, on that occasion, a lesson of life and for this reason, with absolute modesty, without wanting to make any direct comparison, I offer the most heartfelt and sincere condolences to his loved ones, to his family, to his friends of life and party, who were lucky enough to admire and be close to many years in Altero Matteoli. I do this on my own behalf and of the Group of the Italian Left-Liberaries and Equals. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u93	WHITE (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have learned with deep sorrow of the disappearance of Altero Matteoli, an exit of the scene made more painful for the dramatic way in which it happened: a broken life, many projects and initiatives left suspended. With him no doubt one of the great protagonists of Italian politics of the last twenty years and in particular of the center right; of that center right, whose memory I carry in my heart, in which various political traditions had managed to find a happy amalgam around the figure of Silvio Berlusconi, moderate and popular leadership to which must be recognized the merit and even the ability to insert the Italian Social Movement in the Republican bee. Altero Matteoli, even if he came from a cultural and political formation different from mine, I have never heard him far and far away and, when at the beginning of this legislature we took different paths, his behavior was always marked by fairness and mutual respect; this is because he was a man of the institutions, capable of making politics without screaming, always putting before questions of merit that did not overflow or expire on staff or offense. In 2015 he was a giant in this House: he gave us all a lesson as a true man of state. I like to remember this very thing about him today, about his political being, and I am sorry that he cannot be a protagonist engaged in this difficult and delicate electoral round: at a time when the country risks slipping along the inclined plan of populism, exasperation and intolerance, his wisdom, his realism but above all his being a good person would have been precious qualities. Madam President, I am deeply Christian and Catholic and I know that Altero is already in the paradise of the righteous. From there he will still be the man of the institutions and will be a point of reference for anyone who has known and loved him. Madam President, let me extend to the family and to the whole of the Forza Italia Group in the Senate the condolences of the whole Group of Popular Alternatives. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u96	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL-UDC). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Altero has left, leaving us bewildered, stunned, unbelieving, leaving us with a sense of profound disturbance, but also of great loneliness. Regardless of the political colors, the words I have heard here and which are not the result of the circumstance, I await the authoritativeness of those who have spoken them, convince me that the recognition given to Mr Matteoli is the result of a deep conviction of the quality that this friend of ours has accompanied in the course of his political and human history. We have all been witnesses - with so many of you in these legislatures - of the quality of Altero, in the sobriety expressed in an extraordinary way, a sobriety in the language that was dry. He was a man who loved to listen more than to speak, endowed with a great sense of balance, peace, competence, talent, but also of a profound value faith. They are the qualities that accompany a politician and make him a man of the institutions that deserves to be remembered. But behind that seemingly harsh or gruesome look - as my friend Zanda said - there was in fact the calmness of language and his face glowed whenever there was talk, inside and outside the Houses of Parliament. After Pinuccio Tatarella, I believe that in fact it was well defined as the Minister of Harmony, because with Altero one could not fail to get along, because he was the man of the agreement. It was man who recognized politics as the value of dialogue as an indispensable condition to build a project beyond the deployments, beyond the political factions; a perspective that would give the country the quality of the work that takes place here. He had said several times that, in politics, the most beautiful moment is when an opponent seeks you to recognize your value. And again, he said that in politics no one ever wins completely and no one ever loses completely, meaning that in politics common sense must always prevail and the path of mediation in order to find the points of balance. I believe this is the legacy of Altero that remains in our heart and in our memory. Those who deal with great things testify that gloriousness gives the mighty man a second life, that is to say that, after death, the name that remains of good works shows that one still lives after death. These words, which the great poet delivers on the mouth of Brunetto Latini, lead me to say that the best way to honor our illustrious colleague and dear friend lies in our ability to preserve his legacy and to transform it into a daily example in order to return more and more dignity to politics. I conclude by addressing to the family the affectionate thought of closeness and condolences of the Group Grandi Autonomie e Libertà, recalling what I said to his beloved wife and children: he leaves them a great legacy, but he also leaves us a legacy that joins the pride and pleasure of having known him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u99	Sonego (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with sentiment I am addressing the family, the parliamentary group and the party to which I belong to express the condolences of the Parliamentary Group Article 1-MDP-Liberi and Equal. And I would also like to associate my personal condolences with the political and human tribute, which comes from a not very recent visit by Senator Matteoli. I met Matteoli many years ago, both in the performance of institutional functions, and on those many occasions I had the opportunity to see that, while starting from very distant political positions, Senator Matteoli, Minister Matteoli, never failed the ability to express the constitutional spirit of loyal collaboration. And this has always been present, even when those who speak to you and Minister Matteoli were bearers of divergent policy options. This is already a first important recognition to a human and institutional figure. Senator Matteoli was a man of institutions but, to introduce a political reflection to which I attach some importance, I would add that Senator Matteoli was also a man of the Republic. The history of the second post-war period of the Italian right tells us that, for a short period of national life, the Italian right acted in the institutions, although it did not fully recognize itself in the Constitution and the Republic. Then there was an important phase, which was recalled - and it seems very nice to me that that call was made - by Vice President Gasparri: there was a phase in which the Italian right, with the turn of Fiuggi, decided to make a pact with the nation, wanting to share in the heart the values of the Republic and the Constitution. That was an important step for the Italian right, but it was an important step for the Republic and was an important step for all Italians; a step that allowed to overcome one - not the only - of the Italian political anomalies of the post-war period. In saying these things I would also like to remind you that Senator Altero Matteoli was the protagonist of that season and, precisely because he was so relevant on that page of Italian history, he was not only - as I said earlier - a man of the institutions, but he was to the end a man of the Republic. For this reason, I believe that we owe Senator Matteoli great democratic recognition to his contribution to Italy and to Italian democracy. With these expressions, which are certainly the result of a political reflection, but they are also the result of my personal human experience, I renew the condolences of my Parliamentary Group and my staff to the family, to the parliamentary group of belonging and to the political strength of our friend Matteoli. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u102	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to say a few words and I apologise for the shortness of my speech, which must not be interpreted as disrespect for the figure of my colleague, but I have been genuinely uncertain whether to speak until the last minute. I knew him little, but during the months I took part in the work of the 8th Commission I was able to appreciate his qualities as President: a balanced President, a person very attentive to his role and I believe one of the best interpretations of the role of President. And I can say that without fear of saying something fallacious, being indeed profoundly true. I happened to participate with him in a mission, during the inspection of the tunnel of the Third Pass in Liguria, and also on that occasion I was able to appreciate his capacity for dialogue with the local authorities and with those who were dealing with the work. And my appreciation increased on that occasion too. I remember in him a colleague very capable of mediation and very willing to listen. With me in particular, I think he had a good personal relationship, for those few words that sometimes exchange outside the specific themes of the Commission. I offer my personal and heartfelt condolences to the family for the serious loss and to all those who, in the belonging Group and in the party in which they have so long been militant, are missing it and are suffering from its absence. I join with the pain of the whole House and I believe that the whole nation is losing a colleague, a former Minister, a person who we will all regret and obviously do so on behalf of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u105	Mr Barani (ALA). Dear Minister, as I used to call you, the last thing I ever thought I would do, as a Member of Parliament, is to be the one to bring your memory on behalf of the Group, obviously addressing a thought also to your family members. Your friend Denis Verdini should have done it, but the emotion, the tears, the pain would overwhelm his words and, therefore, he asked me to do it, but your friend is here, behind me. At my side there is another great and ancient friend of yours, who for many years shared with you a long militancy, namely Francesco Amoruso. Dear colleagues, the history of Minister Matteoli is that of a political career of very high profile and long course, in which he walked the road of the Italian right and the Italian Social Movement, where he held the important position of responsible of the organization, then with Fiuggi and the birth of National Alliance, living the genesis of the PdL and then in the party of Forza Italia, in which he landed. He was one of the few real politicians who, beyond the political color, really liked everyone. This has been demonstrated by the members of the 8th standing Commission who, thanks also to our decisive participation, elected him President at the first vote, as some colleagues have already mentioned. Crosswise, we felt he was the right person in the right place. This feeling, dear Altero, was well interpreted by Minister Delrio, who brought the words and closeness of the Government, in the memory of the dialectic that there was, with you President of the Commission and with him representative of the Ministry that you had previously occupied with your great abilities. Your great abilities, recognized by all, I believe that Cardinal Re expressed them well this morning in the Church, saying that you were an honest and capable politician. I think this is the most important testimony that could have been made about you, because really about your abilities and honesty, in fact, no one could have said anything else. Colleagues, she loved politics, thought it important and did not include the populist drift and improvisation, which she had in recent years. He was the man of the institutions, he was the man of politics and he was next to the people. I remember him a young adviser in a land near me, that of Aulla, where I made the mayor - I see present in the Chamber undersecretary Ferri - and often, as counselor of Castelnuovo di Garfagnana, a small village, came to us mayors - from me to Aulla - to make themselves available for everything we needed. He was really close to us, as he was close to the people during the flood of Aulla, coming among the people to understand what their needs were. And the same thing happened after the Eagle earthquake. He was really a man among people, people and people. He took the course of honours: he started as a city councilman of a small municipality, then of the great Livorno to get to be the mayor. He understood the importance of dialogue between administrators, mayors and parliamentarians. And then he held the ministries of public works and the environment in an excellent and noble manner, with great unanimous capacity. We are remembering a man who has really brought institutions to the highest levels on every occasion. That is why on my behalf, on behalf of our President Denis Verdini, his friend Amoruso and all the colleagues in the Group, we embrace his wife Geneva and his children. We are proud to have known him, to have been close to him and to have shared many battles. To you his memory and our hug because you were lucky enough to have him alongside him all these years. We embrace you warmly and warmly, because we believe that at this moment you have truly lost the most precious and important thing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u108	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would never have thought and never wanted to commemorate Altero Matteoli, a friend. Many of us today remember not only a colleague, but above all a dear friend. Personally I have known and appreciated his work in the not easy role of Minister, a role he has played with great skill and skill, managing with skill to limit the political pressures, favoring the real necessity of the work and the works. Altero had the courage to promote and support infrastructure works expected in our country for more than thirty years in those territories that, due to their marginality, have always suffered the cold political bargaining. The example of Altero is a teaching: his history, his political passion, his passion for the Government. In the end, politics always means becoming passionate about the government, about the problems of communities, whether small or large. And he was not only Minister but also Mayor, who perhaps is the role that best exalts the qualities of a man. Ladies and gentlemen, in this House political passion often divides us, the struggle is sometimes harsh and unscrupulous; but relationships of extraordinary human intensity are also created, based on rules that are difficult to explain, favored by the ability of those who, like Altero, with authority and great intelligence, succeed in directing daily politics on a more noble ground. In this respect, I believe I can say that, in this parliamentary term in particular, in the role of President of the Commission, Mr Altero was able to surprise us. To reconcile its important political function with that of President of the Commission was not simple and at all obvious. Thanks to his wise conduct, he has enabled us to give the best of ourselves, majority and opposition. Thanks above all to him, we have done a good job, ladies and gentlemen of the 8th Commission. We have been able to harmonise differences, promoting common sense in choices. Your reconfirmation to the Presidency of this Commission speaks for itself. At this moment when anti-politics is increasingly strong and everything seems to be fierce against us, the example of Altero, even more so in this legislature, dear colleagues, teaches us that if we want to reconcile with the country, this is the way. There is nothing new to invent, except to rediscover the service to the community and the humility of contact with the people and the search for concordance, just as Altero pursued in his long political career. Dear colleagues, Madam President, on behalf of the North League, I would like to express our closeness to the family at this moment of great sadness, hoping that time will partly fill the gap that Altero has left us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u111	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here today for a task that I never wanted to carry out and that I never thought I would have to carry out. I say this first of all to the family members, to the collaborators of Altero, to the Forza Italia Group, to whom my personal condolences and those of the Federation of Freedom Group go. In circumstances such as this one is always at risk of slipping into rhetoric, and I know perfectly well that I run this danger in saying that if some of us have lost a fraternal friend, we have all lost an esteemed and well-loved colleague, the institutions of the Republic have lost a valuable servant and politics has lost a passionate and loyal interpreter. Above all, I do not think it is an exercise of mere apologetics to say that the figure of Altero has embodied politics in its noblest meaning. His biographical story has crossed the generations and epochs; he has followed the evolutions of the political framework since the times of the Social Movement, without ever losing the sense of militancy as a figure of a commitment; he has cleared much more than other biographies, which have had even greater opportunities, those factors of uprightness, Gentilhommerie, conciliating rigor that were proper of his culture of origin and that would be the moment that everyone in the country, even those who are proud ideological opponents, would recognize. Altero fell as a militant, on that cursed road that he had beaten a thousand times and that, after a period of unjust bitterness, on Monday he was happy to return to travel to launch himself into a new electoral campaign. And as a militant he has lived the many roles that life has led him to play, from the era of the Social Movement to the advent of the centerright of government that has seen him undisputed protagonist, until this tormented legislature that once again he has crossed with his trait at the same time identity and mediator. The point is that Altero loved politics; he lived it with instinctive passion but knew the rules and knew how to respect them. For this reason he enjoyed the respect of all, friends and opponents, to the point - it has been said - that he was reconfirmed President of an important Senate Commission while being a member of the opposition. For this reason, in the most difficult moments for our political part, he went on the field with his attitude to resolve disputes without settling on the ideal plane, helped in this by a human charge of rare intensity. In this legislature he is remembered for example engaged with his friends Paolo Romani and Maurizio Gasparri to try to avoid in any way the painful separation within that People of Liberty that he considered, in my opinion rightly, one of the happiest political intuitions of our time. And more recently, when the diaspora seemed irreversible and the centerright started to an inexorable deflagration, it was there to cultivate a unitary dream, considered then an exercise of not lucid folly; it was a sort of Tatarella in Livorno version, even more concrete and projected on the present, that it was not afraid to pass as visionary and that dream believed when few considered it feasible. I was lucky enough to be a direct witness, because in the public initiatives put in place to facilitate this path Altero gave me the honor to be at his side, allowing my foundation to collaborate with his, which was for him a reason of great pride, stimulus of political thought and forge of human warmth, and that he will be able to go on in his name. We're gonna miss Altero a lot. We will miss his passion, his wisdom his authority. We will miss the irrepressible irony with which he was able to season even the hardest passages and which, for him who had a deep respect of the opponents in politics, became overwhelming when it was a matter of inflaming opponents in the field of football. He juventino all the way to the marrow, I passionate fan of Naples, we used to make fun of each other at every day of the championship. On the occasion of the last reverse inflicted by his Juventus to my Naples, he instead had pity. He refrained from teasing, and the next day he asked me if I appreciated the gesture. Of course, I realized that it was just a different way of teasing; a mild and affectionate way, as Altero knew to be in politics and in life and as we will remember for every day to come. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u114	Mr Manconi (PD). Madam President, Minister, Senators and Senators, I have not had with Altero Matteoli that familiarity and custom that allow the use of such a demanding term as a friend. However, I have asked to speak in order to recall here two episodes of our albeit slender report, which I believe to be not just two details, but facts revealing significant and profound elements of his personality. The first belongs to the national political chronicle of this country and dates back to 2006, when, in July, Parliament passed a controversial law and, however - in my opinion - so important and sacrosanct as the provision of indult. Altero Matteoli was the only - I stress the only - of the entire centre-right side who voted in favour of the measure and who, lonely and proud, claimed its wisdom in the following months and years. And it was among the very few who did not deny its value, even among those who also voted for it, but then quickly rejected it, rejected it and disowned it. That episode - in my opinion - is significant of a conception of individual freedoms and a focus on the rights of the person who is not so widespread within his own ranks. The second episode is more recent. Back in Parliament after many years, in this legislature I was asked by him for having heard me develop, through Radio Radicale, a kind of praise of militancy. We met at lunch and he told me, with great intensity, about his conception of politics. And, with an attitude made also of a certain audacity in overcoming a leap only ancient boundaries and perimeters, he spoke of that generation - as he defined it - made of those who had attacked the posters on the walls, that is, those who had interpreted the militancy as a kind of close relationship between private life and public existence. And with this he revealed a sort of solidarity with those, not only different from him for cultural and political positions, but often opposed to him - and in previous years, in years now far away, the opposition was not only drastic and radical, but often, as is known, it was aggressive opposition - revealed, in his eyes, this sort of commonality in the same idea of politics as fullness of human action, namely, as passion, term that recurred in his words, although usually sober, even dry and often intentionally and deliberately unsadorne and disenchanted. In that conversation (which I remember with precision, even if it's been a few years) he wanted to illustrate to me this idea of militancy that he knew that I shared; a militancy made of that passion and - I would say - of something that can be called an instinct, a close relationship between private life and public life, dedication and sacrifice: politics as something terribly serious. Well: this conception of militancy, in a time that sees the politics so denigrated, so fragmented, so mortified, I think it remains a very important lesson, which applies to all of us, beyond all sides, beyond any opposition, beyond any divergence. I think we can all be grateful for this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u117	SCHIFANI (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I will be brief, partly because my Group president, Gasparri, has already duly commemorated his friend Altero. I could not, however, escape, even for my personal history, from resigning some of my reflections and memories towards my friend; a friend who considered politics a policy of solid values: the spirit of self-denial, confrontation and respect. He was a high-school politician, who saw me beside him, in the 15th legislature, as President of my Group (he is the President of the National Alliance Group, sitting in these benches), in an action of political contrast, sometimes heated, but always correct, towards a government politically weak for parliamentary numbers. They have been years of confrontation, years of collaboration; years in which one could, with attitudes that have never been lacking in Altero, those of confrontation and responsibility, find points of synthesis, in a logic of convergence, to bring out the contradictions of a government action that complained of its own heterogeneity of political forces. With Altero we have often faced each other, from him I have learned the logic of reflection and, at times, also of understanding in moments of strong parliamentary political dialectic. We will miss Altero, all of us, and he will fail as an example of a person to whom we will look as a teaching of politics of reason, understanding, mediation and love towards our own people. He fell on the field, as his friend Maurizio Gasparri said, working for the territory, driving his car, while he turned his land. He would meet with his militants, his people. Here, the example that leaves to us and also to the new levers is that of responsibility, the ability to reflect and respect against the opponent. Altero was a right-wing man, but the right does not necessarily mean extremism: at all. It is a right of values, for which we have spoken of the after Fiuggi, by my colleague Manconi and others; it is also composed of men like Maurizio and Altero, great friends, who have honored - and continue to do so - the values of unity of the coalition, for which Altero has always fought. How many times have I attended restricted meetings of my party in which the word of Altero Matteoli was that of the wise, of the man heard by Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, of which it was always necessary to take great care, because it was that of composition, mediation, never of confrontation. We will miss Altero, I will miss him and I think Italian politics will miss him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u118	I once again express to the family the greeting and embrace of the Senate. [[Applause.]] The commemoration of Senator Altero Matteoli ends here. [[The President stands up and with you the whole House. General applause at the Forums.]] I am suspending the sitting, which will resume at 3.25 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 3.18 p.m. and resumed at 3.28 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u119	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u120	Mr President, the measure we are considering is a very welcome one. We often talk about the phenomenon of women who are killed by their husbands, comrades, ex-husbands and former comrades, creating not only an obvious tragedy in itself for the woman who is killed, but also leaving orphans in particularly difficult conditions, as they have lost their mother in one way and their father in another. As a result, it has been decided to introduce measures, all of which are acceptable, for children in this situation. The need I have described has its full justification. How many times has a law, which is entirely right and completely necessary, started even for a single case that has highlighted some shortcomings in legislation or, in any case, the need to renew it, to introduce new measures or to delete old ones? But the measure, even if it is born in this way, must then be studied so that it has its balance, its sense, its constitutional criteria, and must not stop at the individual case. Of course, in this case it is not a single case, because it is a series of cases - we know - that have made this need felt, but they must make sense of a number of similar cases which may present the same conditions as the need to adopt this law. We have argued - and it seems obvious - that the law certainly has to deal with the case of those children who find themselves having lost, as I said, the mother in one way and the father in another; the mother unfortunately forever while the father is not always alive, because there are frequent cases where, after having perpetrated a uxoricide - there are also many cases in which it is not a uxoricide, but the killing of the former partner - these people commit suicide. Otherwise, he rightly goes to prison, even for a long time, and often his parental authority is taken away, so these children find themselves in a particular situation. However, we cannot be less deserving of protection for all children who, as a result of violent crimes, are in a similar situation, suddenly, with the possibility not infrequent, neither with regard to the so-called feminicide nor with regard to other types of violent crimes, that they may even have suffered directly from a trauma themselves, so not only the loss of the parent or parents, but also traumas for being perhaps present or have sensed in a direct way the shock of this violent act. Our requests were very simple. There are those who even spoke of obstructionism. No, we have simply defended a criterion that seems incontrovertible to us, namely that, if children who have lost their parents in this way are given special protection, all orphans who have been deprived of their parents as a result of violent crime must be protected. At the moment when a child loses his father and mother, whether the killer was his mother's former partner or a robber or a terrorist, we really can't feel the difference, and it's really hard to support her. The only unfortunately residual explanation to this - alas - obstinacy in maintaining the law reserved for that particular group of children, is that one wants to make a norm that goes behind the chronicle. We know that many phenomena, particularly of crime, are considered particularly urgent and pressing not always in relation to the actual frequency, but in relation to the frequency with which it is reported with great importance by the media. We know that any murder is a very serious, particularly horrible fact; it is particularly abhorrent that of a woman, moreover by the person who has or has had his affection; even if we talk a lot about this which is certainly a serious phenomenon and which must be prevented, fought and must meet the needs of children who suffer the consequences first and in a very serious way, we cannot say, however, because this phenomenon particularly arouses the attention of the media, which for various reasons give more emphasis to this than to other phenomena, than the children who find themselves in the same situation (that of having lost their parents as a result of violent crimes) do not have to do because the news that concerns them did not have the first page, but perhaps the fifth or seventh or local chronicle, then it does not matter. Let us also remember that the Constitution states that all citizens are equal before the law, so we cannot adopt the same criterion as journalists make up their information tools; of course there are news that strikes more and others less, beyond statistical data. You can do a news report or a newspaper this way, but not a law. The law must protect everyone. We fully agree, indeed this idea stems from an initiative of Forza Italia; we fully agree, we are supporters, initiators of rules that give adequate support and take appropriate measures to protect children who have found themselves deprived of their parents because of feminicide of women who are killed by their partner or former partner. However, we cannot close our eyes for this; indeed, it must be an opportunity to take care of situations that have a completely equal consequence, even with different causes. How can one make a difference between the orphan whose mother was killed by the former partner and the one whose mother was killed by a robber? We do not understand how this can be supported, and we support this very much, because we believe that children should always have the utmost attention. The problem was raised precisely by Members of Forza Italia, so let's make a rule that works and is adequate. Since the problem has been raised, we cannot allow a future of orphans who have become orphans as a result of violent crimes, but who do not fall within the strict parameters laid down by the rule we are discussing, to have recourse to the Constitutional Court, which will have to state what is absolutely obvious, namely that there can be no difference between the person who killed the mother of a person, to determine whether this orphan is worthy of attention by the law. This must not be said by the Constitutional Court, we understand it easily, just have good will. We are doing everything we can to ensure that this is done. There is room to approve the provision also in the House, of course it must be done. We must want to do this, otherwise we approve a law that is not a law, so an act of justice becomes an act of injustice against children who are in the same situations, even if not with the parameters that were decided at that time. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Compagna. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u121	Senator Fattorini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to respond with ease to Mr Malan's objections, I would like to return to the basic reason, to the ratio of this measure, stressing the fact that on the subject of violence against women and children we close the legislature with a measure like this, which I consider very significant precisely because of its nature and which honours that Istanbul Convention with which we ratified substantially five years ago the legislature, in June 2013. This Convention is very important for two reasons. The first is because it legally obliges States - and this is the first time - to integrate prevention, protection, prosecution and policies. In other words, it is not limited to that warning and a general threat of sanctions that often accompany these complaints, but it is a convention that binds. The second is that, for the first time, violence against women and children (for this reason it is not a general crime) is finally part of the transgression of human rights, as it violates the principle of equality. It is a cultural and legal change. Our Parliament was among the first in Europe to ratify the Convention. I remember the emotion of having done it here in the Senate, on behalf of the Foreign Commission in that month of June, with an express vote - I remind Senator Malan - unanimously: we all voted for it. That ratification was followed by important legislative measures which I do not remember here, some of which included increases in the resources allocated to anti-violence centres and, finally, the Commission itself on feminicide. We are making a joint effort to set up a directing booth, in order to coordinate prevention and support, from the police school, to the emergency room, to the control of advertising. I said that Italy - I am interested in this international dimension that we often do not value enough - is the first country in Europe to deal with the issue with this breadth and nature. What is the ratio, what is the moral and symbolic point of this provision? The fact that the crime is much more serious when the crime happens in the heart of affective relationships: it is a complicated speech, but I go to specify it better. I am talking about those intimate relationships that are not only related to consanguinity, but to a profound idea of affective relationality that, by definition, requires and calls trust, trust, respect and protection, that is, everything that should provide reassurance: this makes this crime particularly hateful and connotes the quality of these orphans who are not accidentally orphaned. In other words, it conceptually and legally overturns - this is very important for our legal development - the logic of the crime of honor. The spirit and the reason that move us are in fact those to archive that culture of the crime of honor that we canceled late in 1981, but that re-emerges with hateful force, in some subliminal way, when it is affirmed from all sides, also from those who condemn these crimes, like the press that denounces them, that would be the passion, the jealousy and the possession of the causes of these crimes and therefore always a motivation of love. This ends objectively and indirectly in order to nourish this culture: it is not an explicit condition (of course no one would admit this position), but it is a subliminal message. It is not only a residual and punitive culture and manifests itself not only in backward contexts, but also in modern contexts, because it opens up exactly to that culture of which I said before. To conclude, I would like to mention our international contribution, which we were able to verify the effectiveness of when we took part with Mrs Puglisi and Mrs Fabrizia Giuliani from the House in the debate desired by the European Parliament on this subject. Let me just say this: we are back in dismay from Brussels because of the resistance of the Eastern countries, first of all Poland, to ratify the Convention. In fact, in their view, laws against domestic and family violence would affect the roots of Catholic principles and tradition. These are topics that are on the agenda in international fora: the misogynistic and xenophobic conservatism of those cultures feeds on these motivations. Well, we have told them that the family can only be defended if emotional relations based on freedom and dignity are strengthened. So I conclude by saying that we must also pay attention to these roots when we talk about the danger of European populism advancing and threatening Europe, using these issues and using these fears. I would like to remind everyone - and this is a speech that does not know parties or belongings - that we, all of us, also for the work we have done over the past five years, not only help Italian women and their children, these very special twice orphans, but we are - and I shall end really - at the forefront and head of the defence of European women on these issues. We are proud of this and, as women, we are very happy to conclude the legislature with this measure. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u125	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, my speech will also be very brief in view of the fact that it is important for our Parliament to complete, during this parliamentary term, a very special process of attention to the issue of human and civil rights. It must be said that with this measure we supplement and go further to strengthen the provisions of Article 8 of the Istanbul Convention and, together, we go to strengthen and make legislatively concrete and factually supported a rule, which we have seen in the recent budget law. In this sense, we are calming our fellow Senator Malan, who mentioned the need to expand the quantity of minor subjects to be protected by the State. I would remind the Senate that just one of the amendments, at the first signature of my colleague Mr Puglisi, has led to the increase of the Rotation Fund for an additional EUR 2.5 million, thus bringing it to about EUR 4.5 million for three years. This fund is available to victims, in particular minors, of mafia crimes, of extortion requests, of usury, of intentional violent crimes, and is part of it, thanks to this amendment, a further and very important category, which has seen in the last fifteen years 1,628 children or boys, lose their mother and also their father, following a feminicide or a feminicide and a further suicide. In the first case the father was lost because he was imprisoned and in the second case he was lost even physically. I am referring therefore to orphans of domestic crimes and feminicide, i.e. 1,628 children or children over the last fifteen years. I wanted to do this, because I followed the process of this very important bill, but I wanted above all to comfort two people. The first is Nancy Mensa, today's daughter of Antonella Russo, killed on 13 August 2013 in front of the three children, children and young people, including the oldest, Nancy, who since then has maintained a scholarship and decided, instead of proceeding as she imagined to do, with a degree in nursing, to study jurisprudence, because she wants, as she says, as a magistrate, as a lawyer or as a member of the Forces of the Order, to be able to defend women as her mother, that the State has not been able to defend enough. The reason why this fund was set up is an admission of responsibility, because very often it has not been possible to prevent and intervene in time and that is why we also deal with it with a further fund and with a desire to include a legislative project. I want to do it, then, for Stefania Mattioli, Claudia Ferrari's mom, killed not by a husband, but by a partner and that's why we predicted also the children of civil unions - and we would not have expected them - since the dad, Massimo Di Giovanni, committed the feminicide and then killed himself, leaving his 60-year-old grandmother, Stefania Mattioli, to take care of two girls of four and six years. For two years now, she has been caring for them as a mother, alone, giving up a fundamental part of her income, because she had to work and in doing so she had to, at least partially, stop working. So this fund, together with this bill, should finally go to soothe the serious sufferings, even of an economic type, which have, unfortunately, suffered even more harm than already psychologically, these orphans of feminicide. I would particularly like to thank those who have contributed to the drafting of this bill, which contains two aspects that represent a change of paradigm that I believe is the flagship of this legislature. In two articles of this bill, one important thing is said: that the prosecutors, in addition of course to the providential and in addition to making it impossible, finally, the succession for the father or in any case the subject who has been responsible for the feminicide, today provides greater protection for the simple fact that we have inserted as immediately applicable - therefore even before the first sentence at first instance - the fact that there is a suspension of the successor aspects in favour of the minor children that must be protected and defended by fathers who often even do private acts with notaries and lawyers to take away from their children the possibility of succession compared to the mother's pension or the property of the family. In conclusion, this measure is important because, in two specific points, it indicates an obligation in favour of children so that with an innovation from the point of view of criminal proceedings, in our penal code there is a mechanism that obliges the prosecutors to proceed quickly, communicating immediately to the INPS and the office of income, that is to say to the person responsible for the proceedings, everything that has to do with both the successor elements and the possible need to transfer the pension, so that they have to rely on the minor children. I think that we are doing something that is expected outside of this House by a relatively limited number of people, but too high, luckily, and that is the completion of a path of which we are truly proud for the attention we have been able to give to the theme of feminicide and of the orphans of feminicide. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u126	Mr President, I know perfectly well that this measure will shortly be adopted exactly as it is, because this is the objection that has been put to us in the Commission and we will most likely be told, if we were ever to be particularly accidents in the debate, that, yes, there are errors but in the meantime we are changing this law and that mistakes will be remedied later. What we have been told so many and so many times in this House, every time we have passed a law that has been forced by the times. If this bill said that protection is given, as required by the law itself, to all minors whose parents are killed by the other parent, that is to say the person with whom the minor parent himself lives so that, because of this murder, the child comes to completely lose his family environment - said the rapporteur and last said the Senator Puppato - we would not have had any objection to the adoption of this bill. The basic problem is that it says something very different and because, both here in the Chamber and outside, some intervention or some notation, I have a strong suspicion that many people do not know the text and are preparing to give their vote on the basis of journalistic suggestion or political propaganda, I will use that little time I have available to try to explain the concept well. Article 1 of this bill states that legal aid is given in derogation from the rules applicable to the child whose parent - and here I would ask you to pay some attention - is killed by the spouse even legally separated or divorced, by the partner of the civil union even if the civil union has ceased, by the cohabitant even if the cohabitation has ceased. We have tried to say, in the Commission, that there is a lack of account, namely that of the parent who is not a spouse and who is not a cohabitant, well being able to check the case of a parent who has not married the other party or has not lived with the other party, so the child whose parent is killed by the other non-marital and non-living parent could not enjoy the - correct and fair - benefits of this bill. The second objection we made in the Commission is that the reference is to the child whose parent is killed by the spouse, the partner or partner of the civil union, but in a completely detached way, by a relationship of coexistence that the killer has with the child. I'll give some examples, so we're all happier. I happen to have lived with one person from 1980 to 1990 and with another person from 1990 to 2000, that in 2005 I was married and had a son and that in 2007 my cohabitant or my cohabitant (awaited the times) of the eighties killed me. That killer never had any relationship with my son, who lives quietly with his mother; in other words, the parent of that child (i.e. I) would have been killed by a perfect stranger. [[Ironic applause from Senator Fattorini.]] Read the law, it is useless for you to join hands in a Chinese way, because that is exactly what is written in the text. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) He doesn't give a shit. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). I know, he doesn't care, but I'm gonna talk about it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Palma, speak in the microphone. You've had five minutes from the group. There's a couple of minutes left. He asked Senator Caliendo to intervene, too. We need to adjust the timing. [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]] However, this is what the draft law says, so much so that in the Commission we said that we could then write from the partner or partner of the civil union who lived together with the child. If, however, the minor has never had any form of cohabitation or contact with the parent's killer, do you explain to me the reason for this protection, since the family environment, to which someone referred, has not basically broken in its completeness? Given that time is what I have just been told, I quickly start to conclude by asking a question to all of you. Senator Puppato said before that in Article 3 and Article 4 it is provided that the prosecutor may seize the assets of the killer in order to protect the claims of the child and that the judge may liquidate a commission to protect the final compensation. All right, we agree. We have asked, since this rule costs nothing, that at least these two rules should be extended to all children whose parents or parents fail as a result of a crime. Will you explain to me the reason why the prosecutor is obliged to seize the assets in the cases referred to in Article 1 and instead may not kidnap them in case the parents died of any other crime? Does that minor, whose parents died outside of a family context, cost nothing the norm, have or do not have the right to have a minimum of protection similar to that of other minors? Are we creating, because of propaganda and flagship problems, an incredible disparity in the treatment of minors? And when this position is put forward in criminal proceedings, do you not think that someone will be able to come to the head of raising - correctly, in my opinion - an exception of constitutional illegitimacy? As for the indignity to happen to the killer, let me say that it is widely foreseen in our civil code. You write a rule that will create greater difficulties for the reasons that Senator Caliendo will shortly explain to you. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u127	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is so late that we need to speed up operations and, therefore, I ask the Presidency to be able to deliver the written text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. A speech which is certainly more articulate than the few words I feel obliged to say.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u129	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u130	PHASE (PD). In this parliamentary term, the issue of combating gender-based violence, prevention and combating violence against women and households has been addressed with determination. I would say that this is a very important cultural change and step change. The issues that have just been addressed by everyone, including colleagues, have been examined in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide, as well as all forms of gender-based violence, which has made a very significant contribution to this issue. The killing of a parent by the partner is a traumatic event, as it denies the right to childhood and adolescence and strongly affects harmonic growth towards adult life. For this reason, a whole range of safeguards is needed. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u131	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u132	Mr President, first of all I have to say that I had very little time to examine the measure, because it should have been explained by those who followed its examination procedure, namely our colleague Erika Stefani, who had to leave the work ahead of time for a delicate speech and to whom we wish all possible good. I believe on behalf of all my colleagues, that I wish you a speedy and complete recovery. [[Applause]] We have heard from Senator Palma just now and Mr Giovanardi this morning and, probably, colleagues have good reasons. The norm leaves some grey areas. It has undoubtedly focused on certain types of minors; we hope that we can reason, as some amendments would settle and complete the framework. It is clear that tabling amendments now, at second reading, at this time of the parliamentary term, may create some problems. However, it is enough to look at the mess that colleagues are combining in the House of Deputies, where they are unable to close a maneuver, which is not only budgetary but also electoral, for the whims of one, rather than the other, of one political force, rather than the other, with the consequence that we risk, at the third reading, not even ending the examination process and finding ourselves here next Sunday, Christmas Eve, with a measure that needs to be evaluated by the Commissions and Offices for which the times, probably, will extend even after Christmas. Good. At this point, we could also think of amending, making this bill more complete and definitive, so much so, if we are to meet again on 27 or 28 December, however before New Year's Eve, the House will be able to remodel and redefine this measure and we will define, instead, the budgetary maneuver. We, although imperfect, will vote for this measure and not because it has been voted by our colleagues in the House; it is the discourse of the balance plate: putting on the balance, on one side and on the other, what is positive and what is still lacking or what is negative, the balance seems to us to hang on the side of positivity. We've done some analysis and research on how many women have been killed in the last ten years. The victims are more than 1,700; it is not so much the number, but the fact that more than 70 percent of these women are victims of crimes consumed within the family and, most of the time, within the same couple. There is no doubt that this kind of crime creates an indissoluble problem related to orphans, which the measure we are examining should try to protect more. Often they are minor, they are found without a mother and, in the case of domestic murder, with a father in prison, so they are the real victims: they are called secondary victims, but they are the real victims of this type of crime. There was a need for a measure in this direction that would protect precisely these types of orphans. What is expected? You have listed it well, in a fairly articulate way: first of all legal aid, for all children of victims of uxoricide. With regard to their access to legal aid, regardless of income situations, there is perhaps something to be done about it. Legal aid must cover all the costs of the proceedings and the trial, both in criminal proceedings and in the subsequent civil courts, until the enforcement proceedings are enforced. Again, it should be said that, if the crime is committed by an ex-husband, or if the father of the victim, the minor, is an ex-husband, living, alien to the context of the family and perhaps even wealthy, this father - who at this point has nothing to do with the crime, because consumed by another husband - could also pay expenses quietly. Therefore, it has not been defined all the casework; I understand that the casework is endless, but it could be added some "except in case the child still has a living parent, able to support, for matters of redditual ability, the costs of a process. We share that the penalties have become more severe: in fact, we intervene on some articles of the penal code, such as Article 577, which concerns the murder aggravated by personal relationships: the current rule provides for the imprisonment from twenty-four to thirty years and the bill would lead to the sentence of life imprisonment. In what situations? If the offence is committed by the spouse, against the other spouse, even if legally separated, by one of the civil parties or by the person bound by a stable or affective relationship, or the cohabiting partner. From the procedural point of view, the proposal aims to give greater protection to the children of the victims of these crimes. Let us say that a right to compensation for the damage is first provided for, in this case the protection of the children is strengthened and it is stipulated that the prosecutor will have an obligation to request the preservation of the property, even if the suspect is only such and the trial is not defined, in every state and degree. The institution of the providential is modified, in the sense that the damage suffered by the victim will be cleared, even if the trial is not finished, and in the end the other fifty percent of the damage will be cleared. The proposal intervenes on another institution, that of the indignity to happen, which has been well pointed out by my colleague Palma. It should be said, however, that the husband, though guilty of uxoricide, would become the universal heir: it would be a paradox, therefore it is right to say and write - ad abundantiam, in this case - that the call to the inheritance of the suspect is suspended. This would prevent the other heirs from having to promote civil action in order to achieve this result. We also believe it is correct that these orphans are equal to others, already governed by Law No 68 of 1999, with reference to the reserve shares of recruitment, both with employers, with the public service and with private individuals, if they have more than fifty employees. The orphans who today benefit from these privileges are the children of those who have died because of work, war and service, such as the great disabled because of war. Well: the children of those who have committed the crime mentioned above will also be equalized to these other orphans, who are the only ones who have greater and stronger protection. It is right to write that the murderer is also excluded from the enjoyment of the survivor's pension: it would equally be a paradox that the husband who killed his wife can then also benefit from her rights, which is no longer there. Regions and the self-employed are entrusted with the task of promoting information and assistance services. These youngsters are guaranteed the right to study and start work, and medical and psychological care is also provided throughout the period needed for the full recovery of their psychological balance. It is correct to talk about foster care, because with the father in prison and the mother perhaps deceased, it is good to give a suitable family context to these children, so the court will have to provide for a foster care, giving priority to the continuity of affective relationships: and in fact, it is expected that, in the case of foster care, relatives will be privileged up to the third degree. It also provides for the forfeiture from the allocation of housing for public housing. It's a pleonastic rule, because it makes you smile a little bit to think that the murderer, who had a life sentence for that crime, will spend his life in prison and therefore no longer need the house. Rightly, however, now the shot has been fixed a bit, defining that this decadence will be the turn of all violations of rights in the event of domestic violence: we talk about incest, abuse of family members, infanticide, personal injury and so on. And in fact, in the end it is also expected that orphans will have the right to request the modification of their surname, in case it coincides with that of the parent who is finally sentenced. I repeat that it seems to us a good law, even if with some faults, with the possibility of being fixed. In our view, there is at last a debate on legal and criminal matters in which the victims are mentioned. In this House, in fact, we have spoken for a parliamentary term of penalties and crimes condemned with less severity only in what we have called empty prisons, because we could not manage the prison situation: we finally talk about the victims of the crime and we go in the direction we have always wanted. Let us hope that common sense prevails and that political fences are surpassed. We therefore hope that this measure will be adopted, possibly even with some improvement. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u133	Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u134	Mr President, on 18 December, in Parabiago, in the province of Milan, Simona Forelli, a thirty-three-year-old woman, was stabbed by her partner in front of her two children, seventeen and five months respectively. It is the eighty-sixth female victim of feminicide that we remember in this House at the end of a relay that lasted one and a half years, which I promoted and in which about fifty other senators and senators participated, whom I thank. Remembering these women many times we have seen that they were leaving their children, and we have been concerned about their lives and their situation after the violent killing of their mother. On this subject, he begins, meritoriously, to deal with this bill. Women who suffer violence from their partners often fear for the safety of their children, during the relationship and even after the separation, when they are no longer present to mediate for them. It is fear for the destiny of children that makes their situation even more distressing and difficult. Their fears are not unfounded. Research, including academic research, has long shown that fathers who use violence against their children's mothers tend to use abuse and other control techniques also against children. With regard to studies in the United States, on average, both forms of violence against women and children were found in 40 percent of the families studied. The probability of incest was also 6.5 times greater for the daughters of maltreating men. But there is no need for direct, physical or sexual violence on children to report damage from exposure to domestic violence. Children who are victims of so-called assisted violence can show problems, emotional and behavioral, similar to those of children who are victims of direct violence. That is why it is very important that Article 9 of the draft law which we are examining contains provisions on medical and psychological assistance for as long as is necessary for the full psychological rebalancing of orphans of feminicide. Just as it was important that the crime of domestic violence, introduced by Decree-Law No. 93 of 2013, sees as an aggravating circumstance the fact that violence is exercised in the presence or harm of a child. Assisted violence has increased in our country. The percentage of children who witnessed violence on their mother, according to the Istat survey, rose from 60.3 in 2006 to 65.2 percent in 2014. There is also an important and well-known phenomenon: the intergenerational transmission of violence. According to Istat, the son who witnessed violence between parents becomes the author of violence in turn in 22 percent of cases and becomes it in 35.9% of cases if he suffered himself, as a child, physical violence. Today we are talking about repairing the damage suffered by orphans of feminicide, but even more important is the prevention that we must put in place. We must fight for women who fear for their children to be believed and no longer be made as the child of whom Frederick Barakat was the victim, killed at the age of 8 in 2009 by his father in the social services rooms in San Donato Milanese, during a protected meeting. The mother had desperately asked for the suspension of those meetings that exposed her son to a serious danger, but she had been answered with the threat of getting her son away from her too, accused of wanting to harm the fatherly parent figure, whose defense was therefore preposed to the defense of Frederick's own life. The case is now at the attention of the European Court of Justice, in an appeal made in November last, in which the Government will have to respond to closed investigations perhaps too hastily, errors of assessment, compensation to be recognised. But even more important, with a view to prevention, is to consider measures not only for training operators, but also for regulatory review, in particular by avoiding the use of shared adoption in all cases where a parent - we know that it is generally the father - has been responsible for violence against the other parent. And this is already a programme for the next parliamentary term. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u135	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we are here to discuss measures that protect the weakest, I always have great pride and great satisfaction. The satisfaction is all the greater when we realize that the political class, often pointed to too much conflict, shows, as in the case of the House, that it is able to speak with one voice and to be able to approve unanimously a measure that civil society has been demanding and waiting for a long time. On a matter of time I will announce that I will deliver the written text of my speech, but I would like to remind you of the many positive news that many have already mentioned in this House. I am thinking first of all of the introduction of legal aid; I am thinking of the annulment of the right to a survivor's pension for the perpetrator of uxoricide; I am thinking of the freezing of the property of the person who committed the crime and the obligation in criminal proceedings for the judge to grant the children of the victim 50% of the compensation already assumed by the judgment at first instance. As I said at the beginning of my speech, it is with great satisfaction that I welcome Parliament's work for having decided to intervene, in a homogeneous and lasting way, in order to support these young victims, not only at the economic level, but also with psychological support measures, in order to tackle with greater means the path of rehabilitation and exit from the trauma that they are forced to face. We will never be able to recognize the seriousness of the consequences of these crimes, but today we put an important piece in order to build a society more just and closer to the weak and the less fortunate. As has been announced, I would ask you to attach the written text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u137	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u138	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u139	Mr President, I would like to ask the rapporteur a moment's attention. I think I'm stealing a few more minutes, but I'm doing it to reason with you on what to do. The senator asked me a few days ago, in a radio interview, how I would vote (because this is your way of thinking). I tell you now: perhaps in favor; perhaps I do not participate; perhaps I vote against. Why? In favour, because there are certainly some situations that are regulated; there are errors, so I should vote against; there are possibilities for correction, so I could abstain. When we voted on the law on violence against women, all the groups recognised three mistakes in criminal matters and we undertook to correct them: three years have passed and they have not been corrected. I don't belong to that logic. This morning we voted on the so-called Bindi law on the witnesses of justice: I did not table amendments and I supported it to the end, because that is the way to do politics. So, let's see what's wrong with this law. Have we changed anything with our amendments? Did we take away anything from the children who wanted to protect themselves? No, our amendments protected these children and others. What others? For example, the widower's son, who marries a woman who has no relationship with her son, but then kills her husband: in this case, the child has the right, under this law, to legal aid. And why, if Tizia is a stranger to him? So why should the other orphans, victims of strangers, not have the same protection? Article 1 is ridiculous and covers EUR 10,000 for legal aid. You all know that this is not the case: Senator Rizzotti reminded us this morning of the figure of 1,600 hypotheses of feminicide in ten years; in this case we are not talking about feminicide, so there are many more cases, because any one of you knows the judicial reports knows that there are also men killed by her partner, her husband and so on. This first rule, just as we had written it with the amendment, i.e. increasing the budget, covered everything. We've been told no, and you know why? Because the words "part of the civil union" and "living together" disappeared. They even wanted to draw up a special rule that became the principal (the current text) and then put, in the end, that this rule also applies to all others, that is to say to the general rule even if the rule is that the species comes after the genus and not vice versa. You want to know why this rule is against minors? I fought for 40 years for minors, so I can't stand it, but perhaps today the fact is that I will have to vote in favour of the measure. I ask the rapporteur to tell me that she wants me to turn all my amendments into agendas. I want her to tell me so that there is a commitment in the future to correct the text. I ask this because, just to give an example for those who do not know, in Article 5, when we talk about the indignity to happen, it is said that the person who killed is suspended of the succession and we all agree; but then it is established that in case of suspension of the succession a curator will be appointed, pursuant to Article 528 of the Civil Code. This is the curator of the lying inheritance. Do you understand what that means? It means that children will not have the availability of their property throughout the criminal trial. We have tabled an amendment that corrected this hypothesis and gave the possibility to appoint a curator to the legacy lying only for the part of the killer, because at present jurisprudence and doctrine do not allow to take into account a separate part of the inheritance for the purpose of curating it. The point is this: do you want to keep the other issues firm? Do what you want, but at least intervene on this to save minors. I realize that there is no time, but that there is at least one commitment to change! Rapporteur, you speak to Senator Lo Giudice who may be suggesting what to do, but you have to listen to me and answer [[Comments of Senator Cirinna]] I am asking you whether you are prepared to accept the transformation of all my amendments into agendas, simply because I am putting serious questions. Nominating the curator of the lying inheritance means stealing from the lesser assets that may be useful for his study, so that he grows up and you want to block them until there is a criminal trial. Only the killer's assets are jammed! I realize we don't have time, but then I would like an answer. I would like to know: is there a commitment, hoping that in the next parliamentary term, even if we were not there, anyone who will be present in this House will have the sensitivity to pose the problem? Firstly, it will be a matter of ensuring equal rights for all minors, whether they are children of parts of civil union, strangers or spouses whose parents are killed, who have been murdered. This is a very serious thing, so the child is taken away affections with violence; this will mark him for life, so we cannot say that of two minors one is luckier than the other. This is the first question. The second question is that of the lying inheritance: all the rest are consequences, but they have nothing to do with it. There is no opposition to the bill passed in the House, it was about improving it and making it consistent with the rules and the order to ensure equal rights. We tried to explain it in all the sauces. In fact, the rapporteur, in the course of her examination in the Commission, said that she was in agreement; then, simply because, in the form, as I said before, the two things could not be maintained, she said that we wanted to remove civil unions. But what does it matter? Who wanted to take them off? But even if the prerogatives are also outside the civil union, it is clear that it also covers that. What's the point? I will listen carefully to the rapporteur's reply: I am willing to withdraw all the amendments I have signed and to turn them into agendas, provided that there is a commitment to correct the aspects of equality with other minors and budgetary coverage, which is not there. In fact, even if - as is said - an increase in the coverage of the new budget law, which will reach us tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, it will be necessary - and you teach me - to correct Article 1, which allocates only EUR 10,000. A correction will have to be made. At this point, it will not even be possible to make the budget correction if it has not been specifically made on the bill when we examine it. Then we also make the correction on the question of indignity to happen. I personally, without listening to my group, will vote in favour of the measure when you tell me that in future you will ensure equality of all minors with the necessary corrections and that the property of minors is not kidnapped and left to the curator of the existing inheritance. If you do not want to accept the thesis of my amendment, that you study a solution, you will consider the possibility of seizing only the assets of the killer. [[Applause from Senators Rizzotti and Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u140	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u141	Mr President, I would like to thank all my colleagues who have participated passionately in this useful debate. We know that the timing is very tight on this measure, but in the course of the examination of the amendments I am prepared to consider the possibility of giving an opinion in favour of supplementary or improved agendas, compared with those already tabled, on which I shall, for the most part, give a favourable opinion. However, I am ready to accept proposals for reformulations and I am open to dialogue and also to what Mr Caliendo has called for.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u142	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u143	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u144	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u145	Mr President, at this point I have another problem: the rapporteur has realised the problem - and I appreciate that - and she has said that she agrees to give a favourable opinion on my agenda, which I formalise. I believe that even Senator Lo Moro will be able to say the same thing, because what I said is correct from the technical-legal point of view. So the rapporteur would give a favourable opinion on the agenda, but the government says no. Why? CIRINA, rapporteur. He didn't say no.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u146	The government has given up replying. You present the agendas, also because the Presidency needs to acquire them. We have to go quickly, but we have to follow a proper process.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u147	Then I withdraw all my amendments and turn them into agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u148	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u149	Mr President, I would like to explain the amendments and also to make them vote, in order to emphasise that this is a draft law that discriminates against orphans, it is punitive against a whole series of children who are without parents and it is so for an ideological reason. In fact, I reread what the text of the bill says, according to which legal aid is provided only when the murder is committed to the detriment of the same parent by the spouse, even legally separated or divorced, on the other side of the civil union, even if the civil union has ceased and here the feminicide has nothing to do with it, if you allow it to the person who is or has been linked by affective relationship and stable coexistence in the past. Of course, the affective relationship and the stable coexistence are all to be demonstrated. From this we derive, as I said, that if a molester or stalker kills a woman or kills father and mother, the orphans of that couple will not have the legal patronage, because the stalker who threatened the woman was neither husband, nor part of the civil union, nor has he had a relationship with her in the past. So those orphans remain without any assistance and this is a reproach and an offense, because the subjects of this law should have been the orphans. Even in the case of a traffic homicide, if two small children remain who lose their father and mother, they should have assistance, because they were orphaned because of a crime, which we have qualified as murder. The subject of this law, however, is not the orphans, but the ideological idea that a certain category of people, who have children, can have more rights than others. One even gets to the point, as was well explained by Senator Palma, that if a person has had a marriage relationship twenty or thirty years before and then, for a number of reasons, comes to kill one of the spouses - among other things having himself children, children who are not understood then, when he goes to prison, how those children can be protected - that child is protected, who is not orphaned of father and mother, because it is evident that one of the two parents remains. Instead, the child who loses both parents, who are killed, has no right, because, maybe twenty years earlier, there was no stable sentimental relationship. The amendment we have tabled is very simple and I read it again, because, as the friend and colleague of the League rightly said, these things will also be part of the election campaign. Of course it will be so, since the law is made as a propaganda manifesto, so much so that the title speaks of domestic crimes and it is not true, because this provision does not concern domestic crimes, and we speak of orphans, but it is not true, because it does not concern orphans, but it concerns these discriminations. We have therefore tabled a very simple amendment, which says: The minor children or economically unsufficient children who have been orphaned as a result of murder committed to the detriment of both parents or to the detriment of one of the parents by the other parent (...). That is what you have all said and we all agree: if a father kills his mother and the child is without mother, with his father in prison, it is certain that he needs all the assistance possible and imaginable. According to my amendment, those who are with their parents killed, by anyone, having therefore no father and no mother, and anyone who has the mother who has been killed by his father, can be admitted to legal aid at the expense of the State. It simply activates Article 3 of the Constitution. What do you propose instead? Sexual harassment? Is there any such thing as stalking? Does the majority say that if a molester kills, children are not entitled to legal aid? That's what you wrote! Is there such harassment? In these days I have only heard, rightly, against harassment, stalking and these things that are done to women, but if a molester kills the two parents, the child has no right to protection: since the victims and the killer were not married, had not made civil union and had not had a cohabitation in the past, that child is out of the law. So whoever wants to take on the political responsibility to vote on this law, but it is clear that if the amendment I have tabled is not accepted, a false, unconstitutional, lying law is born that does not defend orphans and I certainly will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u150	Mr President, I would like to explain the amendments. I would like to clarify one concept: the objection we make to this draft law is purely and exclusively technical. We are absolutely aware that this bill provides for the protection of children so-called victims of feminicide and that is, basically, minors whose parents are killed by the cohabitant, former cohabitant or anything else. What do we contest with the amendments? Some technical errors. We are mainly discussing a method, Mr President, because when this could be done, that is, three months ago, we were told that the text would be adopted exactly as it is, and there was time to change it. The amendments tabled to Article 1 not only did not touch the text but, from our personal point of view, improved it and avoided, if possible, some suspicions of unconstitutionality that this text, in our humble opinion, presents. In any case, Mr President, we shall then be voting in an explanation of vote. One thing, however, must be said: this text is wrong and harmful to the child with reference precisely to Article 5, on the subject of the unworthiness to happen. Senator Caliendo explained it to you. With this text, the inheritance will be blocked and substantially, because of this blockade, the assets in support of the child will be lost. That is all we wanted to say, but since on the other hand we continue to record silence, Mr President, we are at the end of the parliamentary term, we are all large and vaccinated, I maintain my amendments, and then the House will vote against them. As far as I am concerned, I shall not be taking part in any of the votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u151	Mr President, the reason why I have presented the agendas is precisely because of the considerations put forward by those who preceded me - Senator Palma and Senator Caliendo - that is, the real impossibility of improving a text whose importance and necessity we understand. This real impossibility of achieving a good job for our citizens has led me to opt for the need to present at least some agendas in which to testify to the positive will for a change, the will to be really useful for the victims, for the orphans of feminicide, and therefore to try really to solve a problem and not to propose it again. The issue of the blockage of inheritance, dealt with so brilliantly by my previous colleagues, is one of the paradigms on which our opinion of negativity on this text is based. The attempt is at least to leave a trace of a desire for change with agendas that are not of great importance (we know; we are at the end of the legislature and therefore we have even less chance of recording), but surely testify to the action of the Senators of Forza Italia in support of a measure definitely fair and important but that is dealt with in the wrong way. With these acts of direction I try to draw an idea of how they could be seen the changes that there was the time to make but that they did not want to do and that, at this moment of waiting for the budget law to return, the space of the Assembly allows fortunately to face. If we had done so in good time, we could have done a good job for the citizens of the Republic, and instead we must be satisfied, as usual, as for the last measures examined, with a very poor, modest result, as for many of the measures you have brought to this House over the past five years, which have been sketched out but not finished. The issues are addressed but solutions are not given, new situations are opened that perhaps in some cases, are even worse than those they wanted to deal with. I therefore hope, at least, that my agendas will be transposed as evidence and commitment that more and better could be done, and I therefore hope that the rapporteur and the Government will give their favourable opinion. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u152	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under consideration, bearing in mind that Senator Caliendo's agenda would replace a whole series of amendments, excluding those in Article 5, in the text which is in my hands and which I imagine the rapporteur and the groups have, because it was necessary to rewrite the amendment also with regard to terms relating to the title and cover. I imagine Senator Caliendo, being his presenter, agrees.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u153	Mr President, I am in favour of the G1,200 agenda, provided that the formula is included to consider whether it is appropriate to do so, while I am against Amendments 1.5, 1.1, 1.3 and 1.100. On the G1.1 agenda, I am in favour of the following rewording in the final arrangement: "It commits the Government to assess whether it is appropriate to carry out statistical surveys on the condition and quality of life of minor children or of non-economically self-sufficient children who have been orphaned by a parent or both parents as a result of voluntary murder." On the G1.2 agenda, I am in favour of the following rewording of the mechanism: "It commits the Government to assess the possibility of implementing statistical assessments with the aim of guiding the prevention action for the reduction of domestic crime cases". I am in favour of the G1.3 agenda. On the G1.4 agenda, I am in favour of the following rewording of the mechanism: • commit the Government to assess the possibility of monitoring (...) • •. On the agenda, Mr G1.5, I voted against. I give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G1.6 and G1.7 provided that the device is reworded, as for the others, with the formula "to assess the possibility of "to." On the agenda, Mr G1.8 (correct text), the opinion was in favour, as well as on the agenda, Mr G1.9.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u154	Mr President, the Government is in line with the views expressed by the rapporteur. With regard to agenda G1.5, I call on the proposed senators to withdraw it and converge on the agenda presented by Senator Caliendo, on which the rapporteur gave a favourable opinion, because the two agendas essentially have the same objective.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u155	It seems to me that there is a favourable approach, but insisting on the vote on the agenda in the reworded text.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u156	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u158	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I accept the proposed reformulation, but I would ask that the agenda be voted on by this House. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, we said that. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). This is not a government commitment. Since it is a technical mistake, from the point of view of political will, for the future, I believe that I have offered the opportunity to vote together on a commitment to correct in the interests of all children rather than voting against a wrong measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u161	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would ask you to be able to sign Senator Caliendo's G1,200 (text 2) agenda and also those tabled by my colleague Mr Mandelli because, as the measure is totally lacking for me, I can revise my position on the vote with their acceptance.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u162	I see Senators Serafini, Zuffada and Fucksia indicate they want to sign. I invite all colleagues to report it to the offices. We shall now proceed to the vote on the agenda for the next part-session ( Text 2). BUCCARELLA (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,200 (text 2), presented by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u165	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, as this will be the subject of a debate in the country, I repeat the point. If the measure provided that, in any situation of domestic crime where there are orphans and a feminicide, action was taken, I would agree perfectly. The subjects would be orphans, in whatever way they become orphans, as a result of a domestic crime, especially when the mother is killed. You, however, have not made orphans subject to this law, but you have established a ranking of intervention on the basis of who the killer is. If the killer is a person who has been a spouse or a member of a civil union or has had a sentimental relationship, even forty years ago, you call him a domestic crime and intervene in favour of orphans; if the killer is a stalker, a harasser, a person who does not have those qualifications, the orphan does not have any kind of assistance. You should explain to me why this happens, regardless of the fact that it is necessary to verify whether and how the killer twenty or thirty years before had a stable cohabitation or an affective relationship with the victim. But the evidence is not on the child, which would be objective (the children were orphaned); if there is a street murder in which father and mother died and two orphaned children remain, I say: assist them; If there is a stalker who kills father and mother and the children are orphaned, let's watch them. No, we don't see those, but we see the child who still has the father or mother, who is in this category and in this ranking. It is, therefore, a discriminatory law, absolutely and ideologically discriminatory. The importance - you said in the Commission - is that in any case it is a matter of spouses or civil unions or sentimental relationships; children are not the subjects, as they should have been. So you will reject my amendment, which says that all children who are orphaned because of a murder must be treated exactly the same, and you will pass your ideological ranking, so orphans are entitled to be assisted according to the qualifications of the killer: it is an aberration. And, if you allow, once you reject this amendment, I will not vote for aberrations, because then there will be, as always, rightly, a debate in the country and, when they read this rule and will happen the first cases, in which orphaned children will have no assistance, this ideological manifesto of yours, as usual, will turn against you. Keep up the good work. I, in some respects, am also happy: it is clear that the center of the right will take more and more votes. Faced with totally irrational and illogical measures, which discriminate between children, between orphans, establishing really hateful differences, that you do not want to correct (and five months ago were correct), you can do nothing but acknowledge and vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u168	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, it seems to me that we have proceeded with an important cross-cutting approach to dealing with this bill. It is a common opinion that we want to protect the child, we want to protect the children traumatized by something important, negative, happened in the family, in the home. I try to explain, perhaps in a calmer way than the emphasis that Mr Giovanardi put on. If one of the spouses suppresses the other, we must say that the child needs special protection and attention; but it is not possible to think that if a former spouse killed both parents, then the child would not have the same protection. Therefore, if he loses a parent, because of the other parent, he falls into this case, but if he loses them both because of not one of his parents, but of an ex-husband, a former partner or a former partner, in this case he is unprotected. I've read one, two, three, four, five times to understand. If we do not approve of this amendment, we commit a nonsense, an injustice, we show an incredible irrationality. The circle doesn't close. We shall vote in favour, but we hope that there will be a minimum of common sense and that this amendment can be adopted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u171	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL-UDC). Mr President, I have decided to speak because both Mr Giovanardi and Mr Divina have made reflections which re-establish a central theme also in the quality of the legislative production that we deliver to the country. Today I have read in the newspapers some reflections of resistance from the Minister of Health, in relation to the anticipated provisions of treatment (DAT), which leaves open the door to that debate that we had promoted even in the Commission, even before in this House, to correct obvious distortions, relating to objection. Senator Nitto Palma made a timely and precise intervention: we are content with the least worst, that is the possibility to approve a law exclusively because there is the trap of time and therefore essentially to approve it as long as it is, in the knowledge that we are making a gross mistake. I am even more surprised - my colleagues in the majority and, in particular, the Government and the rapporteur - to say a word of reflection and comment on what has been objectively and objectively observed as a critical point. Now I would like to ask this: it is true, in a few hours' time this parliamentary term is over; we are struggling with a budget law which, with a continuous stop and go, gives us the hysteries of a government that makes it a relay between the House and the Commission in the House for which we do not know when it will come here; in the meantime, on the basis of the countdown of the legislature, we are pushing for the adoption of measures that are already volcanic and that could be corrected, even with a word or agenda of commitment, clear, timely and precise. I do not think it is a good way to legislate and, in any case, in relation to this, I would ask Mr Giovanardi to allow my signature to be applied to this amendment, which introduces some common sense into a hasty and badly done law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u174	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to take a moment of reality in this debate which I see as one of the greatest systems, forgetting that we are talking about Article 1 of the draft law in question, which provides for the award and recognition of the so-called benefit of legal aid to the categories of minors or economically unsufficient children who want to protect themselves. I have an obligation to point this out, also in order to remind or perhaps represent to the House and to many colleagues who might not know that this benefit - that is the fact that the legal costs of assistance in criminal or civil proceedings to be carried out in order to protect these weak persons or in any case that they are in situations of great weakness - is only partially apparent. We are not opposed to the provision and we will vote in favour of the article, which is clear from the outset, but I ask you to be kind enough to inform the legal practitioners, in particular the lawyers, who are registered in the legal aid register. I can talk about it, because I have direct knowledge of it and a very recent memory: it is a torment, because the payments to the lawyers are arranged to an extent less than half of the parameters, which are also fresh water; they are paid with considerable delay, when they are, and sometimes after years (other than sixty or ninety days invoice!), in all Italian courts. And so let's all remember that this benefit that you want to give - I also tell the representative of the government, of course, who is listening to me - is only apparent and in its concrete dysfunction makes many lawyers prefer not to defend or assist the subjects that we, with all good intentions, would like to defend. Let us bear this in mind. On the amendment we are debating, there is one aspect that seems to me to touch on madness. Am I right, colleague Cappelletti? Senator Giovanardi, I understand that the benefit of legal aid, according to your amending proposal, must be granted in the case of murder committed to the detriment of both parents but, frankly, I do not understand the alternative hypothesis, which provides that the benefit is granted in case of murder committed to the detriment of one of the parents of the other parent. Evidently because of my inability to understand, I cannot comprehend that it means a murder committed to the detriment of one of the parents of the other parent. Why just one? If they were two, wouldn't the benefit be acceptable? Here we do not understand who the other parent is. But if we're talking about a man who kills his father-in-law (we're talking about his father-in-law, basically), I don't understand why you have the benefit if you kill just one of the two; at this point, I apologize for the black humor, you should take advantage of it and exterminate both in-laws so that you can enjoy this, albeit partially, hypothetical benefit. That is why my group will vote against this amendment. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u177	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking not so much and not just to say that we are going to vote against this amendment 1.5, but also to explain it. They are, in fact, introducing elements completely out of reality into this conversation of ours. One account, in fact, is the technical observations, which we do not necessarily have to define errors, but which can denounce the fact that a law can be better written and that in the future it can also be, after proper monitoring, correct and integrated. One thing, however, is to write an amendment like this, signed by Senator Giovanardi, which says something else. Amendment 1.5 is ideologically flawed, because it introduces the concept, which seems apparently and obviously peaceful, that orphans are all equal. But this law starts from the assumption, that we share, that there are particular orphans, that is children or minors who, because orphans because one of the two parents was killed on the other, victims of a feminicide (normally they are killed women and for this we talk about feminicide), need special protection. We do not invent this story here today in this House but it is also a thesis based on data. Those who have followed the Commission's work on feminicide, but also those who have some practice of these matters, know well that the orphans of feminicide are themselves victims of these stories and that very often their lives are marked by this, not only in economic terms and living conditions, but also in relation to the approach to the issues of violence and family tranquility. Therefore, the assumption of this law is that specific action must be taken to protect orphans of feminicide. This is the assumption that we share deeply. [[Applause from Senator Gatti. Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] So, there's no point in exemplifying the case of murder of both parents. Another thing is the comments of my colleagues Caliendo and Palma, who introduce elements of discussion from a technical, not a political point of view. I hope that these remarks will not lead to a vote against, that they are not ideological but that they will remain so, that is to say, they can be absorbed in an agenda. There reference is made to other shortcomings that may exist and, look, that I myself could mention others. In fact, in the Commission, as a group, we had tabled an amendment which wanted to eliminate the element of coexistence. Once, in fact, that the law defines domestic violence and this element of coexistence is not there, it would not have been appropriate to include it in a later law. This is to say that the laws are always perfectible. I very much appreciate the attitude of the rapporteur and colleagues who defend this law in relation to the fact that at the end of the parliamentary term there is no room for such reasoning and updating. I too have not tabled the amendment on coexistence in this House, although I still think that this is a mistake and that the legislator of the future will have to remedy. However, I also continue to believe that it is an appreciable step forward to define, not only in terms of principles, but also in terms of legal and legislative terms, the protection, also from the point of view of legal aid, of orphans of feminicide, which becomes a fundamental value for our State. Then that legal aid is a matter to be discussed, this is what the Buccarella says and I've lived it too and I know you're right. Another thing that is not good in this article, as I see it, is the amount: 10,000 euros for 2017 may be fine today, but for the years to come they are not good; but they establish a principle, that of legal aid, also by way of derogation from income. We are in a position to take a step forward and we cannot allow ourselves the luxury of accepting simplifications that lead away from the path, introduce elements of ideology that eventually aim at what? They seem to want to eliminate discrimination, but basically they do not recognise, culturally and therefore legally, the opportunity, and I say the need, to protect orphans of feminicide. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u178	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senators Giovanardi and D'Ambrosio Lettieri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to the first part of Amendment 1.1 (text 2), on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.1 (text 2), tabled by Senators Palma and Malan, up to the word "forced." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.3. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment No 1,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senators Palma and Caliendo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Mandelli, we have a series of agendas, which are accepted if reworded. MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I accept the rewordings, but I would ask that they be put to the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.2 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.3 tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.4 agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u179	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u180	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u181	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we will, of course, vote on this agenda, but I would point out that while I can understand the rewording of the other agendas, because they are asking for something more complex, in order to make them a little more extensive by including the expression 'considering the possibility', here there is a request to monitor the actual allocation of financial resources allocated to structures dealing with gender-based violence. Moreover, the text spoke of "predicting the possibility," which was not a particularly coercive diction. However, the possibility is considered too binding, so it is necessary to assess the possibility. In this case, it is requested to monitor the use of public resources that should ensure this benefit. We hope that all these resources have been used in the best way possible, but the government should first ask to monitor the use of these resources for that destination and, if the government does not want to do so, the Senate should ask for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u182	Senator Cirinna, do you confirm your opinion on the reformulation? CIRINA, rapporteur. Mr President, I can only confirm the favourable opinion on the G1.4 agenda if it is reworded. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.4 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.5 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u183	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u184	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u185	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I welcome the invitation of the Undersecretary: I withdraw the agenda for G1.5 and I am relying on the one already voted by Senator Caliendo.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u186	The G1.5 agenda is therefore withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.6 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the G1.7 agenda (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u187	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u189	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with the same brevity as before - and perhaps even more so - I note here too that providing data on the Extraordinary Plan against Gender Sexual Violence approved in 2015, in order to monitor the effectiveness of the measure, should be something that the Government does spontaneously; that is, it should be the Government that asks us to do so, except that it would not need to ask us to do so by fully falling into its powers. I do not see why we should be content with the fact that the Government might consider, perhaps, the possibility that perhaps one day (but perhaps not) will explain to us how the resources envisaged for purposes very similar to those of the measure under consideration are used, namely to prevent that type of violence. I note that the rapporteur said at her previous request that, in the absence of the reformulation requested, nothing was done about it, but at one time there was also a justification for content as well as form. But this was a time, now we must go fast, without explaining it. However, frankly, I cannot understand why we should not make the request to the Government or why it is not the Government itself that does it: instead of always expressing its assent to that of the rapporteur, it should say that it wants to give this data. I personally would like to know how these funds are being used. I see that they are used well (I am not looking for the scandal), but as a Member of Parliament the fact that we are being asked frankly disturbs me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u190	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u191	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u192	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I ask the rapporteur very rightly to consider the need for this correction for what it means to foresee the possibility. I don't have to teach anyone the difference between possible and probable: the possibility is that there is even one possibility that the Government will do so, so the correct wording would be to predict the possibility. If you consider the opportunity of something that has only one chance, it becomes something that doesn't make sense. Therefore, the fact that we are considering the possibility seems to me to be that there is even one possibility of doing so, of giving the data. That's all.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u193	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.7 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u196	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that the vote of the 5 Star Movement Group on the agenda G1.7 (text 2) is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u197	We take note of that. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.8 (correct text), presented by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.9 tabled by Senators Mandelli and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u198	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u199	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u200	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I am sorry to have to publicly deny Senator Lo Moro who said absolutely different things from the text of the bill, because in the article we are voting on it it is said that the subject is children who are orphans of a parent as a result of murder committed to the same parent, from the spouse, even legally separated, from the partner of the civil union or from the person who is or has been linked by an emotional relationship and stable coexistence, but it is not at all said that he is the father of the child. In fact, the subject is the killer who kills a parent, but it doesn't say anywhere that he's one parent who kills the other, because he really didn't want to link domestic murder to the fact that one is the father and the other is the mother. Therefore, it may well be that a remarried person, with children, goes to kill one of the two parents, in which case the norm takes place, even if it is not the father or the mother, while if the same thing does the harasser and kills both parents does not take the norm and there is no patronage. I repeat: the subject is not the orphans. I also address my colleague in the 5 Stars Buccarella Movement: but what are you saying? You have repeated this a million times and it is evident: this law is born, in the sensitivity of public opinion, to address the theme of family tragedies, that is, when a father kills his mother, the mother is dead, the father ends up in prison and the children remain alone. In my amendment it was written that patronage was fine when one parent kills the other, but it must also be guaranteed when children are orphaned following a murder, any kind of murder. So, my speech spread the reasoning. As I completely disagree with what Senator Lo Moro said, I note that what you said is absolutely different from what is written here, namely that the subjects are those there: not the parents, because it is enough that the parent of the child is killed. It depends on the legal status of the killer if orphans have or will not have assistance; this is absolutely unacceptable and we will therefore vote against Article 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u201	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of Rule 1 (continued the vote). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u202	Mr President, in order not to waste any more time all the other amendments are always a variation on the subject and, in other cases of the law, they tried to incorporate the concept of the protection of orphans of domestic crimes, rather than the protection of adults in these varied situations. I repeat that the break with Forza Italia was on civil unions, which was the only thing that could not disappear from this bill, and not on the protection of orphans, because it is clear that we want to protect orphans from anywhere and from any relationship they come from. Ideology prevailed. I note that these amendments will be rejected and I note that today there is a hateful discrimination between orphans and orphans.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u203	The agenda will be set out. I would remind you that Amendments 2.7 and 2.8 have been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the remaining amendment and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u204	Mr President, I am against Amendment 2.1. As for the agenda G2.1, I am in favour, provided that the following rewording of the device is accepted: it commits the Government to assess the possibility and in the end, after the words "civil union" add the words "and" of the person who has been linked to the victim by an emotional relationship and stable coexistence."
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u205	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u206	Does Senator Mandelli accept the proposed reformulation of the G2.1 agenda by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u207	Mr President, I also wanted to explain the agenda for the G2.1, but the rapporteur's opinion came first. I believe that this is an important fact, because the amendments made by Article 2 create a clear difference in treatment in terms of the punishable nature of the two cases referred to in point (a) and point (b). I therefore consider it important that we have this report, I accept the rewording proposed by the rapporteur and I would ask for the vote on the agenda so reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u208	We shall now proceed to the vote on the G2.1 agenda (text 2). BUCCARELLA (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.1 (text 2), tabled by Senators Mandelli and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As there are no other amendments on Article 2 other than the deletion 2.1 tabled by Senator Giovanardi, we shall proceed to the vote on the retention of the Rule. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the maintenance of Article 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u209	Mr President, I will speak briefly. Even in this case, it happens that, when the magistrate, found that there are underage children, economically not self-sufficient, he should arrive at a conservative seizure in order to compensate for the damages, in all the cases I have mentioned before, the prosecutor will not be able to intervene under this law, to assist orphans of the violence of a stalker, a street murderer or of those who do not have the qualifications that the bill in question provides. Even if they are desperately lonely and both parents are victims of murder, the prosecutor cannot intervene, because the case does not fall within the categories you have set. It is another incomprehensible tear to the common feeling of justice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u210	Mr President, with Amendment No 3.3 and also with the G3.1 agenda - which I would like to explain simultaneously, being contiguous - we are trying to broaden the horizon of a measure, which we certainly believe is right, but which deserves to be deepened in order to extend it to other categories and to other cases. This is the end of Amendment 3.3, the content of which is also reflected in the agenda for G3.1, of which I would at least like to welcome, precisely in order to leave a signal on a measure that we believe is right, but also on the issue of conservatism we cannot agree, as the rule is formulated. My idea is, therefore, to try to broaden the legislative provision as far as possible, considering the possibility of extending also to minors or adults, economically not self-sufficient, orphans of parents who are victims of murder, the possibility of being protected by a conservative seizure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u211	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u212	Mr President, I am against Amendments 3.1 and 3.3 and I support the inclusion of the G3.1 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u213	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u214	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.1. BUCCARELLA (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.2 has been withdrawn. [[Senator Mandelli points out that he wants to intervene]] I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would have liked to withdraw the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I note this, Senator Mandelli, but we have already voted and the amendment has been rejected. It was my mistake. The G3.1 agenda was accepted by the Government. Senator Mandelli, do you insist on voting? MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G3.1, tabled by Senators Mandelli and Rizzotti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u215	Mr President, in this case you have removed the issue of orphans from the family context and from the current situation of cohabitation between two people in the event that one of them removes the other. Having done this operation and having written that the law takes place even if the murderer had a relationship with the victim maybe 20 years earlier, it may happen that maybe this subject has remarried and has young children. If so, we will get the provision paid to a person who may have children in respect of a situation in which the child still has a parent. Therefore, having eliminated the condition that the murderer is the father or the mother - in which case we would be within a context in which the child is the child of both - and having enlarged the case, it is evident that at the moment when the providenional is done to the detriment of this lord who has children, the problem of the children of this gentleman who is in prison and maybe is also widower. There is therefore the problem of caring for his children and there is a further buzz-up for having dropped the fundamental principle of protecting the orphans of two parents rather than running after this ideological case-book that has nothing to do with orphans as subjects. So in Article 4, too, we find a very serious mistake.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u216	Amendment 4.3 has been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the remaining amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u217	Mr President, I am against Amendment 4.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u218	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u219	Let us move on to Amendment 4.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I assume Senator Giovanardi insists on his vote. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Yes, we are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented. Amendment 5.3, tabled by Senator Caliendo, which is not included in the previous agenda of the G1200 (text 2), has been transformed into a special agenda. I therefore call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendment and on the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u220	Mr President, I am against Amendment 5.1. As regards the G5300 agenda, the opinion is in favour of the adoption of the formula "invites the Government to assess the appropriateness of (...) "."
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u221	Instead of committing itself, as it is currently written, do you call on the Commission to assess? CIRINA, rapporteur. Yes, the formula of ritual.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u222	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u223	Senator Caliendo?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u224	Mr President, I will return to your decision. I am interested that we all vote, so that there is the will to make that correction, otherwise the goods of the children will be blocked and they will not be able to be helped in the studies and their growth by those goods. There may be a call for evaluation or other wording, but as long as there is a commitment in the next parliamentary term to make this correction.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u225	In the text it is written "engaged." Does the rapporteur insist on conditioning her opinion in favour of rewording with the word 'invite'? CIRINA, rapporteur. Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Are you insisting on the vote, Senator Caliendo? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am. More than the government's commitment, I am interested in the commitment of political forces to correct. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I understand, but this is a moral fact. Do you insist on the vote? CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Yes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u228	FALANGA (ALA). Mr President, I would like to make a point in order to remain in the proceedings of the Senate, which should reassure Senator Caliendo as well. The emphasis that the text should provide for the suspension of the succession process is correct because, as Senator Caliendo says, others can be harmed. I believe, however, that under Article 512 of the Civil Code, Senator Caliendo, it is possible for the judicial authority to have access to the institution of the separation of the assets of the succession. As a case-law, therefore, I would like to leave to the proceedings of this debate our will that the succession be suspended in relation to the position of the killer, but not already of the other parties concerned with the succession. And well can the judicial authority proceed to the separation of the assets and suspend the succession relative to the share due to the killer. The objective is to give, from now on, a legal interpretation of the norm that can be useful to the operator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u229	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.1. BUCCARELLA (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G5,300 (text 2), presented by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u230	Mr President, Amendment 6.2 (text 2) concerns the reserve quota and the principle is always the same. In addition, following this amendment to paragraph 1 of Article 6, I also propose to replace the title of Article 6 with the following: "Right to reserve quota in favour of orphaned children." Of course, there is reference to orphaned children as a result of murder. I understand that, on the other hand, the majority believe that orphaned children of murder should not be protected, except in the cases mentioned earlier. With the vote on this amendment, it will remain the sign of this contradiction.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u231	Amendment 6.1 has been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the remaining amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u232	Mr President, the opinion is against amendment 6.2 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u233	Mr President, the opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u234	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6.2 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u235	BUCCARELLA (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 6.2 (text 2), tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 7, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented. Amendment 7.4 has been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the remaining amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u236	Mr President, the opinion is against amendment 7.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u237	Mr President, the Government's opinion is in line with the opinion of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u238	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 7.1. BUCCARELLA (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 7.1, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 8, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u239	Mr President, my amendments are specific to Article 8, which is rules on the right of access to assistance services. With Amendment 8.3, I think it is appropriate to include in Article 8 (1) (d) in addition to support measures, also measures that can facilitate orphans. It is therefore an addition, like amendment 8.4: when it comes to data acquisition, I think it is statistical data; it is not a very clear text and in this sense I wanted to improve it. Imagine that opinions will be given against this, and I would ask, apart from amendment 8.4, that at least consideration be given to the possibility of including, in addition to support measures, aid measures. I therefore call for amendment 8.3 to be transformed into an agenda, with the words 'to assess the possibility' in the operative part, and I maintain 8.4 as an amendment. As far as Amendment 8.5 is concerned, I believe that the end is clear here too. The idea is to be able to set up institutional campaigns. It is an informative act that I believe anyone in this House can only approve. However, given that I would probably receive a negative opinion here too, I would like to turn Amendment 8.5 into an agenda, so that we really can see that there is a commitment to information campaigns. I do not think it is necessary to explain the reasons and therefore I trust that my request will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u240	The remainder of the amendment is set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u241	Mr President, I welcome the requests for the amendments to be transformed into agendas, provided that the wording is included in the proposal to consider whether it is appropriate to do so. With regard to amendment 8.4, if Senator Mandelli is willing to make a single agenda, we include it in the previous one. The same applies to amendment 8.5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u242	There will then be the text of a single agenda resulting from the transformation of amendments 8.3, 8.4 and 8.5, which will commit the Government to consider whether it is appropriate to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u243	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u244	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u245	MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we can certainly combine amendments 8.3 and 8.4 on a single agenda, but Amendment 8.5 has a different dignity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u246	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u247	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u248	CIRINA, rapporteur. So let's make two different agendas, both with the words "to assess the opportunity of "to."
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u249	Therefore, for the sake of clarity, there are two agendas, on which the Government gives a favourable opinion. The first is the G8300 agenda, which comes from the texts of amendments 8.3 and 8.4, which will include the formula "to assess the appropriateness of "to." Then there will be a further agenda drawn from amendment 8.5, always with the same evaluation formula, which the Offices know, and always with the rapporteur's favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u250	Yes, Mr. President. Finally, I am against Amendment 8.6.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u251	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u252	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u254	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, we would kindly ask that the votes be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u255	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Amendment 8.1 has been withdrawn. Senator Mandelli, do you insist on voting on the G8300 agenda? MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G8300 agenda, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u256	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u257	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u258	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have to report the malfunction of the electronic device in my station.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u259	We note that Senator Carraro would clearly have liked to vote in favour of the agenda, like the whole House. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the G8500 agenda, presented by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.6 tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment to include an additional article after Article 8, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u260	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u261	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u262	Senator Mandelli, what are you going to do with this amendment? [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u263	Mr President, I find it difficult to turn this amendment into an agenda, as I have done with others. Since there is no alternative, let's vote on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u264	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 8.0.100, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 9, on which an amendment has been tabled, which has since been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. BUCCARELLA (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 10, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u265	Mr President, we are truly at the masterpiece here, because, with regard to the custody of orphan children for domestic crimes, as referred to in Article 10, our amendment is very clear: for those who have been orphaned by both parents because they have been killed or following the murder committed by one parent against the other, the competent court can give priority to the affective relations that remain with other family members. But no: how does the majority restrict this case? Only when death has been caused by the spouse (including legally separated or divorced), on the other side of the civil union (even if it has ceased), by the cohabitant or by a person linked to the parent himself (even in the past) by an emotional relationship. Now explain to me, also here, if you do not want to touch the ridicule, because the continuation of the affective relations of orphans must take place only if the parents have been killed by subjects of this type and that perhaps for twenty years had no relationship with them; if instead the parents are killed by stalker, by the stalker or by any other person or in a street murder, the judge must not give priority to custody in the context of family affections. I wonder if anyone can explain this to me. The problem is that it is inexplicable and, as usual, vote on things that are neither in heaven nor on earth, in order to carry out a provision, but also of this we will talk to the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u266	Amendment 10.2 has been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the remaining amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u267	Mr President, I am against Amendment 10.1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u268	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u269	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 10.1 (text 2). BUCCARELLA (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 10.1 (text 2), tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 11, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which are set out. Amendment 11.2 has been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the remaining amendment and agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u270	Mr President, I am against Amendment 11.4. The opinion is in favour of the G11.1 agenda if the usual rewording of the mechanism is introduced and the Government is committed to assessing the appropriateness of the proposal. The opinion was opposed to the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u271	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u272	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 11.4. BUCCARELLA (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 11.4 tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask Senator Mandelli if he accepts the proposal for redrafting the agenda G11.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u273	Yes, Mr President, and I would ask that the agenda be put to the vote. At the same time, I would like to announce the withdrawal of the agenda G11.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u274	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G11.1 (text 2). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Agenda G11.2 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 12, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u275	Mr President, parliamentary acts remain; therefore, for those who go to read how a certain law was born and what the reaction was, they are indispensable. Parliamentary work, fortunately, serves this purpose. I was absolutely in agreement with Article 12, which provides for the forfeiture of the allocation of housing, as provided for in the norm, when crimes are committed within the family or family. I don't understand what it's like for people who are tied up, currently or in the past, by marriage, civil union or sentimental relationship. In that case, in fact, we are going to clash with realities in which, perhaps, the rights of other families and other children, who have nothing to do with responsibilities outside of that family unit, are lost. So, this too seems to me an absolutely eccentric measure, always to want to repeat in all the articles this case study. I repeat that this law is not born for orphans but serves only to accredit this case law. And orphans pay for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u276	Amendment 12.1 has been withdrawn. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the remaining amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u277	Mr President, I am against Amendment 12.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u278	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u279	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 12.2. BUCCARELLA (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12.2, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 12. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 13, on which an amendment was tabled, which was subsequently withdrawn. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Rule 13. BUCCARELLA (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 13. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u280	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u281	Calm down. I would ask you to listen to him. Maybe it convinces you. We talk about convincing, not screaming.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u282	Senator Giovanardi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u283	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, this reminds me of the old carnival when you shot the bear. In this case, what we hit is a big target, when battles take place in defence of constitutional principles, Article 3 of the Constitution, the rights of children, orphans, common sense and to expose mystifications. I repeat, since the title, there is a scam. This does not concern domestic murders. It's not about orphans, except partially. It's not about feminicide. If we want to extend to everyone, as this case has been extended, the male partner of a civil union that kills another man falls within this law and, therefore, is not feminicide; or, vice versa, also a woman who kills her husband. The problem is that here we have completely left the family area, when the murder no longer takes place between the father and the mother of the child. It was also intended to reject the idea that those who commit a murder against their parents, and therefore leave orphan children, can enjoy this measure. We have come out of Article 3 of the Constitution, out of common sense and bogged down in a surreal case. That one has been married and then divorced is easy to ascertain; that one made a civil union and then came out of the union, it is easy to ascertain. Can you tell me who knows if a person 30 years ago had a stable relationship? Who determines whether the relationship is stable or not? It is not a relationship from which the child was born: the son who remains orphaned will almost always be the son of other people, and therefore it is not the result of that stable sentimental relationship. In addition - as I have shown - there is also the case that arises in a hateful case such as harassment and stalking, that is, when a person kills a woman because he cannot get what he claims from her. Well, if, unfortunately, orphan children remain since that murder - I address you, colleagues who will vote on this measure - they will have no assistance; they will have none of the benefits of this law, and that is because the killer is a molester and not an individual who thirty years before had had a supposed sentimental relationship, which is no longer there. As there is no more cohabitation; there is no more home; there is nothing more than what you are going to tell, namely that you have done this measure to protect the cases in which the husband kills his wife and children, having remained alone, without a father - he is in prison - and without a mother, they need protection. Too bad you added everything else to us, to give us a good ideological connotation, and you excluded everything else, that is, the real orphans, that is, those who become it for a murder. Those were not taken into account at all. In any case, we, as a group, have done our battle. We have tabled our amendments and they have been rejected. Of course, we will bring these contradictions to all fora: legal ones, those of lawyers, those of legal practitioners, associations of family members and those of St. John's Square, that is to say, to all those who care about the family. And we will do so with regret, because it would have sufficed to adopt a few small measures three months ago in the Commission. Starting to conclude, I'm also a little surprised. It may be said that Senator Giovanardi is of long course, but he is not a magistrate. In the Commission, however, we have two judges, one of whom has 40 years of experience in this area, while the other has been at the forefront of organised crime and has been Minister of Justice. I can assure you that I am impressed by the fact that, when in the Commission two people of refined legal quality give - or try to give - their technical contribution, they always clash with a wall of no. Honestly, when I was Minister for Relations with Parliament and Vice President of the House, and I was a majority, if constructive contributions from the opposition came that improved the measures, I had nothing to do but thank the opposition for their contribution to the administrative quality. Senator Cirinna and I have conflicts, but you certainly do not have much ductility when dealing with such issues, because it builds a wall but not towards Giovanardi, but towards technical improvements advanced by illustrious magistrates. Moreover, improvements that could be made end up in agendas that, like a cigar and a knight's cross, are not denied to anyone. Finally, with a few agendas, we turn to the Government to consider, in the future, the possibility of correcting macroscopic errors in the measure under consideration. From my point of view, the agenda does not solve anything at all; on the contrary, in some respects it also tastes like a mockery when the improvement and correction of technical errors are not accepted. For all these reasons, our vote will be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u284	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u285	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u286	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, we are partly satisfied with the fact that a measure like the one we are debating probably served, but it is a pity that we did not fully achieve the objective. If the aim was to protect all orphans of domestic crimes, it was necessary to be able to manage the session in another way and not almost foreclosure. Agendas have been approved according to the sympathies. I am sorry for Mr Giovanardi, who probably does not have much sympathy. For our part, having no such judgment, we said that they were intelligent proposals that were going to fill a great gap. In fact, if a family remains a spouse, the children will have some protection; but if there is no one left in that family, because of a real massacre, there is no protection. I'm sorry. The rapporteur would have done well to make a small extra effort to achieve at least what was good in this House. Let us go back to saying that, all in all, the victims of crime are finally put at the centre of our debate, while for years we have only talked here about decriminalization, discounts of punishment, empty prisons, alternative penalties. Basically we did everything, protected thugs and anyway who committed the crimes and who was already in prison we released him. At last, however, by means of preaching, we are going in the direction we always wish to think sometimes about victims and not only about those who commit crimes. There was enough transversality in assessing situations. We hoped that as much common sense as possible would apply, and something good came out. We wanted to avoid what has already happened. We would have bogged down the situation with our bill that spoke of the inapplicability of the abbreviated ritual for certain crimes, including feminicide. Too bad you didn't want to deal with him in this legislature. We would have already covered some of the issues that we have also discussed at this juncture. In fact, giving the abbreviated rite, on those who are guilty of crimes, for example of murder or uxoricide, could arrive a sentence, deriving from the discounts of punishment, to twelve, thirteen or fourteen years. If we add to it the penalty discounts for good conduct - those that are granted during the execution of the sentence - these people would basically do very little. It must therefore be said that, for feminicide and domestic crimes, the most serious sentence, namely life imprisonment, is the starting point. However, we must remember that we had already submitted these proposals to you and you, not approving the proposal on the inapplicability of the abbreviated rites for these serious crimes, have practically let it pass. The Group of the North League is in favour of this measure, with some regret, because it could be improved with a greater willingness to accept few, but significant, corrections. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u287	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u288	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u289	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope this is not the last measure we are voting on in this parliamentary term, because you know that there are still other measures that we need to discuss. It is certain, however, that we will come to a positive conclusion, given the last measures we have voted on, by a large majority. I would just like to start with the title of this measure, saying how important it is for a state law, including parliamentary initiative, to deal with orphans of domestic crimes. It is important, and this House has already stated its importance. I would remind everyone that, when we set up the Commission on Femicide, which I have dealt so much with at the time of the establishment and preparation of the text of the founding document, we had expressly foreseen that the protection of minors should - as it is certainly doing - be taken care of; the victims who are so dear to us and in particular to minors. When there is a domestic crime, the victims end up being more than one: not only the one who directly loses his life, but also the children who remain without mother, when it comes to feminicide, which is the most frequent case. So, it's an important job. From the point of view of legislative technique, I believe that much has been done in this parliamentary term to improve it, but we are not yet there. One thing the legislator must learn and assume as a habit is to define concepts and then maintain them in their definition. Someone first said that the first acts we voted on were the ratification of the Istanbul Convention and then Law No 119 of 2013, on which so much work has been done at the time by my colleague Guerra, who was then Deputy Minister, and we now conclude on the legislative level with the draft law under consideration concerning the issue of women. Well, the concept of crime and domestic violence was well defined. I'm just calling him back to say we don't have to go back to concepts all the time. Even with that founding document we wanted to define the feminicide, even at the stimulus of someone from the opposition, because on such innovative topics we must have the courage to give definitions and follow them. The draft law under consideration apparently follows a unique cultural path, but it has been contested that it deals with orphans. I would like to say that I do not agree with this approach. If anything, there are rules in the bill that - to be seen - have a direct recipient: we speak, for example, of Article 2, amending Article 577 of the penal code, which provides for life imprisonment for domestic murder. In this case it is undeniable that there is a recipient, who is evidently the murderer. This also applies to other articles, which deal with the indignity to succeed or the survivor's pension. However, as far as these articles introducing common sense rules are concerned, how long had the scandal been screaming because the husband or wife who killed the spouse even inherited and, above all, had a survivor's pension? And this is finally interrupted by the legislation under consideration. But to see, the true recipients of the legislation are not only the direct ones, declared by the law, because it is a situation that reverberates on the serenity of the children. I speak with cognition of cause, for having experienced certain situations. Children, when they are victims of certain stories, also need justice that restores dignity to the missing person. This is done not only with exemplary penalties, already provided for in Article 577 of the Criminal Code, in some cases, and which extend here, but above all with institutions such as the indignity to succeed and the survivor's pension. These rules have been reflected, which we have taken as a commitment and on which I do not dwell, but from the point of view of the approach they are absolutely acceptable. I want to spend one word on Article 577 of the penal code, that is, on life imprisonment, to say that tomorrow's title cannot be the life sentence for feminicide. We are not establishing that, for this, type of crime and only for it, from tomorrow there will be life imprisonment. We are intervening on a rule that already provides for an assault and, therefore, that the sentence is life imprisonment for the ascendant and the descendant, and to this provision are added the spouse and all subjects assimilated to the spouse. This must be clear, because there has also been a debate in the women's world, which is quite serious, about what this specific situation is. By bringing the rule back to the correct hive, i.e. in the special charge already provided for in the penal code, it is understood that there is an aggravating need when the murder or feminicide matures in a context of parental ties and affective relationships that aggravate the situation. On the other hand, as regards the other rules, which are many and I do not intend to fully explain them, having already been illustrated in so many interventions, the direct target groups are precisely the children. I am referring, for example, to legal aid, on which I have already intervened. It seems that we intervene with an economic standard, but that is not the case: providing legal assistance is not an economic fact, but a fact of possibility and those who know these phenomena know very well that, very often, it is precisely the lack of economic freedom that prevents so many women, so many people from leaving the family beehive and making a new life, perhaps because they prefer to try to maintain a coexistence that allows a meal for their children. Then, in this situation, we intervene by ensuring legal assistance and not according to the traditional fees that provide for discretion and lack of income, but also by way of derogation. Other rules intervene in the protection of minors: we talk about the preservation of the providenional, which is an institution that provides - and not only "consent," because the prosecutor, in the presence of certain conditions, must ask for the seizure and, therefore, there is an obligation and an automatic prediction following this request - to attack the patrimony of the murderer from the beginning. Therefore we must not reach judgment, but when we proceed to one of these crimes we intervene with the conservatism and, as a logical consequence, also with the providenional. The most important part, on which many Members have spoken and on which we have insisted a great deal all these years, is that of protection. When it comes to protection, we are not always talking about criminal protection or just economic protection, but we are talking about assistance, we are talking about services. Those who have listened to the things that have been told, for example, by Dr Sabatini a few days ago at the hearing, have been able to deal with statistical data that give us a poverty of conditions of minors victims of feminicides to which some solution must be given. Those who are victims within a family of a crime - and not only of a very serious one, but also of minor crimes - live in a living condition from which it is difficult to get out without any support. And support means services, it means medical-psychological assistance: all things that are sometimes organized as a leopard in our strange nation where in some regions there is more sensitivity than in others. In this case, however, they are provided and regulated as services to appreciate on the territory in a free way. Of course, when we say free of charge, both for legal aid and for medical and psychological assistance, we have to deal with the sums that have been made available, which are only symbolic. We have not tabled any amendments - I said this before, speaking of legal aid - because we realize that we must adopt today a draft law which is not a flag law, since it introduces fundamental principles for us. We are aware, however, that we cannot make any changes. The other aspect is that of custody. The nearest relatives of the missing person, that is, of the victim, are sometimes found with minors to be maintained who are entrusted not in a formal and substantial way, with a support, but with an additional problem. Those children, of course, do not have the economic and psychological support that the law has to guarantee. The change of name, then, and that is the rule contained in Article 13, is envisaged as a possibility - the rapporteur pointed out that it is only a possibility - and it is good that it is so. It is not said, in fact, that a person wants to leave a family in which maybe it is only the father or mother - normally, alas, the father - the element that degenerates compared to a family context that, in other ways, is absolutely normal and acceptable. There are also other rules such as the Rotation Bottom. Overall, the structure of the bill is certainly perfectible, but it guarantees an assumption of responsibility of the State in relation to orphans of domestic crimes. In conclusion, I would like to say that we have voted in favour of agendas which had a favourable opinion of the rapporteur and of the representative of the Government, because it seems right that there should be monitoring of this whole situation and that, if there are gaps, they should be filled, not so much errors but shortcomings. The reference to the biological will, on the other hand, seems absolutely improper to me. The Ministers of the Republic swear on the Constitution and are obliged to observe and respect - respect - the results of the votes of Parliament. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP-LEU and Misto-SI-SEL-LEU]] There are no willing ministers, on the eve of the elections, who are campaigning. Minister Lorenzin misguided the approach, even cultural. In a few days this government will be gone, but we will be there, instead, to testify that we wanted other things and we do not want that also on the biological will arise situations like those that were born on abortion. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP-LEU and Misto-SI-SEL-LEU]] The Minister, therefore, must know that there is a citizenship and there are political forces watching over all this. Overall, I just want to add that we have been working on this issue since the beginning of the legislature in a cross-cutting way and we have been in perfect harmony with our colleagues in the Italian Left. That is why I am proud to vote in favour on behalf of not only the MDP Group but also the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Article 1, but also of all senators who adhere to Free and Equal. We are proud to say yes together to this measure on which we have worked and which is based on principles for which we have spent so many times in this legislature, in so many roles, which will see us, as citizens and as politicians, vigilant even at the next and future stages. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP-LEU and Misto-SI-SEL-LEU and Senator Puglisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u290	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u291	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u292	FALANGA (ALA). Mr President, I have to say that Senator Giovanardi, distracted on the phone, is a Member of Parliament and a man who is fundamentally honest intellectually and, therefore, an answer to his remarks I try to give you, although I realize that convincing him is a rather difficult undertaking. But I've never been scared of the arduous feats. The first point that I would like Senator Giovanardi to consider is that there is a substantial difference - as Senator Lo Moro also said in her intervention in general discussion - between the condition of the child who remains orphaned by the result of a murder consumed by the other spouse or in any case by a subject with whom the mother had a relationship and the condition of the child who remains orphaned by the effect of another cause, such as the street murder or the robbery. There is a substantial difference because in the second case, namely that of street murder or robbery, there is the element of fatality that intervenes and determines the mourning event. In the first case, instead, the minor finds himself living a completely different psychological condition, because he has an affective bond with the killer and, at the moment in which the mother is killed, think in his mind as a sentimental earthquake unleashes; that affective bond with the other parent, the father and that is the killer, turns into a feeling of hatred, resentment and violence. The psychological condition is completely different and the draft law under consideration has as its target the category of minors that has suffered and suffers a severe trauma. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] And what Senator Giovanardi says, when he refers to the case in which the minor has no relationship with the killer, being a subject who had a previous relationship with the mother and which he does not know, is a different psychological condition. The killer is a person with whom his mother had an affair. I realize - as I said just now - that it is difficult to convince Senator Giovanardi of this. I tried and tried, but I think with very little results. With regard to all the other subjects of the seizure, I would like to point out to my colleagues that they have also raised such issues that, at the time when there is the establishment of a civil party in the criminal process, there is a graft of the civil procedure regulated by the rules of the Code of Civil Procedure in the context of the criminal process. It is not excluded the possibility from our code, for the civil part, to ask for the preservation of the assets of the subject who is being tried. What did you do? The prosecutor has been given the same power that already belongs to the offended party, which, at the time when it is constituted in the criminal proceedings, can well ask for the conservatism and, there is the premise, is the criminal court that, in compliance with the rules of the civil trial, grants the precautionary measure. It has been said that even the prosecutor can do so, but the prosecutor can already do so independently, regardless of the regulatory forecast that we are about to approve today. As far as the suspension of succession is concerned, I repeat what I have just said. Even in that case it is possible to separate the assets of the succession in order to allow, then, possibly, the freezing of that portion of succession due to the killer who, in case of obviously definitive condemnation - it will obviously be out of unworthyness to happen - is donated to the other subjects of the succession. Also in this case, the observations are frustrated, because the curator and the judge of the succession can well proceed to the separation, pursuant to Article 512 of the Civil Code. At this point, it remains a text which in some way wants to express Parliament's sensitivity to children living in a dramatic psychological condition. And, look, there's a big difference. It has been scientifically established - for example - that the adopted minor is looking for his biological parents because he wants to understand and overcome that guilt resulting from believing that he was probably abandoned even for some of his fault. Even in the case of feminicide, this psychological condition can occur in the minor. The minor - it has been scientifically ascertained - feels the guilt, feeling in some way responsible, within the family, for what happened, almost as if in the murder he also had responsibilities and faults. Think of the difference: feelings of guilt in this direction and bond with the killer parent who killed, or in any case with the subject with which the mother, who is no longer there, had an emotional connection. I think that with regard to this child there are no rules of the Constitution that are recalled (Article 3 and so on), because the two subjective positions are completely different. I challenge anyone to advance hypotheses of constitutional illegitimacy. I challenge anyone to believe that the Constitutional Court will not fail to make the correct distinction between the two positions and to believe that the rule legitimately adheres to the constitutional dictation. For these reasons, we, appreciating the work of the rapporteur, who has adhered with agendas to the timely and perfect remarks of Senator Caliendo - the remarks of Senators Caliendo and Palma were not entirely in vain - and the work of all of us in the Justice Commission, with satisfaction, we can dismiss in this House a text that honours politics. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u293	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u294	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u295	ANITORI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, Senators, Senators, the Group of the European People's Alternative will vote in favour of this draft law, which lays down provisions for orphans of domestic crimes. First of all, I would like to make an important reflection, which everyone has already done. They are orphans who are victims twice: the first, because they suddenly find themselves without reference points, both their mother and their father; the second, because they have to find for themselves the way to face a new, unimaginable and sudden situation and move on with their lives, regardless of age and economic possibility. The aim of the measure we are preparing to dismiss today is, therefore, to strengthen and anticipate, above all, the protections, compared to the ultimate condemnation of the deed, for children who are orphaned by one or both parents, following a domestic crime, committed by the spouse, even if legally separated or divorced, or by a cohabitant against the other. In the last ten years, the orphans of domestic crimes have been about 1,600. In 30 percent of the cases, in addition to the mother, orphans also lost their father, either because they committed suicide or because they were imprisoned, and were entrusted to maternal grandparents, uncles, or often given up for adoption. Over the past thirty years, it is believed that at least 1,500 orphans have been orphans of feminicide, of domestic crimes, who have not found - as it were - attention in parental families, as they are in economic difficulties. Domestic violence, domestic murders and feminicides are a widespread phenomenon, now structural, that the State has the duty to counter, on cultural and judicial plans. At the same time, the institutions must bear the consequences of these crimes on the children of the victims, updating their legal framework and defining interventions capable of giving timely and rapid answers, so that these children are not orphaned three times, for the loss of both parents and for the indifference of the State. (18.38) (Follows ANITORI). Interventions tend to support the victims, without waiting for the conclusion of the criminal trial. As has been pointed out several times, legal aid is introduced to victims, both in criminal and civil matters, regardless of their income capacity. In addition, there was an intervention to equate the fact that personal relations were involved in the murder, including spouses. And we think this is a qualifying element, criticized by some. We believe that the full responsibility of the offenders must be affirmed. We do not understand why, if there is an attack on the quality of relations today for the ascending and descending, that is, on the part of parents or children, this should not be recognized also with respect to the spouse, as if - let's say in a cultural heritage - the killing of the spouse was considered a serious murder, and therefore less serious than the killing of a parent or a child, as if there were a co-responsibility of the victim of the murder. The law introduces the obligation of preservation of the property of the offender in the presence of children underage or adult not economically self-sufficient; the assignment of a commission without waiting for the end of the criminal trial in favour of orphans of domestic crime, thus anticipating an economic support for orphans, always waiting for the conclusion of the criminal trial; the suspension of the hereditary succession in slope of criminal judgment; the automatic declaration of unworthiness to the succession in case of definitive condemnation. It also provided for the suspension of unworthiness to happen to children who kill their parents for access to the inheritance; the suspension of the right to a survivor's pension; the ownership of the shares of the parent who is guilty of a crime brought to trial in favour of the children of the victims, without waiting for the trial to be concluded. New rules have been introduced to support the victims and families who take care of them, and in particular: free medical-psychological assistance; free access to pharmaceutical health costs; the possibility of ensuring the continuity of emotional relationship and therefore, in the case of foster care or adoptions, of giving priority to foster and adoption towards parental families or those families with which there is, in any case, a strong relationship by the children, who have already suffered serious damage and have, in most cases, witnessed the violence and killing of their parents. Other significant measures concern the forfeiture of the perpetrator of domestic crimes from the allocation of public housing and the possibility of access to a facilitated procedure for the change of surname. This rule, which may seem trivial, but which in fact in many cases allows orphans of feminicide to close a truly painful page - if it really can be said that it can be closed - and to restore even a life with new dignity, with a new identity also through the change of the surname. The purpose of this draft law is therefore to anticipate, in favour of the children of the victim of murder, a series of safeguards that our legal system currently recognizes only as a result of criminal condemnation definitively and only following the initiation of further civil proceedings, with serious penalty for the orphans of the victim, who are fully recognized their rights only decades after the tragic event that radically changed their lives both at the emotional level and at the level of life prospects, also economic. It is also intended to underline briefly that, however, great progress has been made in this legislature to put the victims at the centre of our legal system: the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, which was the first measure approved in 2013, Legislative Decree No 212 of 2015, which implemented the European Directive No 29 of 2012 on the rights, assistance and protection of victims of crime, through minimum standards, which ensure adequate levels of protection and assistance both in the stages of trial and participation in criminal proceedings, both outside and independently of it. The same Directive also provides, in Articles 8 and 9, for the right of access to assistance services for victims, as well as for the assistance provided by information, guidance and advice services and access to services for victims of violent intentional crimes. Other measures are always linked to the implementation of European directives, including compensation for victims of violent intentional crimes, to which we are also committed today to supporting the fund and the costs of this bill. We believe that this measure is of particular importance. It is an update of the regulatory framework that allows for immediate protection of the child which must be protected in all the many aspects highlighted in my short speech. Therefore, I can only reiterate the full support and support of the Group of the People's Alternative. [[Applause from the AP-CpE Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u296	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u297	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u298	URAS (Mixed-Mist-CP-S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say that I am very pleased that this measure comes at the end of this parliamentary term to be approved with great participation by the Senate. This law is important from the legal point of view but, above all, from the ethical point of view. It is a duty that today the State decides to assume, committing itself, even with many agendas, to qualify, monitor and improve the operation of a law necessary to protect children victims of the most intolerable violence against their mother and in the context of family relations. It has been a long and painful battle for this bill on domestic crimes to be incardinated in this House. It came from unanimous approval in the House. He had assigned the deliberating seat to the Commission and had been removed from it. Now, at last, in the last corner of the legislature we are able to approve this law, a measure that is civilization and defense of the weakest. A journey started, let me remind him, from Sardinia, made of many stages: from the preparation of the text of the proposer to the House, colleague and friend Roberto Cappelli, to whom has worked from the beginning lawyer Anna Maria Busia; a text diffused and defended in our territory by the lawyer Margherita Zurru and Loredana Violi, who have so much engaged with the anti-violence centers in Sardinia and Italy, until arriving at the presentation in the Senate of a similar proposal to my signature and the debate in the Senate on the book "Carezze di barrio" by Maria Francesca Chiappe, our journalist engaged in the most widespread daily newspaper in Sardinia. The book tells the sad story of Dina Dore, a victim of feminicide, who leaves a daughter, then a baby, welcomed by her sister Graziella. Again, I would like to thank all the senators, from my group leader, Loredana De Petris, for their unceasing work to the colleagues of the Commission on the subject, the Committees on Justice and the Budget, the rapporteur, Mrs Cirinna, and all the senators who have done joint work in this House, and for their discussions and for their approval. I would like to thank them all. I would like to thank the Government, President Grasso, who supported the need to complete the legislative process today; the President of the Republic, to whom I would like to express my sincere thanks, because he has always been able to show great sensitivity on the subject, showing it concretely to the relatives of the victims, some of whom I would like to cite as an example: Graziella Dore, sister of Dina, Mariangela Sedda, sister of Maria Pina, and Agostino Mele, brother of Annamaria. Today we write a beautiful parliamentary page, one of the many beautiful parliamentary pages that have been written in this legislature in terms of rights and protection. This was possible because in this legislature, at this time, it was finally decided to go with great determination to fight one of the most intolerable crimes, that of feminicide, because this bill - it is true - has a title: it is a measure on domestic crimes, but it is a measure against feminicide, against that culture of violence of man towards woman, which also passes over his children, which also passes on the rights of children. I thank everyone for this result, a beautiful gift that I believe the Senate wanted to address to the Italian society on Christmas Eve. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL-LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u299	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u300	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u301	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, this proposal for a law aims, on the one hand, to introduce measures to protect directly the orphans of the murdered parent at the hands of his partner or ex and, on the other hand, to exclude the victim from any inheritance or benefit which may result from the fatal event that he caused: objectives which are widely shared by us. In particular, we welcome the fact that the protection was not limited to the orphans of the victim spouse of the other spouse, but was also extended to the orphans of the parent victim of the unite civilly or of the cohabitant in fact, which was not present in the original text and which, even by means of amendments of the 5 Star Movement, was able to be inserted during the work in the House. Of particular interest is the rule that provides for the suspension of the inheritance of the suspect for the murder of the partner and the indignity to happen in the event of conviction, even in the case of a plea of punishment; unworthiness to date recognized only in the civil forum on the initiative of another heir. It is also shared by the rule introducing the suspension of the survivor's pension of the suspect for uxoricide, starting from the request for referral back to trial, and the recognition of it to minor or adult orphans who are not economically self-sufficient. Unfortunately - we have to say - the legislative intervention only includes a form of ex post protection, to murder already committed, of course. This leaves us in some way not completely satisfied, because the legislator should intervene in advance, with an education aimed at curbing such phenomena and protecting more all those women who in vain denounce episodes of domestic violence put in place by the same people, at the hands of which they will then be killed. I say this because even if the measure is transversal - i.e. it makes no difference whether the victim of domestic crimes is a man or a woman - we cannot fail to point out that in most cases the victim of his partner is precisely the woman. The Government at the beginning of this legislature, in August 2013, issued a decree-law to combat gender violence with the aim of preventing feminicide and protecting victims. As expected, that measure did not give the desired results. The data of the Ministry of the Interior are impressive: in the last five years there are 774 cases of murder of women, an average of about 150 per year. It means that in Italy, every two days or so, a woman is killed by her partner. The violence of gender, unfortunately, also causes victims among those who remain: a drama in the drama. In 2014, 65% of the children of couples in whom violence took place would have witnessed the act and it has been estimated that, since 2000 to date, the orphans of feminicide are 1,628, 417 of which only during the last three years. Turning to the measure in question, we believe that, although it can be improved on certain points, it is generally acceptable and the text which has been approved unanimously by the other branch of Parliament seems to us to be good. Of course, we would have wanted to do more to protect the victims of violence. We would have liked, first of all, to put a patch in the PD disaster when approving the remedial conduct rule in the reform of the criminal trial. I am referring to the rule that criminal offences liable to be prosecuted subject to remission can be extinguished through a refreshment offered by the defendant; refreshment whose appropriateness is assessed by the magistrate and to which the victim has no opportunity to oppose. This rule also included the offence of stalking and other crimes against the person. The magistrate may consider extinguishing the crime when the deed takes action to compensate the victim, without the victim being able to do anything to get justice done. However, we shared the opportunity not to present any amending proposals that would go to repair the damage caused by the majority, so as not to risk that this measure, forced to return to the House at the end of the legislature, would end up in a dead track. This is because we believe that the adoption of a measure to protect the children of the victim of murder at the hands of the partner is, at this moment, a necessary act of civilization from which we cannot escape. However, we note the fact that the Government and the majority have recognized the regulatory vulnus to which I made reference with the entry into force of the norm on repairing conducts and their will to remedy it, including a special amendment in the tax decree that has recently expressly excluded the applicability of article 162 -ter of the penal code to the crime of persecutory acts. Fortunately, then, it was in time to remedy that vulnus to which I referred. In view of all these considerations, I declare the 5 Star Movement Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u302	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u303	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u304	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, from the outset, when we saw this draft law of the House of Deputies, the President of my Group, Senator Paolo Romani, had immediately grasped a problem of equal treatment and asked why orphans who are children of people killed by third parties did not have the same rights. I did not know what the reason for this unequal treatment was. Of course, if that work that we have done today, at least as a recommendation for the future, had succeeded in doing so in the Commission, perhaps we could have put in place a perfect law, without any drooling, as we did for the witnesses of justice. I hope that, after adopting the new Senate Rules of Procedure, there will be an indication of the Commission's behaviour on how to work and how to reach the conclusion of a measure. In fact, I have heard several times in these days - you have heard it too - that in the last Senate examination of the draft budget law, Senator Puglisi had guaranteed a serious coverage of the law through an amendment voted by this House. I am talking about the coverage that I mentioned in the amendments, which were transformed into agendas, which we voted in the same terms, because there were some things that shouted revenge. Senator Puglisi, I think you may have read your 16:38 e-mail today. While I was speaking, the Fund for the compensation of orphans of feminicide and domestic crimes was removed: an amendment by the rapporteur Francesco Boccia, approved in the Budget Committee to the House, has been sent back this morning - you have all read it - for the review of certain provisions. The Fund, established with the approval in Senate of the maneuver, has been eliminated. The reason behind the Boccia amendment is that the Fund has been removed because it is already contained in a measure approved by the Senate. The problem is that the ridiculous coverage provided for by the House is now being attributed to us as being our sufficient cover and therefore his amendment was useless and the amendment could be rejected. This is a pretty crazy way of working. We should all be aware that things are or are done with a minimum of calm, care and precision, otherwise we run this risk, because that amendment was not a formal but substantial consensus, and it was necessary to finance that fund. We are voting on a law - and we will vote on it - with the awareness of the mistakes I have referred to, but in particular, with regard to the budget, the coverage of legal aid referred to in Article 1 is really ridiculous, because we are talking about 10,000 euros. Do you realize that? We have said that the average in the last ten years of the victims of feminicide is over 120 cases per year, so EUR 10,000 is of no use. In addition, the problems highlighted by Senator Buccarella in terms of late payment. That is the commitment we should make. Beware that it is always a battle. I remember well in the last parliamentary term the battle against violence against women. You realize that it took almost three months to pass, in the last parliamentary term, an idea that we had during the Berlusconi government: we remove legal aid to Mafia defendants and that money we give to women - as for this bill, without paying attention to income - victims of sexual violence. That was the logic. The logic is always the same: there are certain facts that deserve the attention and the support of the State and the support is not in words, because in words everyone can do it, but in fact, when the rules are approved, the working methods are established and the economic coverage is guaranteed, thanks to which that activity can be carried out with knowledge of the cause and in the interest of the subjects who want to protect themselves. We want to protect minors and with this rule we do so in part, but it needs some corrections and I hope that the next legislature will ensure that they can all be protected against crimes such as voluntary murder, which certainly, by anyone committed, causes serious problems in the growth and life of the minor, or even of the teenager or of the adult not economically independent, because it means, for those who still believe in the family, not only that of blood, but the family of affections, which is the one that counts, taking away a piece of himself, that is the parent to whom it refers. But in fact, many times, on the one hand we say things and on the other we operate differently. Nor do we linger on the formulas such as "right" or "value" the opportunity of "right"; allow me to say that the amendment signed by Senator Mandelli was correct, in which the expression was used: "predict the possibility" because between this formula and that of "value the opportunity" there is an abyss. This last statement, in fact, presupposes a discretion and possibility of choice between several facts, while using the expression "foreseeing the possibility" refers to a single possibility. In that case the Government must give - responsibly and politically, having political responsibility - the motivation of why that organization is not provided in communication and knowledge, to orphans of the possibilities they have. I conclude by saying that we will vote together on this draft law, but with the commitment to guarantee, for this and for other laws, the maximum possible protection for minors, regardless of who they were born from and how they live. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Puglisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u305	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u306	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u307	Mr PUGLISI (PD). Madam President, Senators and Senators, we are the first in Europe to give, with the law that we are about to pass, protection to children and children, girls and boys, who have had their lives upset by the tragedy of killing their mother at the hands of their father, then suicidal in 30% of cases or subsequently detained. They are the so-called special orphans, about 1,600 from 2000 to 2014, as revealed by the research "Switch off" coordinated by Professor Anna Costanza Baldry, whom I greet, because he is following us. [[Applause from Senators Puppato and Idem.]] This is an important research in which, by meeting 123 orphans and their foster families, their needs have been analysed, to which we, through this measure, intend to respond. After so many years of silence, they need special attention, special answers, special protections and rights violated to be restored. They are silent spectators of heinous crimes, they hide in their minds the last moments of life of the woman who gave them life, they often remember her cries, requests for help, terror, silence when everything is over. The consequences of what they live are both physical and psychological and psychiatric, depending on the age of the children and how much violence they had to live before the murder. 80% of these deaths, in fact, come after much previous assisted violence. Reactions can be constructive or destructive, change according to their character. They experience trauma in trauma and the damage they suffer is exponential. This measure of civilization provides them with psychological medical assistance, scholarships and start-ups to work, thanks to access to the Fund, legal assistance already from the early stages of the trial with legal aid. In addition, the preservation of victims' property is established in order to strengthen the protection of orphans in relation to their right to compensation for the damage. It puts an end to the enjoyment of inheritance and survivor's pension for those guilty of murders in the family. Is that a perfect law? No, it's not. I share some of Senator Caliendo's remarks, also taken from the speeches in the Assembly of Senator Lo Giudice and Senator Lo Moro, but better an imperfect law, than no law, since we are at the end of the legislature. Then there is a question in this House: why do these orphans deserve special protection? Because we have ratified the Istanbul Convention - that is the answer - which recognizes in the killing of a woman as a woman a serious violation of human rights. It is legally binding and provides in Article 5 compensation for victims, Article 26 protection and support for children witnessing violence and Article 46 aggravating circumstances. From the criminal point of view the murder of uxoricide currently determines the application of an aggravated penalty, with the imprisonment from twenty-four to thirty years. With the approval of the bill in question will be arranged the special charge of life imprisonment, as already arranged against the killing of the ascendant or the descendant, in case the culprit is the spouse, also separated, the other part of the civil union, the person linked to the victim by affective relationship and with it permanently living together. (The sitting was suspended at 19.06 p.m. and resumed at 19.06 p.m.) With the measure that we are about to approve, therefore, we do not only make a systemic intervention, rather we definitely exceed the approach of the Code Rocco and its vision of women's citizenship. In the next parliamentary term, as many of you have asked, we will also have to extend this aggravating factor to the divorced spouse, to the part of the civil union, if it ceases, in order to overcome this differentiation of punishment between spouses and parts of the civil union and divorced on the one hand and former cohabitants on the other. In the budget law, I have verified, Senator Caliendo, that in reality the content of that amendment which we adopted unanimously has remained intact. They have only changed the title, unfortunately, I don't know what impetus and zeal for. With that amendment, which we adopted unanimously, we extend to all orphans of feminicide, that is also to those whose mother was killed as a woman by a rapist or a stalker, as unfortunately happened last summer in Esther Pasqualoni the oncologist doctor of Teramo mother of two children. I would also like to say to Senator Buccarella that that rule on remedial justice and stalking in fact we have already corrected it in the tax decree, so we have already intervened recognizing a mistake that Parliament had made with a government intervention. In this parliamentary term we have tried to tackle with great determination the contrast to male violence against women. We have, as I said, ratified the Istanbul Convention immediately, immediately after we have converted Decree-Law No. 93 of 2013 against feminicide and gender violence that inserts in our law important measures of protection and repression of crimes such as legal patronage for women victims of violence regardless of income conditions, warning and emergency removal from the family home, arrest in flagrante of crime of the abuser, the assault on violence assisted by minors. In order to promote real cultural change, in the reform of the school we have introduced the obligation for schools of every order and degree of inclusion in the three-year plans of the training provision actions of education for gender equality and prevention of gender violence aimed not only at students and students but also at families and teachers. Recently, Minister Faithful issued guidelines for respect education. In 2015 was presented by the Government the Extraordinary National Plan against Gender Violence that establishes the Cabin of Director between Ministries, Regions and institutions involved in the network of prevention, protection and repression of crimes and an observatory that also participates in anti-violence centers and civil society forces. Finally, on 19 April the Senate set up the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and Gender Violence, which I have the honour to preside over, and which in January, as defined yesterday in the Commission, will put its own conclusions to leave useful guidance to the next Parliament and the next Government on the way forward. I would like to take this opportunity to thank both the majority and the opposition for the harmony, seriousness and collaboration with which everyone is offering their contribution, which is not taken for granted with the approach of the electoral campaign and the loyal collaboration of all the institutions to the work of our inquiry. As found in the 2014 ISTAT investigations, the most serious perpetrators of violence - physical or sexual violence - are mainly the current partners or the former partners 2,800,000 women have been victims of their violence. However, if complaints of sexual violence (which does not mean that crimes have decreased) have decreased slightly, there is no doubt that reports of stalking and ill-treatment in the family have increased. Violence against women is a complex phenomenon that escapes statistics and goes far beyond the reports. It is that wave of hashtags, that time when young and old have brought out the sea of harassment and violence suffered in the workplace, in the family, on the bus, in the street, by the husband of the best friend, as denounced by Asia Silver and other women of the show, a daily matter of disrespect and oppression. While the number of murders has dropped dramatically in our country and has fallen by 39 percent, the reduction of female victims is only 14 percent, so, as General Tullio Del Sette pointed out at the hearing in the Committee of Inquiry, this leads to a relative increase in the number of murders with female victims. Not only that, but the data tells us that crime is getting more and more heinous. But if we have some of the most advanced legislation in Europe, including the law that we are voting on today, then why don't women report the violence they have suffered? This is the great political issue that we have to put to ourselves, trying to give the answers that women deserve. There is no doubt that it is necessary to offer paths of living and working autonomy to women who want to get out of domestic violence, as has been done with the extraordinary plan. We need the widespread presence of anti-violence centers and shelter houses and the closeness of the institutions, so that those women with children can immediately decide to leave the house before the irreparable event happens. And again, as Senator Lo Moro recalled in her speech, there is much to be done to coordinate the work of magistrates, lawyers and psychologists, ensuring that these professionals have adequate training and therefore the work of the university in this sense is also fundamental. I would like to recall here, because, unfortunately, they are not part of this measure, even the 46 children killed together with their mother, 18 killed for revenge against the former, including Federico Barakat, killed by his father in a protected meeting and Andrea Talpis, for which Italy was condemned by the European Court of Justice for not having heard complaints of domestic violence by the mother. It is precisely for this reason that one of the indications which Parliament will give, a recommendation which the Committee of Inquiry on Femicide will make, is that it will respect the Istanbul Convention even in the case of shared custody, which cannot be given when a judge has recognized the domestic violence suffered by his mother and children. Today we are taking an important step. We know that perhaps it is not the perfect law that we would all want, but we will vote with great determination because we are convinced that those children and those girls, those boys and those girls today have more rights and therefore it is to them that is dedicated, in the vicinity of Christmas. [[Applause from the PD Group and Art. 1-MDP-LEU.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u308	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u309	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u310	BUCCARELLA (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u311	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill No 2719 as a whole. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 172 Senators voting 171 Majority 87 Favorables 165 Contrars 5 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause]] Consequently, the draft law no. 2358 and 2424.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u312	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1324-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that, under Rule 104 of the Rules of Procedure, only the amendments made by the House of Deputies will be the subject of discussion and deliberations, except for the final vote. The rapporteur, Senator De Biasi, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u313	Mr President, the 12th Commission, which I honour to chair, has instructed me to report favourably to the House for its adoption without amendment of the draft law under consideration. In the course of the exposition, I shall therefore report on the measure as a result of the examination by the House and highlight the changes made to the text by the other branch of Parliament. In order to facilitate the work of everyone, I request permission to deliver the written text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u314	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u315	De Biasi, rapporteur. I would just like to focus on a few subjects which I think are of particular importance and interest. Colleagues, you know that the measure contains a delegation to the Government that we and our colleagues in the House of Deputies have worked on for a long time. It is clear that, having lasted a long time the exam, there was a need for a later update, because, in the meantime, new choices have been made and new problems grafted. It is therefore obvious that the text is amended. First of all, the first innovation that I find very important is the extension, in Article 1, of the revision of the framework for clinical trials of medicinal products for human use, also for the introduction of a specific reference to gender medicine, as well as to the paediatric age. This is a very important point, which we have discussed several times in this House and many others in the Commission. These are serious issues relating to rules on labour transparency in the field of research and some direct rules have been introduced between the principles and criteria of delegation. In particular, the rules referred to in Article 2 concern ethics committees. Let me say that this is a very important point, because ethical committees are the guarantee of the appropriateness and proper conduct of clinical trials. I shall not dwell on this because we have all lived in Stamina in this House. I therefore think it is particularly important to point out that the ethics committees are, in fact, ethical committees in the plural and not what was originally feared, namely a single ethical committee. There are territorial ethics committees, capable of fulfilling the function, which is truly proper and relevant. Article 3, which has been inserted by the Chamber of Deputies (in the text dismissed by the Senate the forecast was contained in Article 1), concerns provisions concerning gender medicine. Let me be clear about that. When we talk about gender medicine, we refer not to women's medicine, but to medicine for men and women, that is, respectful of the bodies and minds of men and women, very important with regard to drugs. Let's think about the clinical trials, mainly done on a male population. We think, therefore, of drugs that do not always have the same effect - indeed, almost never - on men and women. This should be normal, but it is not, so much so that inserting gender medicine means exactly that, that is to say, allowing respectful drugs to be placed on the market. I'm just an example of cardiovascular disease. Usually one tends to think that they are predominantly male diseases, but that is no longer the case. However, we know that drugs are mainly tested on males. Osteoporosis is normally considered a typically female disease. We know that is not the case, yet osteoporosis drugs are basically tested on women. It is, therefore, a norm - the one on gender medicine - that restores that difference so important, also as the value of medicine, from the point of view of training, in a mainstream perspective (so not specific faculties, but the possibility of a gender approach in all medical discipline and scientific discipline). Article 4 provides for a revision of the discipline of health orders and professions, which has been partially amended; in particular, it refers to the structuring of professional orders and orders on the territory, relations between federations and codes of ethics. Article 5 inserts within the national health system the area of socio-health professions (social health workers, social workers, sociologists, professional educators), provided that they are of a socio-sanitary nature, i.e. they belong to that area which tends to deal with an integrated discipline, which covers both social and health aspects. Article 6, inserted by the Chamber, amends the current rules on criteria and procedures for the establishment of new health professions. We know that this is a problem, because many professions press and it was right to give a protocol allowing, over time, a linear path for the possible inclusion of professions within the National Health Service. Article 7 provides that, within the health professions, the professions of the osteopath and chiropractor are to be identified, something else of extraordinary importance for our country. I just want to remind you that, from a recent research, the people who treat themselves with osteopathy in Italy are about 10 million, so let's talk about a very large phenomenon. It is important that, alongside the identification of the profession, there is the normal process of validation by the Higher Health Council and the State-Regions Conference, as well as the preparation of the training course and any equivalences. The other major professions remain unchanged. I would like to remind you that the novelty of this draft delegation law lies in an article that we have already approved (I should not have to talk about it, but I quote it so that it is clear to colleagues, because it has been a long time). I am referring to the recognition of a professional order in particular, in addition to nurses, biologists and others: that of medical radiology technicians, within which will be placed the albums of professions that contain less professionals, namely that they are smaller in the sense that they are smaller, but not less important for this reason. I am thinking, for example, of physiotherapists, podiatrists, dental hygienists, speech therapists. All these professions can finally have a register and, if they exceed 50,000 members, they can become a separate, autonomous order. I keep going fast, because there are so many things. Article 11 brings the news in relation to the Strategic Committee of the National Guidelines System, which is important in relation to the law on professional responsibility. Article 12 speaks of the crime of abuse of the profession and is of extraordinary importance because professional abuse is really one of the plagues that we must fight, especially in the field of health care. Let me just quote an article before concluding, knowing that there are, then, the articles that speak of the leadership of the Ministry of Health and the discipline of the maximum score of the titles related to the professional exercise in the contests for the assignment of pharmaceutical offices. There is an article - to which I think we all have to care a lot - that is the tightening of the penalties for all those who would not call professionals, but personal who in an unholy way acts violence against the elderly, the children, the disabled and the weakest people within the structures. [[Applause from Senator Bianconi.]] I am very much in favour of this subject and I think that this is a very important draft law and I hope it will be shared, because it will really allow us to work better in the Health Service and to respond to more than a million professionals who have been waiting for twelve years to be recognized in their professional quality. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u316	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u317	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law before us, also known as the Lorenzin bill, as the rapporteur also said in Chapter II, namely Article 4, deals with the health professions, which I am very pleased to see that I too return to those professions. The article refers, then, to the implementation of ministerial decrees that I hope can be issued in the next six months because, even if the Chambers will melt, the Government will be able to continue to work and therefore to acknowledge the reorganization of the disciplines of the orders of the health professions so long awaited. It is essential that the Orders have certain, democratic and shared rules of representation. Well, then, the limit of the mandates to the presidency of the various orders. As far as I am concerned, in these years of life of the various colleges there has been a sort of monopoly of presidencies and councils, as well as a way of carrying out elections within the latter very questionable. Therefore, the possibility of becoming Orders and giving more precise rules will probably result in a better mode of action in time than perhaps has been up to now. The draft law also regulates the abuse of the health professions, which unfortunately still remains today throughout our country in a widespread way, on various types of health professions, to the detriment of the people who take advantage of it and in general of our system, because it is however a social damage. There is, however, some concern that the rapporteur has stressed, with regard to putting together the technical professions with certain health professions: perhaps, as the rapporteur has said, this aspect will change in the future. After that, I have to say that the bill, which is said to have been awaited for ten years, complements Law No. 43 of 2006, which also concerned the reorganization of the health profession, somehow closing a circle. I'm glad. I would like to thank those who, in these years, before me, have spent themselves to get the recognition of Orders, including the old president of the IPASVI college, Annalisa Silvestro, who is here today, and the current president of the IPASVI college, Barbara Mangiacavalli, who is out of here: both probably have spent themselves to achieve this result. I also thank a colleague, Luca Benci, a nurse but also a jurist, because he too has carried out a political battle in recent years, albeit outside of here. In recent years, in which this provision has been in gestation, Benci has explained the goodness and the need to arrive at the conclusion of his iter. I am therefore pleased that this draft law can be put to the vote today. I shall vote in favour and thank you again. [[Applause from Senators Molinari, De Biasi and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u318	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u319	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Lorenzin, I too am pleased that this draft law has finally arrived in the Chamber in the Cesarini area. Clearly, we could do more, we could do better; that is true, and we also said so in the Health Commission. I must say that I believe the text that we had sent to the House is certainly better than what the House sent back to us. It is clear that there was a need to regulate the clinical trial of medicinal products, the application and dissemination of gender medicine. I will, however, focus on the two or three points which, all in all, I am most interested, especially in Article 4, that concerning the reordering of the discipline of the Orders of the health professions, which favours both the gender balance and the generational turnover in representation. It is true that on this subject not all the orders of doctors were agreed, but there are some points that I have been very interested in, which are the identification and establishment of the health professions of the osteopath and chiropractor. In my professional activity I have always been very close to these two categories and I have to say that they are two categories that almost look like ghosts, but then many patients turn to these professionals and many of these patients report to their doctor that from these professionals have obtained benefits: of the remarkable benefits. The reasons, therefore, why osteopathy must be recognized by now are quite clear for everyone. Firstly, for the protection of the osteopathic professional and also, however, for the protection of the citizen, who needs a right to health, as stated by the Italian Constitution itself in Article 32 and as requested by Europe. Osteopathy has reference models that make it a profession with adequate scientific evidence to support its effectiveness. And the constant use that citizens make of it to cure themselves is confirmation of this. Therefore, the game is now exclusively political because documents and reference evidence are known to everyone. I have heard that this is important because about ten million people are treated with osteopathy. True, it is the same ten million people who also turn to acupuncture and homeopathy. So I hope that, sooner or later, these professional figures, who are certainly professionals of medical support and integration, will finally be recognized and accepted by this Parliament as well. Let us remember that only in 1994 the Ministry of Health recognized the professional profile of the physiotherapist. Why am I talking about this? Because, until then, many physiotherapists have worked in a sort of abuse of the health profession. Many physiotherapists who now boast the title of health professionals have perhaps forgotten that physiotherapy has also gone through the same path that is now engaging in osteopathy. The need to regulate new health professions, such as osteopathy, stems from the need to protect citizens who, in increasing numbers, have been choosing it as a treatment system for twenty-five years now. Osteopathy finds its legitimacy as it is already recognised as a health profession by both the World Health Organisation and the EMC and is approved in March 2015 by the European Union in line and in support of the path undertaken by the Ministry of Health, which frames osteopathy among the health professions with a university education. I have worked and supported this choice in the Commission because I believe that, in an enlightened and competent manner, we must support the right causes that protect the citizen and pave the way for possible and desirable integration between the health professions, with the ultimate goal of the patient's health within an integrated system between different and complementary roles. Two agendas have also been approved by the Commission for the recognition of a graduate in motor science among health professions. We all know the value of the agenda, but I think it is time to stop ignoring the figure of the doctor in motor science, who, with her various specializations, has always been involved in promoting health prevention in different areas, without any professional recognition by the State. We are therefore thinking not only of motor education at school (which, in my opinion, must reach the levels of the education systems of Northern Europe), but also of fitness centres, gyms, health facilities, sports associations. When it comes to health, we cannot rely on unskilled personnel, and this is a serious problem, because, especially in the early age groups, motor education carried out incorrectly has a serious impact on the development and health of the child and consequently of the adult. We are also told that every euro spent in prevention through proper motor education saves more than four euros in health care costs. Despite the fact that graduates in motor science employed on the labour market continue to have a higher than average employment rate, one of the most critical points is the very high share of undeclared work. In fact, the percentage of graduates with an indefinite contract is very low. To complicate the situation there is then the problem of sharing spaces with physiotherapists, a historical guerrilla made of field invasions and professional jealousies: graduates in motor sciences on the one hand, physiotherapists on the other. Years ago Parliament passed a law that put the two professions on the same footing, but equivalence disgruntled too many and the Senate wiped it out without in any way healing the unequal treatment of these professionals. If in fact the doctor of motor sciences is denied the possibility to operate as physiotherapist (as I think right), the latter is allowed to operate in areas proper to the graduate in motor sciences and this is what many operators often do with acquired technical skills, but lacking the university qualification indispensable for interventions that concern health, prevention, educational processes and psychophysical balance. Having said this, in small words and doing a little 'interpretation on what the legislator wrote, the graduate in motor science would have non-exclusive skills and possibilities in gyms, fitness centers, in the reeducational intervention, in the athletic preparation and in the managerial field. This interpretation is made necessary by the fact that the aforementioned legislative decree does not talk about what the graduate in motor science does or can do, but in reality only about the knowledge he should possess. This distinction may seem trivial, but in reality it is not at all, because there is a difference between having knowledge and being the sole executioner to put it into practice. From here we come to create the basic misunderstanding of the graduate in motor science, guardian of knowledge then put in place by anyone. Therefore, the inclusion and practice of physical education within schools must no longer be an ideal, but a concrete fact, given the fundamental importance that the movement has for the harmonious psychocorporeal development in the evolutionary age. I have to say that I have contributed to this process, I am glad that the bill has come to the House and that it has been approved by most of us, but I would be very pleased if this agenda would also turn into a real thing and not just in words written on a sheet. [[Applause from Senators Molinari and Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u320	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u321	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the thousands of citizens who have written to me their ideas on the draft law under consideration. Being a broad measure and dealing with many aspects, I have highlighted many considerations and warnings, but one in particular, that of Mr Antonio, I consider it very interesting and motivated and I would like to read it to you: The bill Lorenzin is yet another useless, even harmful bill, in fact it is not a tool to renew the health professions and it does not even configure the health professions in order. He continues with his usual clientele attitude to propose congrats for that or that other lobby. There is no concrete attention to the protection of public health, the real problems of Italian health are not addressed. As usual, Lorenzin's method is coercive without any involvement of health professions. At the end of the parliamentary term, it is not correct to carry out rules aimed at facilitating the usual categories, not to mention the disgusting norm of doctors of the Ministry of Health (Article 17) appointed by sudden leadership. Article that has been repeatedly declared unconstitutional and last by the 1st Commission, constitutional affairs, of the House. Lorenzin doesn't remember that various television broadcasts (the broadcast "Report" of 2 December 2013 that talks about the famous amendment Polverini sonorously rejected wasn't enough! (...)) and newspapers that have already denounced the shame of this initiative is nothing more than electoral blackmail. Let's see what this article 17 says, which at the first reading of the Senate had entered as 13 and went out as 14 and into the House entered as 14 and came out as 17. First of all, it is interesting to note that the first dossier of the Senate Studies Service, with reference to this article, said: It would seem appropriate to evaluate the relationship of this Article 13 with the rules of delegation in matters of public management referred to in Article 11 of Law No 124 of 7 August 2015, which provides for the creation of a single role of state leaders in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. I am not aware of this assessment, but it is really interesting to see how the Polverini amendment has been translated into this article 17 and is truly a masterpiece: paragraph 2 of the Polverini amendment has become paragraph 1 of Article 17; paragraph 3 of the Polverini amendment has become paragraph 2 of Article 17; paragraph 1 of the Polverini amendment (first and fourth period) has become paragraph 3 of Article 17; paragraph 1 of the Polverini amendment (second and third period) has become paragraph 4 of Article 17 and paragraph 4 of the Polverini amendment has become paragraph 5 of Article 17; paragraph 6 of the Polverini amendment has remained paragraph 6 of Article 17 and guess what it is? It is the formula of ritual: The implementation of the provisions of this Article shall not result in any new or increased burden on the budget of the State. Here arises the spontaneous question: how can you not determine a higher expense if you increase your salary to 400 managers? But let's see what was said by the transmission "Report" of which the author is the journalist Mottola: in September 2013, after entering Parliament, Polverini wrote amendment 4-b.09 to the bill "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law 31 August 2013, n. 101, with urgent provisions for the pursuit of rationalization objectives in public administrations", which concerned about 400 doctors, pharmacists, biologists and psychologists who worked at the Ministry of Health as health managers and who earned about 100,000 euros per year. The Polverini proposes, with this amendment, that they be placed on the same level as the heads of the National Health Service, earning up to 180,000 euros per year. Cosimo Arnone, responsible for the civil service of the CGIL, says that, from a practical point of view, for the health of citizens, this intervention does not improve the functionality of the Ministry of Health and there will be no change for citizens. It also states that it will be the next national employment contract that will have to pay the cost of this amendment, which is therefore borne by the community. However, this amendment has a very tormented path and in September 2013, after having been put in the decree for rationalization, it is considered inadmissible. At this point the amendment is presented to the Senate, but this time by the Democratic Party. But it is again rejected, because it is deemed unconstitutional. After that, he returns for the third time thanks to the PdL that puts him in the law of stability and for the third time he is rejected. Interesting also to note that a paragraph of this article will determine an advantage for a small group of officials, that Cosimo Arnone himself of the civil service of the CGIL quantify in less than five people: a paragraph ad personas. Finally today, after a four-year pregnancy, this amendment will be given birth. Congratulations on your stubbornness! I would like to say that there are many objectionable things in this bill, also the fact, for example, that you give the opportunity to a Book, at the request of your legal representative, to become Order. I believe that it should be the majority of Members who request it, because it will involve increased expenditure (secretary, structural and other expenditures). This is another element. We have already heard many Orders, present for some years, complain about this fact, as, at the hearing, the order of veterinarians. A law was already in existence: Article 5 of Law No 43 clearly regulated how to establish health professions. Why hasn't it been applied? Why did this bill feel the need to replace it? Why did this bill create only two professional figures, the osteopate and chiropractor, and not the expert in motor science, as the colleague said before? Nor has there been any clarity on the socio-health professions and we agree with them. In our opinion it was also necessary to avoid engraving... [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u322	Conclude, Senator Gaetti.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u323	GAETTI (M5S). ... on all those that prepare our young people, who are deluded and spend money to have shortcuts to achieve professionalism, which they do not actually have. We therefore believe that the measure under consideration should have affected many other problems, which it does not even consider. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u324	Colleagues, are enrolled to speak in general discussion Senator Zuffada and Senator Silvestro. The follow-up to the general debate is postponed until tomorrow's sitting, but it is understood that the entries for speaking here remain closed. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u325	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u326	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u327	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, TAP (Trans-Adriatic Pipeline) never ceases to amaze us, in the negative sense, of course, because, after having carried out an indiscriminate destruction of our territory, eradicating olive trees, destroying campaigns on the entire coast of Salento, it has now begun to buy spaces in magazines to advertise itself. The last absurdity, in fact, we see printed with white characters on a green background, on the official monthly periodical of the Italian Union belonging to the police (SIAP). The magazine is this and this is advertising: it's two whole pages, heart attack of a becera rhetoric, about the fact that the TAP pipeline will have no impact on the environment. (Senator Donno shows the magazine at the Assembly.) But what movie have these gentlemen seen? It reads on these pages that TAP does not pollute, because it is limited to transporting the gas and has zero impact. And again, it is said that air pollution and emissions in Puglia will decrease. They also have the magical sphere to predict what will happen! These are things that do not exist, because these pipelines are time bombs, ready to exterminate not only the ecosystem, but also human lives, and we also saw it with the accident in Austria. Did these people read the newspapers less than ten days ago when the dangerous explosion occurred inside a gas compression and distribution station? Evidently not. Do they know that one person died and dozens of people were injured? Evidently not. Don't the papers read them here? Do they know that what happened in the Austrian gas pipeline represents a potential risk that could affect even the Apulians and, more generally, Italy? TAP, spreading these contents, buying advertising spaces and elating English and cooking courses, and also publishing in police union magazines, is carrying out a disinformation work. So, look out! We don't fall into the trap of TAP hoaxes. If they continue to use paid advertising, it means that they have a desperate need to spread news, real fake news, which would not publish anyone for free: it is obvious! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u328	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u329	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u330	BATTIST (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, this afternoon we mentioned our missing colleague, Mr Altero Matteoli. Today, with amazement and even with opposition, I read an article on "Libero" signed by Renato Farina, which reports a series of insults, which were addressed on the web to Altero Matteoli. Who writes, the author of this article, Mr. Farina, turns to the style of the left, who exults at the death of Matteoli and reports some despicable comments. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that even in response to the tweet, which was made by the Senate account, we have read insults. What happens on the net and has not been talked about enough, is a phenomenon that does not have a political color. There is a part of our electorate (I wouldn't even know if to define it like that), a part of the citizens, a part of the population who thinks that these comments leave no sign and instead it is not true. Just with President Matteoli we incardinated a draft law in Commission 8a in my first signature which led the Commission to deepen a speech on the traceability of authors on social platforms. We have noted that this investigation is complex and difficult. Even when the journalist writes that the complaints have started, it is absolutely not automatic that the investigative activity done by our law enforcement forces can lead to a result. So I invite everyone to look into this subject. I would like those who report comments that are written on the web to deepen what is happening in the network. There are very important hearings, of the Carabinieri manager, of Dr. Giustozzi, of the service provider manager, who gave us important elements. Unfortunately, the legislature is due to expire and I am sorry that we have not been able to complete this bill. I am sure that this is a current topic and that since the next legislature it will have to be deepened, because what happens on the web, done by the top players, is something aberrant. Facebook was born to communicate students on a campus. Now this is happening in another context, there are other rules and above all there are other effects, so first of all we politicians must also have a correct tone and in this regard I also supported last week's initiative on words that are not hostile, but then, what happens on the web must be regulated. You can also maintain the right to anonymity, but people who write in these tones on the web must be able to be easily identified by the Forces of Order. [[Applause from Senator Orellana]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u331	Perhaps there was some clarification on the Farina article.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u332	BATTIST (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Yes, I mentioned it at the beginning: it addresses only one political color when, in my opinion, these comments are made from all sides.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u333	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-920.ana.u334	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, December 22, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.54 p.m.
