ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 9.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 30 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. From now on, therefore, the deadline of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:08 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2801, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Mantero and others deputies; Locatelli and others; Murer and others; Roccella and others; Nicchi and others; Binetti and others; Carloni and others; Miotto and others; Nizzi and others; Fucci and others; Calabro and Binetti; Brignone and others; Iori and others; Marzano; Marazziti and others; Giordano Silvia and others, 5, 13, 87, 177, 443, 485 and 1973.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u7	MARINELLO (AP-CpE-NCD). Madam President, yesterday, when we began the debate on such a controversial and divisive subject, we listened to everything and more. We have also heard in an absolutely improper way several times references to an alleged will or desire of the Supreme Pontiff. The quotation is absolutely inappropriate in an Italian Parliamentary Chamber for obvious reasons: here we obviously legislate under the Constitution and in a state that has absolute sovereignty. The references are even more out of place because the quotations were absolutely wrong. We have often heard confusion between different concepts: euthanasia and therapeutic bitterness are absolutely different concepts and practices. The fundamental issue of my speech today is the question of constitutionality raised yesterday. I listened carefully to the speeches and I was particularly impressed by Senator Manconi's intervention. Your speech has convinced me deeply of the unconstitutionality of this bill in the form we are examining. There are a number of issues to be raised and put forward, but I would like to start with a principle, which is the assumption that none of us live for ourselves and no one dies for himself. The draft law in question, while never using the term euthanasia, has in fact and in substance a euthanasic content. In fact, it basically brings back in the power of the person the willingness to self-determination of a good as unavailable as human life. For the first time in our order the principle of the availability of human life against that of its unwillingness is explicitly affirmed. Therefore, life is made available and this is evident in Article 1, paragraph 5, when it is specified that the patient can express his or her resignation or refusal of health treatments necessary for his or her survival. This, in addition to being very serious in itself and affecting the foundations of medical ethics, makes us ask why other goods, objectively less relevant, in life, are not considered at all as available. I would like to give examples: it is well known that the possibility of not enjoying holidays or of permuting holidays in a different way on the part of the worker citizen is not in the availability of the citizen himself. There is no renunciation; holidays cannot be switched into additional allowances. The citizen cannot have full availability of his/her social security contributions because, if he/she did, the citizen could have his/her own social security contributions using different insurance systems and protections and alternatives to social security or private social security funds. I could give other examples of this kind. Yet we are talking about things far less important than protecting life. Another consideration is that in the initial wording of the draft law there was talk of declarations and - by chance - the text that comes to us no longer speaks of declarations, but of provisions. It will not escape this House that the difference is not to be understood only from the lexical point of view, but has absolutely different legal findings. Another fundamental aspect, on which we cannot agree, is the definition of artificial nutrition and hydration as a health treatment, because nutrition and hydration are absolutely not to be considered forms of treatment and confuse the essence and the purpose of a thing with the medium is an absolutely showy mistake. Nutrition and hydration are essential supports for life, both for the healthy person and for the sick. They do not lose their essence when the means of their implementation is not the ordinary one. It should be added, among other things, that the interruption of nutrition and hydration leads to the death of the person, therefore in fact the healthcare professional who lends himself to such a practice, in fact performs an active euthanasia intervention. In the same euthanasic direction goes also the aspect that concerns the discipline of the revocations of the anticipated dispositions of treatment, because the DATs, in fact, as they can be rendered, can be revoked, but can be revoked by a person in the full capacity of understanding and will. When this does not occur, when the subject becomes incapable, who is given the power to interpret or apply these DATs? These provisions will be applied by a possible support administrator, by a trustee who, in turn, may be in a clear conflict of interest with the patient who, at other times and at another time, has made the DATs. Or, in the absence of a trustee, it should be the doctor, the health care professional who interprets these statements, but this too poses problems and has consequences of responsibility on the health care professional who, in fact, do not compete with it. This discourse and this same reasoning we can apply to the discipline in favor of minors and incapable: in this case, we would find ourselves in another area, which is that of the so-called euthanasia of the non consenting. Finally, another fundamental issue is the alteration of the medical-patient relationship. In general, the medical-patient relationship, for the guidelines of the jurisprudence, but also for the legislation that has crossed over these decades, has always been considered an absolutely balanced relationship, based on the patient's right to information and the duty of health care to inform (the so-called informed consent), essentially linked to the free determination of the relationship bene-fiduciary. This kind of rule that we want to introduce into our system, instead, alters this principle and all this would put the healthcare professional or the doctor in a position of absolute weakness, exposing it from the legal point of view to a whole series of consequences that the law does not foresee, or better still that the law of fact provides when it says that the doctor is exempt, in the application of the DAT, from any involvement of a civil or criminal nature. This, in fact, is a very serious admission, because it means that we are faced with a rule that goes beyond the scope announced and that is, in fact, a premise for legislation towards euthanasic forms that we absolutely do not agree with and do not appreciate. Consequently, Madam President, we are in open violation of Articles 2, 13 and 32 of the Constitution. We firmly believe that this rule is absolutely not in line with our constitutional dictates, so we will vote in favour of it. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u10	Mr Calderoli (Misto-LpSP). Madam President, we are dealing with a procedural issue, so I would like to point out how we have reached this point. It seems to me, in fact, that the last week was Kafkiana or, better, fantozziana as a route. Last week, Madam President, at the Conference of Leaders which was to set the time for the discussion of trust, the President, in a very timely manner, proposed to the Leaders that, unanimously, we could schedule today, indeed yesterday, the debate on the reform of the Rules of Procedure. I think it was a very appropriate initiative, because the only real, great reform that can or could be done in this parliamentary term is the reform of our Rules of Procedure. Everyone was completely in agreement, except the Leader of the 5 Star Movement, who opposed it as usual, unfortunately doing perhaps a favor to former President Renzi, who sees Senate reform as smoking in his eyes. Everything would have been resolved with a normal Conference of the Leaders on yesterday, on which everyone would have agreed; pity that there was a weekend, which saw several initiatives: the birth of the anonymous party of the left, with the merger of the various pieces of the left; the President Grasso who adheres to this initiative; the former mayor of Milan Pisapia who asks, in order to establish the agreement with the Democratic Party, to carry forward the ius soli and the law on the end of life. So there is a race, also supported by former President Renzi, because precisely on December 4th we celebrated the funerals of the old constitutional reform and the end of his career - I hope - politics. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The SEL, MDP, PD and M5S groups also participate in the race, all trying to put the hat on the end-of-life treatment, the so-called DAT. Madam President, what happened yesterday in this House has not been noticed or understood; then it is good to remember, with respect to so many declared desires to carry on the ius soli, rather than the treatment of the end of life, that yesterday, in this House, the Parent Group of MDP and the Parent Group of the Mixed Group (but as an exponent of SEL) proposed that the timetable should be changed and that the so-called ius soli should be put as a first step. This meant that the agenda proposed by the President would be reversed. At the time of the vote, SEL and MDP voted against the reversal of the order of business: they voted against their own proposal. I don't know if they're there or they're doing it. Because if they do, I'm sorry, but they don't play on such important principles; if there are, it's even worse and, if they didn't even realize that they voted against their own proposal, it's really funny. But it doesn't stop here. At this point, in fact, the Democratic Party, always a supporter of the ius soli, proposed the biotestament and put it alone in the sixth point of the calendar: that is, if it goes well (or better if it goes wrong), it will be done between two legislatures. The only one who could have spoken on this order of factors would have been President Grasso, because the only authority the President has without consulting the Assembly is to reverse the agenda, but President Grasso in the Group Leader said he did not intend to use this option. Let's be clear and round, then: we have arrived at the end of the life of the sun ius, you have done the euthanasia of the sun ius. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I thank you, because I am honoured to have been able, for two years and three months, to hold the measure first in the Commission with 8,000 amendments and then in this House with 50 000 amendments, because you had scheduled it in mid-June last year and it has not been seen again. Honour to soldier Calderoli; honour to the League Group, who has done everything to disassemble the House on the day that someone violently wanted to bring it to the Chamber; honour to the movement I represented, because now I am from the Mixed Group, rather than from the League for Salvini Premier, who will be in Rome on Sunday to show that that law is never discussed. But for me that provision is dead! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Turning to the subject under discussion, I shall vote in favour of the reference for a preliminary ruling. I am opposed to therapeutic aggression, but I am also opposed to euthanasia. There were so many possibilities of solving the so-called DAT, i.e. the anticipated treatment arrangements, but not in the way it was done, because suspending hydration and feeding is inhuman and unsustainable. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] , because it means to make a person die of thirst and hunger. If there hadn't been that series of steps, I would have voted for a good DAT personally, but I can't accept that someone comes to us not to say assisted suicide, but even assisted murder, and, among other things, to the health care staff to commit it. You can't choose who's an executioner in life. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Sacconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u11	We shall now proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1. Verification of the quorum CALDEROLI (Misto-LpSP). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 2801, 5, 13, 87, 177, 443, 485 and 1973 President. I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Quagliariello and other senators. It's not approved. He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u12	Madam President, this law absolutely does not oppose us, in the sense that there is no possibility of meetings to make some necessary corrections: corrections that highlight certain fundamental issues. We certainly agree with the DATs, but the provisions - which would be better defined as "declarations" - anticipated treatment should have a certain duration, because after years subjects can change their mind and situations change. Even a national register is not specified, which would mean that different declarations can be made in each region. Do you realize there's something screaming? Establishing a period of validity is not our idea or my personal idea, but it is an idea also suggested by some doctors: establishing a period of validity means making those statements consistent and current and effective that disposition or declaration to which you want to follow. How can you let the doctor say when the statements - or dispositions, as you want to call them - anticipated treatment may not be implemented and disregarded, in agreement with the trustee, i.e. when they appear manifestly inconsistent and not corresponding to the critical condition of the patient at that time? Do you realize that? The assessment of the possible appropriateness of end-of-life provisions is referred to third parties. It doesn't seem consistent to me. In Article 3, it is said that a person who is underage or unable to understand or want is entitled to use his or her understanding skills and then, in the second paragraph, that informed consent to the child's health treatment is expressed by parents. My question is: are we sure that under 18 years of age does not have the capacity to express consent? I'm talking about the child who turned 16, who can contract marriage and engage in a number of activities, including business administration. I wonder whether it is correct that the consent or dissent of the child or of the 16-year-old does not have any significance. I was lucky or unlucky, depending on the opinions, to participate years ago in a research of the Cancer Institute of Milan, together with a series of cancers and pediatricians of our country, aimed at assessing what could be the level of consent of the minor and if this had its value. We came to the conclusion, also on the basis of existing rules of civil and criminal law, that the person who has reached the age of sixteen has not only the possibility but also the right to express his consent. In fact, the dissent of the under 14 would require an assessment by the court to protect whether it differs from the opinion of the parents. Beware that I am not talking about an informed consent in general, but about an informed consent that affects the quality of the next life. Imagine a boy who, due to cancer, should be amputated of both legs or even of a leg or arm, an operation that affects the quality of the next life: do you or do you not have the right to express your consent? I come to the other question: "For the purposes of this law," - I quote from article 1, paragraph 5 - "artificial nutrition and artificial hydration are considered health treatments, as they are administered, on a medical prescription, of nutrients through medical devices." Do you realize what the difference is between the gastric probe and the one who, being unable to feed himself, must be helped by his relative, nurse or anyone else who takes him and helps him eat? These days I have asked some colleagues what they think of the case of the one who is being helped. Some have told me that this is also a health treatment, while others feel that they are not. Of course, according to this rule, as it is written, if I help someone who alone cannot eat (think of a person suffering from Parkinson's disease or other pathologies), if I enter it, it is not a health treatment, according to some, but an act of humanity, of pity, of help and affection, while according to others it is a health treatment. If, by hypothesis, the interpretation thesis prevails so that it is not a health treatment (as I believe), do you realize what the difference is? Simply because the other feed is done with the gastric probe it is a different case, so in your opinion there should be the possibility of suspending what is, no more or less, a power supply. I am convinced from the beginning that our Constitution allows a conscious person to decide that he does not want to feed himself and let himself die with the pains of those who are hungry; but do you think it is correct that third parties decide to suspend nutrition and hydration when no other medical care is needed, when there is no need for medicine to keep him alive? Reason. Today some newspapers report that some doctors, in assessing so-called palliative care, believe that hydration and artificial nutrition are not involved, that we are out of necessity. I believe that there is a fundamental principle of pietas and affections that exists in our country as it exists all over the world, where there is a civilization that considers the human being as something different from what should be a toy: otherwise you want to explain why I must be able to get rid of a toy that no longer serves? In this case, I should force an individual to die not because of illness, not because of lack of medical assistance, but because I don't want to feed him? I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying that these are three points (and perhaps there are others). If there were to be a minimum of dialogue and understanding, since a serious debate on the amendments could not be held in the Commission, this could also be a text voted by us. Our position is clear and precise, but it invites you to reflect, unless you want, as you have done throughout this parliamentary term, to use the strength of the majority to impose solutions without debate. [[Applause from Senator Pelino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u13	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u14	Madam President, on yesterday's occasion, in the introduction to the subject under discussion, I had the feeling that the President of the 12th The Commission, of course, for the reasons it has told us not as rapporteur, has set aside the profile which, in my opinion, in the Commission would have been of greater interest and development for the work of amendment. Let us hope it is in this House. What is this aspect? The aspect is that of the role, responsibility and condition of the doctor. In fact, from this point of view, the President would have done well to introduce our work if he had noticed how far this proposal appears from the text that, at least in the Senate, we voted in the last parliamentary term. A prestigious colleague, in dissent from his Group and with personal motivations (the former president of the Senate Marcello Pera), then said: but the text Calabro (it was Calabro the rapporteur and for this I call him so) deploys around the bed of the dying a sort of faculty council to represent the various specializations and articulations of modern medicine. Here, however, everything has changed radically. There is a profile of the responsibility and profession (once it was also called a vocation) of the doctor of a chilling loneliness. Therefore, from this point of view, which I think is very interesting for what we must try to do in this House, the whole article, since Article 1, is moving in a perhaps more current, more modern and more functional conception of the doctor, but in which the doctor is no longer a professional, he is a bureaucrat. And this is a trend, perhaps for reasons of regional policy rather than national policy, which we have met several times in this House. There's some sort of change of approach to the health profession. The doctor becomes almost a person to defend himself against. Somehow the light is overturned in which in the last days of his suffering (later died) one of the greatest Italian writers, Leonardo Sciascia, to those who asked him how he was responding: I am abandoning the ground in which hope is the last to die and I fearfully approach the territory in which the last hope is to die. Yes, but in this transition, the most secular, illuminist (and all we know about him), Leonardo Sciascia placed the profession-vocation of the doctor; and not necessarily of the specialist, wanting to collect some of Marcello Pera's objections to the text of Calabro. The first line of paragraph 1 of Article 1 refers to norms of the Constitution that would offer the obligatory references of the new legislation; Article 2 and Article 32 of the Constitution are mentioned. Now, with the argument that the proposal would concern health and rights, presumed or real, the mention of Article 2 and Article 32 is by no means out of place. What, however, is very misunderstanding and I am surprised that the President of the Health Commission did not feel that she had to submit it to this House...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u15	Excuse me, Senator Compagna, I remind you that President De Biasi has not carried out a report, because she has resigned as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u16	COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Yes, but he summed up the work in the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But we can't charge them for valuation mistakes. COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). For God's sake, Madam President, I simply said that to argue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I wanted to remind the House of the course of the measure. COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). My reference was much further, recalling the controversy between Calabro and Pera. The problem, however, is: if this is the object of the proposed law, why should Article 13 of the Constitution also be mentioned in the text? This article, on the premise of the inviolability of personal freedom, places the legal reserve for a specific judicial measure that restricts personal freedom, also by the public security authority. Yesterday the House, although I and Senator Gasparri were of different opinion, decided to postpone the fundamental chapter of the regulation of the relationship between citizens, police and judicial authorities, which would emerge in the profiles of the so-called self-defense, which is always very difficult to establish. What sense does it make then in a bill such as that to our examination send a kind of warning and warning to the doctor? It seems that you want to tell the doctor to be careful because if he does not carry out the provisions literally (no longer the statements, as in the most candid text of Calabro), no matter that these have been elaborated a year or ten years before, he will be considered as a subject that limits the other freedom, someone from whom the patient must defend himself rather than rely. Here the bitter condition in which Leonardo Sciascia felt in the last times of his life has been overturned. This translates into a problem that we have already encountered in other health laws; the doctor becomes an increasingly less professional figure and more and more employed, who needs a "attorney in the pocket." The greater commitment the doctor will have to make in applying the bill to our examination should have been to make the patient understand and accept every single step of the therapy and instead it seems that his task is to establish a contractual scheme. This is why there is no longer respect for the free profession: the doctor's relationship with the patient becomes a relationship with the client. It is a mortifying contractual scheme for the doctor and for the family members of those in a condition such as that of Leonardo Sciascia. During this journey the doctor will fatally, depending on the evolution or involution of the disease and the need for therapy, need a lawyer daily. If consent could not extend to therapy at different times of the disease (then, how could it?), you have to ask yourself how a good doctor should behave. So far a good doctor has asked himself, his conscience and his professional code, and I must say that Articles 33 and 35 of the Code of Medical Deontology are beautiful, are full of humanity and illustrate better, much better than so many parts of the proposal to our examination, the clear and clear rules to guarantee their own and the other freedoms that doctors must observe. Instead, here the doctor is seen as a potential executor of crimes or of wrongdoing. Let's take paragraph 6 of Article 1 of the bill at our examination, in which it is said that the doctor is obliged to respect the will expressed by the patient to refuse the health treatment or to renounce the same and, as a result, is free from civil or criminal liability. This is what paragraph 6 of article 1 of the bill says and, frankly, it is a punch in the stomach compared to articles 33 and 35 of the code of ethics, which I have quoted. If in a legal text, a legislative text, there is a need to set such a broad exemption from civil or criminal liability, it is because the conduct claimed by the doctor is in itself within the limits of the penal code, the civil code or both. With this passage, with this aspect, only apparently lateral and marginal, the law does not say that it admits, but states unequivocally that it is requiring the doctor to commit what, without the specific and explicit fact of this paragraph 6, would be an unlawful or even a crime. So it is clear that the doctor becomes more and more exposed to complaint and damage actions, among other things without adequate insurance coverage. In the operation of the proposed rules we will be faced with a patient many times not fully aware of himself, who may have left years earlier also very precise dispositions of suspension of the therapy, from which would result a fatal outcome. With respect to the time of the signing of the provisions - not of the declaration - who knows how the pathology evolved? It may have become attackable with reasonable predictions of success, not only ambitious and eager, but the sick cannot be aware of it. If the doctor, respecting those wills, will let him die, there will be the complaint of paragraph 6 of Article 1, but the human condition and I believe also professional of the doctor will be tremendous and of the intervention, friendship and assistance even daily of the lawyer will have nothing to do with it. We are then faced with an approach that seeks to mitigate, to make the role of the doctor less and less credible. This seems to me to be the insurmountable limit that built the proposal approved in the House. Among other things, I was struck by the way in which these speeches were made in Parliament's classrooms but also in the bars there were so many delicacies of principle. When we came to the point, given the political stances, I expected a large majority of the House, but the opposition, obviously even more important even if only with the testimony of 37 Members, confirmed me in the idea that there is legislation, that there are codes and that the fact that ethical legislation and ethical codes should exist is something that is not good for Parliament or for the concept of regulation. From this point of view, then, having insisted on Article 1, let me also refer to Article 2, which is presented as the real object of the proposal, namely the so-called prohibition of therapeutic aggression. I have the impression that it is a journalistic, ideological, chronic, even effective formula, but in everyday life therapeutic bitterness is something that is very difficult to meet, unless we address such distrust in doctors and medicine that leads, to alleviate the pain of the relatives, to invent a hope, a magician, a healer, that is, to completely overturn the condition that Sciascia attributed to himself. If anyone has attended a hospital, where there are truly dramatic pathologies and there is a colorful humanity that is next to the family or friend hospitalized, he knows that the so-called therapeutic aggressiveness no one has ever met him. If anything, in view of that process of bureaucratization of the profession and vocation of the doctor, it happens to have an opposite tendency: very often expensive therapies are denied that might even have some chance of success: it is said that it is not worth it, the age is too advanced, the pathology is irreversible, the management is complex or could take over mental diseases. But a national health system can't think like that. From this point of view, I have repeatedly, in vain, put to the House the shame of 20 or 21 lists of regional medicines, including so-called life-saving medicines. A life-saving medicine cannot be allowed for a child in Lombardy and not for a child in Molise, if it concerns children. These are the considerations, all of which focus on the position of the doctor, which I wanted to put to the House. [[Applause from Senator Davico]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u17	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u18	Madam President, in order to contribute to the adoption of this draft law, I shall refrain from speaking in this House and ask that I be able to deliver the written text so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. I announce that my vote on the measure will be in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u19	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u20	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u21	Madam President, the issue of end-of-life has been the subject of political and parliamentary debate for years, sometimes even with torn and dramatic aspects. It was decided not to change (at least this is the majority orientation) the text that came from the Chamber of Deputies, avoiding those changes and adjustments that even appear necessary. I do not believe that this debate should lead to obstructive attitudes, but I do not think that we can evade the issues of merit. In the Chamber of Deputies, the Forza Italia Group voted against the measure, obviously leaving to individuals the power to take different decisions (as always happens, but even more so on a subject of this nature). I recall that the position taken in the Chamber of Deputies was not binding and I am pleased that it was confirmed at yesterday's meeting of our Parliamentary Senate Group. I am saying these things to clarify a little, given the misinformation I saw last night on the news (our meeting ended around 8.30 p.m. and it is therefore understandable that there was not yet a clear position). Yesterday, as the President of our Group, Senator Paolo Romani (and I am grateful for that), after the debate on the subject, the Group of Forza Italia al Senato decided what position to take, given the reasons for merit that various colleagues are presenting, which I too will briefly call back and which others will stress after, like Senator Rizzotti and others, they have worked in the Commission in a serious, proactive and responsible manner, but without being listened to. Our reasons for opposition are therefore prevalent and then individuals who want to take different decisions will obviously have the full power to do so; However, there is a clear no, and I would also like it to be evident in communication and in the position taken. I also say this to the world of information: there is no freedom of conscience and the absence of a position and then some are opposed; there is the no of our Group and then the freedom of conscience and the autonomy of individual people. The position of Forza Italia is this, moreover reiterated in the merit also by our leader, Silvio Berlusconi, who has spoken on these issues several times. Days ago, on a television show, he said that the doctor and family should evaluate that last trait of life and clearly said no to the law on biotestation and DAT. This is the position that Forza Italia takes and reiterates, without obstructionism and without mixing religious aspects with a debate that is all secular. I am a Catholic and I do not think that we should apologize for this in our country (sometimes it seems so, but I do not); however, here the question is addressed from the secular point of view of the legislation of the State. There is a protection of the illiberal state that prevents the doctor even from reserve his autonomy and his conscientious objection. There is no register for DAT, with the result that paradoxical events can occur in emergencies. I repeat, there may be an emergency situation. Let us think of a person who has made the statement and who, still conscious, wants to correct it. According to the procedures provided for in the measure you would like to approve, we would need video surveillance and the presence of two witnesses and the doctor. What if there's an accident, a dramatic moment, and a decision has to be made? What do we do? Looking for the camera? And if there is no doctor or if there are no witnesses what is it? Renzo and Lucia's wedding, with witnesses popping up in front of Don Abbondio? This bill is an absurdity, a barbarism. I say this precisely for the superficial and crude aspects that are left also from the point of view of the most secular technical and scientific evaluation (and I leave out of this discussion other aspects of religious and moral order). We therefore consider it a mistake to introduce the availability of human life in this legislative debate, which is not provided for by our constitutional principles (and this was also one of the reasons for the submission of the preliminary question of constitutionality). As for the consideration of nutrition and hydration as health treatments, in paragraph 5 of Article 1 there are some absolutely regrettable aspects. We think, among other things, of a comparison with people with disabilities or even a child who is fed "artificially" when, of course, he does not have his autonomy to provide for himself. In short, basically in this law there are very clear euthanasic drifts, so there is a sort of recognition of the right to suicide. Now, we are dealing with complex and sensitive issues, which is why we believe that the therapeutic alliance between family members and doctors is the only place to make decisions. Therapeutic ferocity is a mistake and a horror and those who support it are wrong. Even today that medicine allows us to cross borders that are once insurmountable, I believe - as I believe all people of common sense - that there are limits beyond which we must not go, not even with the progress of current science. Here we are in the Senate, so as a rule we must have passed a certain age, otherwise we would not be here: we had therefore an experience of life of family, relatives or friends whose life has died, because death is part of the earthly path of life. So who, at a certain age, has never - and I believe in others - been interviewed with a doctor about the unnecessary attempt, the exhaustion of physical forces and the death that comes? I think it has happened to many - many times in my life - in the family and in friendship, to note that at some point a journey had been exhausted and that therefore also the care given with love, affection and competence in the end became useless. I therefore believe that it would have been better not to make a law on these aspects, which responds to the media-propagandistic drives of some who, with cynicism, have made certain tragedies a media affair, shoving it in our faces even inside the Parliament's classrooms. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] , for purposes which, for some parties with the "zerovirgola" of consents, were of survival, with their cynicism that is always the same: on life, on drugs, on everything. They are always the same people who talk about the same wrong things (can you say that?). [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] And we legalize drugs, and we legalize suicide and we do this other: always bearers of death and destruction, with the air of being those who free society from constraints, prohibitions and oppressions. Where is oppression in saying that it hurts to take drugs or that life must be defended as long as possible and then, at some point, it runs out? These liberators are the true oppressors of a moral "wrong" (it would be to write in eight quotation marks). I claim the right to do a battle that is not for therapeutic aggression, to be banned; that does not want to impose anything on anyone, because the impositions are wrong; that is not religious; moral yes, instead: you could say, because the law and the State have their secularity and the parliaments must have their morality. This is invoked - rightly - on matters of criminal order and on the facts of corruption; why not invoke a morality of laws and conduct of legislators when it comes to life and death? The amendments we have tabled are therefore not many: look, I believe that my Group and myself have tabled about 155 amendments, which in such a debate do not seem to me to constitute a obstructive practice. If there are too many, we will reduce them; if 155 are too many, we will reduce them and we will vote for eighty, ninety or one hundred. However, I have been in Parliament for a long time, and I have sometimes witnessed discussions on less important laws than this one, in which thousands of amendments were tabled: they were being examined by day and by night in the parliamentary classrooms. Now, as soon as there are eighty amendments, it is said to put trust and prevent it from being examined. But what's the problem? Parliament speaks, votes and debates. It has always been a healthy democratic practice: this is our case, as you can see, it is not obstructionism, but it refers to a matter of merit and we will ask for it to be discussed. Should an ideological flag be waved? I do not know; then you will see that there will be few people who will avail themselves of these DAT and these procedures, if the law were passed. It has also been said in these days that there is legislation on civil rights. Go and see about another law that doesn't have anything to do with this, the law on civil unions, how many users have been. It seemed, when it was discussed, that outside there was an exterminated mass of Italians claiming it. Why is there never a verification of the uses of laws that are approved? It should be done. Go and see how many have made use of that law, and we will also see for this, if it will be approved, how many users will make these statements that then cannot be modified, if not with a camera, two witnesses and a doctor even in an emergency case, that can occur. The reasons for opposition are many and all of merit. We will explain them during the examination of the amendments, without any obstructionist intent but without making us shut up, because we do not accept that someone may have decided to euthanize democracy: that is not possible! [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] It is incompatible with democratic principles, not just constitutional principles, which come before the Constitution. The euthanasia of the debate cannot be done. I am therefore pleased that our Group has taken note of the prevalence of the reasons for the no, in accordance with the opinions of everyone, which exists regardless. We are opposed to the freedom of mandate when it serves to nourish transformationisms, but the freedom of mandate on these things has meaning and we cannot fail to respect it. However, the opposite orientation of Forza Italia is an approach of wisdom that we will propose in this debate in defense of deep reasons, of great morality, in support of life against all fierceness and against every drift that opens the way to euthanasia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Sacconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u22	Senator Gaetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u23	Madam President, today we are finally beginning the debate on this important measure that involves our being deep down. Before going into the substance of the measure, I would like to highlight a few moments of your journey in the Commission. It was incardinated on 2 May and was carefully evaluated with seventy hearings. A little more than 3,000 amendments were subsequently tabled. I remember that the 5 Star Movement did not table any amendments, precisely because it wanted this law to be discussed and approved. On 18 October, when the amendments began to be voted on, I realized that many had been written with the sole intent of obstruction: an identical part, followed by a variable part. I have therefore asked for a split vote. The experts are well aware that, by rejecting the first paragraph of the amendment, several hundred amendments would have been automatically rejected. At this point I must address you citizens: dear citizens, what happened highlights the small number of navigated senators, who have always despised the 5 Star Movement, but have committed a superficiality that leaves grounded. Interesting was their reaction, the disbelief of the proposers of those amendments - I would say that they have fallen from the pear - that no account will ever be able to tell. Such a thing had never happened in the Commission! This forced President De Biasi to return to the decisions of President Grasso, who gave an interesting answer, in my opinion Pilatesca: In order to follow this path, unanimity of consensus must be reached. It is obvious that those who prepare 3,000 photocopier amendments with a obstructive spirit will never agree to have them rejected in a moment. We enter the heart of the provision. I shall confine myself here to a few points which I consider to be important. There are no mysteries greater than those of life and death. Each of us, in the face of these mysteries, reacts in a different way, manifests different behaviors that, in my opinion, must be safeguarded all, each with its specificity. When I speak of this subject, I manifest a certain embarrassment, both as a citizen and as a doctor. Like I said many times, I'm a pathologist. I have lived twenty-nine years of my professional life as a necroscope doctor: I have performed thousands of autopsies and thousands of cancer diagnosis. I often spoke to people with severe suffering and each of them had different requests: who didn't want to know, who wanted to know everything and asked me questions that I didn't know how to answer, also because they were often out of the human reach. Many relatives who assisted their family members, sometimes with stories full of suffering, told me: Remember, Doctor, that death is not the worst of all evils. This phrase underlines how beautiful life is, how important and must be fully lived but, for many people, not at all costs. That is the importance of this bill, which, among other things, bears the signature of a Member of the 5 Star Movement, to underline that for us there are no taboos, that we do not vote against one party or another, but we vote for the citizens. A bill that puts at the centre the person, his expectations, his desires, his needs and communicates it to the doctor, with whom he shared a path, a dialogue, a clarification. Finally I find it written that the time of communication between doctor and patient constitutes time of treatment. A symphony for my ears. Even in this House I have repeatedly complained about the 12 minutes that the protocol assigns me for an aspirated needle. This step is revolutionary: in a business world where profit and cost of performance have distorted the relationship between doctor and patient, it is finally restored that empathy, sharing become therapy. Overcoming the fears of the sick person, explaining what can be done and what cannot or should not be done takes time and patience, but it is the beautiful part of my profession, which has been stolen from me. Yes, it was stolen from me, from protocols, guidelines, corporateization, profit, budget, performance of the National Plan outcomes. Yes, because I'm supposed to be an aseptic professional, telling what books say, artificial intelligence, big data, but do you know how important a look, a contact, a caress is? That's what you took away from the doctors, then you complain if a patient goes to a charlatan who invites him to eat garlic. He goes there because the charlatan listens to him, helps him overcome his fears, devotes time to him. Another important step: For the purposes of this law, artificial nutrition and artificial hydration are considered to be health treatments, as they are administered, on a medical prescription, nutrients through medical devices. We were talking about evidence-based medicine. Many audit experts in the Commission have pointed out that this step is science. That's right. Yet even here, in this debate, many return to absurd positions, against all logic. It really takes a lot of courage to support the unsustainable. They do not understand that saying otherwise not only they go against science, but they legitimize the charlatan, aligning themselves and comparing themselves with him. As I said before, important is the dialogue, the understanding with the patient (not with the client), so we agree together what to do, that is, we reach an understanding, in technical terms we talk about the consent of the patient. He is the subject who decides for himself, after he has learned all the elements that the healthcare professional has transmitted to him. He decides what he wants done and what he doesn't, so he arranges his choice and the doctor does. A great deal has been discussed in the Commission about the term provisions versus declarations. The first ones are binding on the professional, while the second ones are not and therefore are statements that could be overcome by contingent factors. It's not a semantic discussion, but it's a change of perspective. With "declarations" we understand how the last word belongs to the professional, while with "dispositions" the last word belongs to the patient who becomes the true holder of his choices. Personally, I would have liked a measure that would further expand individual freedom, leaving the person the freedom to decide his or her own life as in other areas. I would like to remind all of you that a hunger strike prisoner died in Cagliari on 5 July 2017, and it seems to me that none of the so-called champions of life did anything to support and dissuade him from his decision. I shall end my speech, Madam President, in the hope that the examination of this measure will be completed quickly and that it will be approved: it would be an important signal of civilisations that many citizens ask of us and do not deserve to wait much longer. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u24	Senator Aiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u25	Madam President, those who, like me and other colleagues, when they were engaged in the profession, have been sworn in, and have therefore strongly believed in the freedom of science and conscience and have considered, unlike those in this House who are trying to explain and want to make believe, the hydration and nutrition care indispensable for the person, are, despite him - like me at this moment - to live a truly serious and irreconcilable internal conflict with his own concept of life. Maybe someone will disagree, but we need to express our views here. I therefore believe that I interpret the point of view of what is my popular mandate in this House by deducing that this bill, as it is proposed, appears controversial, doubtful, questionable: a proposal that would really demand balance, serenity of mind and above all extreme lucidity in the assessments. We, as the People's Area, have appreciated President De Biasi's effort in the Commission, which has not only given us the opportunity to hold many hearings, but - and I would like to thank you for this - has made every effort to ensure that the measure is concluded rationally. Unfortunately, this was not possible, so she was forced to resign as rapporteur and the measure came to this House. However, I would once again like to welcome the goodness of the efforts that the Presidency has made in the Commission. I personally believe that we are dealing here with an exquisitely ideological aspect. Looking at my professional and human experience, I may be obsolete, stale - define me as you want - but I am really experiencing a bloody inner conflict. I have tried several times, even by absenting myself from the Commission, to assess this measure on the basis of my intuitive, professional, human, scientific and social skills, in the most rational way possible. Honestly, I can't. Out of any open-minded logic and closed to dialogue, however, I would like to stress that this proposal does not see me against tout court. But we would like to have the opportunity with the amending proposals to make a more realistic assessment of the measure. Of course, I repeat, there are aspects to be explored, which at the moment lead me to express a multifaceted "no" on different aspects, on different fronts. A first no is certainly addressed to the virtually definitive value of the DAT, which, as far as I am concerned, is an expression of a cultural presumption that considers it possible to measure reality a priori, just when it becomes more urgent, that is, in the phase of pain. Let me quote an essay that belongs to others, an iconic expression: it is claimed to legislate on the unknown or, better, on the mystery. A second no, on the other hand, is addressed to the specific anthropological conception that emerges from the proposal of the law, namely the idea - let me stress this - of a man, as it is written, broken by ties and responsibilities, isolated not only from the family and community dimension, but even - perhaps, above all - by the qualified company of the physician. Yeah, the doctor. I do not really know whether the whole system is completely forgotten or whether this debate is based on purely scientific aspects. I can't figure it out. Very often the patient manages to find the meaning of life, clouded by the drama of some events, through the conversation with his doctor. Isn't that right? This may take longer or shorter time, because the questions asked to the doctor require the ability to imagine the emotions that arise in front of the prospect of a serious disability. The doctor - and no one else - knows how to deal with a person who is imagining how he could live in a possible condition of total dependence on others, in a state of non-consciousness or minimal consciousness, where he could feel everything, without being able to communicate. Only the doctor knows that this man, while making choices in apparent total autonomy, in reality must elaborate a series of emotional conditionings that inevitably influence his freedom, pushing it towards solutions that at the moment would seem easier and more appealing. The subject in those moments is at a crossroads, where he must imagine what he would like to do under circumstances that inevitably appear hostile to him. It is a far from formal conversation between the patient and the doctor of his trust, a condition that exposes his soul, his values, his convictions, his affections and his feelings. For this reason we feel like saying "no" and another no we feel like saying it to the idea of being faced with a human being whose hope, the demand for a sense of truth, is, so to speak, discouraged or discouraged, which, especially in pain, makes the concept of human nature mysterious and often admirable. In our opinion, another problem that deserves further focus is one of the thorniest aspects of the measure, on which we have had the opportunity to listen to various interpretations so far. I am referring to the part relating to nutrition and artificial hydration. Article 1, paragraph 5, of the proposed law in question reads: For the purposes of this law, artificial nutrition and artificial hydration are considered as health treatments. Basically we start from the consideration that artificial nutrition and hydration are a real therapy and, as such, can be suspended: a real abuse, an unjustified act, despicable as far as we are concerned. This is the basis of the manuals of the medical profession and the health profession more generally, not only of the doctor, but also of the nurse and the social health worker. I refer to the incisive and precise distinction between two concepts that are often considered synonymous and that are not synonymous: therapy and treatment. Therapy is interpreted as a health treatment aimed at the healing of a sick person, i.e. suffering from a disease. That's not the cure. The cure - just read the basic manuals - is explained as a care, care and dedication to the person. From these important distinctions it follows that the therapy is related to the pathology, while the cure is related to the person, to the human being. Without illness there is no therapy, while everywhere there is person, there is cure. You see, basic care, such as body hygiene, oral cavity cleaning, elimination of secretions, artificial nutrition, periodic changes in posture are all actions - and we see who manages to deny us - that many times daily each of us exercises on himself for the care of his body. Now, I ask myself and ask you: to what logic does the statement answer that, when the aforementioned cure is practiced by other people, because the subject does not enjoy autonomy, becomes a therapy, indeed a therapeutic aggressiveness and that, as such, can be suspended? How do you do that? It is unacceptable to ignore or disregard the thought with which the National Committee of Bioethics has repeatedly expressed itself, which is directly concerned with the problem. The National Committee of Bioethics argues that artificial nutrition and hydration, as ordinary means of life support, cannot be considered therapies in the strict sense and are part of the care due to every sick person, especially if disabled. Water and food do not become medical therapy just because they are administered by artificial means. The suspension of nutrition and nutrition is evaluated not as a necessary interruption of a therapeutic aggressiveness, but rather as a particularly cruel form of abandonment of the patient. Such a treatment is a real omissive euthanasia, acceptable both ethically and legally to an active euthanasic intervention, unlawful in every respect. Hydration and nutrition in people in a persistent vegetative state are usually to be considered as a basic life support and, as such, cannot be interrupted. In addition, as regards artificial nutrition and hydration, the principle of appropriateness should apply: if nutrition and hydration appear appropriate in relation to the clinical state of the patient, they do not constitute aggressiveness and cannot be suspended. But there is someone who has to decide this. It is clear that a professional, if faced with a condition of malabsorption, rejection, non-assimilation, stasis of the circle due to cardiovascular deficiency, will be the first guarantor of the interruption, as an inappropriate and harmful garrison. It then becomes a duty to evaluate and verify, according to science and conscience, whether there are and no requirements for appropriateness and to arrange consistent and consequent actions. Therefore, it does not seem appropriate and consistent to determine all types of choices in an a priori way, without always and in any case evaluating the situation in which we find ourselves and without taking into account also the scientific assessments made, in the concrete case, by those who have responsibility for it. Madam President, I shall conclude. We believe that if the experience of everyday life were more important than ideological conditioning, it would be easy to see that there is no such thing as aggression. Beware, anyone who frequents a hospital with serious pathologies to be next to a relative or friend knows that there is no practice of multiplication of disproportionate care and not even of multiplication of care tout court. If anything, a dangerous opposite trend begins to manifest for us: with a certain frequency, treatments are denied because they are expensive. Madam President, unfortunately my time is up. I would have liked to have had the opportunity to address other issues on which perhaps we will still be discussing in the explanation of vote in this House. I would just add that we have, however, had a responsibility to table amendments and we hope that some will be adopted, so that this proposal, which is not rational today, will actually be rational. [[Applause from Senator Zuffada]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u26	Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u27	Madam President, I believe that only ignorance or squalid exploitation can justify the words echoed in this House and on multiple media, according to which this bill would find comfort in the words of the Supreme Pontiff. Ignorance and exploitation. Pope Bergoglio said nothing new than what Pius XII said in 1957 in a speech to the anesthetists or Paul VI in a letter to Cardinal Villot or Pope John Paul II in the encyclical "Evangelium Vitae". Nothing new; indeed, to see well I would invite those who tried this instrumentalization to verify whether many cases included in the bill that we are discussing do not fall within that omissiva euthanasia referred to in the encyclical "Evangelium Vitae" cited above. But that's it. I do not think there is a need to create an alibi behind the words of the supreme chair; I believe instead that as legislators we have to face this problem with the secularism proper to a secular state. I shall therefore address the speech as a citizen, as a layman, and mainly - what matters most - by those who, as I imagine many of you, have had the misfortune to live firsthand the human drama that is often accompanied by the matter that we go to regulate; a human drama so prevalent and important to make substantially subvalent the technical notations of a health and legal nature that each of us can carry out. I am not opposed to the regulation of end-of-life treatment, but I am opposed to many of the provisions contained in the draft law under consideration and mainly to the fact that, by reason of the parliamentary shuttles, a text is required to be armored. I am opposed to the fact that such important issues, of an ethical nature but mainly of a human nature, are being dealt with in this House without any debate or with a facade debate, knowing that reasons - excuse me, I am not a diplomatic person - all pre-elections require the adoption of the bill as it is at this time. I'm wondering about the informed consent. There is no doubt that the patient has the right, if he wishes, to receive a complete informed consent about his position. Should such informed consent be full even when there is no hope of life from it, or in this extreme case can it be mediated through the family? I don't know. I am unable to give an answer, because no response can be valid for any family that is attacked by tragedy. However, I am not convinced that such a tranchant rule can be crossed in all cases. Paragraph 5 of Article 1 states that the patient has the right to refuse diagnostic tests and any health treatment. I am well aware that everyone is free to commit suicide and to let himself die, but when that subject mixes his privateness with the public nature of the health structure that welcomes him, are we really certain that the refusal of health treatment can be considered constitutionally legitimate even when from that refusal comes a concrete danger of life before non-existent? I repeat: in the context of a hospitalization, where privateness disappears for the advertising of the structure. I don't know. But I believe that on this point, perhaps, it would have been necessary - and would have been necessary - to deepen, a debate that, in addition to the exquisitely medical problems, cannot fail to concern also the constitutional legal problems and also, mainly, the human problems. Senator Aiello said this first: Hydration and artificial nutrition are health treatments and, as such, can be interrupted. Look, though, that he doesn't legislate on a case. If this arrangement finds its origin in the tragedy of Eluana Englaro, if this is the origin, this is not a good law. The legislator is not interested in individual cases, but is interested in regulating the plurality of the episodes that occur in society. And it must be said clearly that, from a medical point of view, from a scientific point of view, the absence of hydration and nutrition does not involve, even in a state of sedation, suffering, since this law says that the doctor can operate to remove suffering. I don't know. I am not in a position to answer the question that I am asking, but I think that in this House, freely, we would have had the duty (and we in the opposition have the right) to deepen this point to the full, and then to arrive freely, after a wide and frank debate, at the solution that, if necessary, the majority would have decided to adopt. I am not a doctor - thank God - but I wonder what it means to say in Article 2, 'prognosis inauspicious in the short term'. How many times have we been faced with short-term inauspicious prognosis and the patient has continued to live for a long time. What do you mean, from a medical point of view, in the short term? What safety does your doctor have that your diagnosis or prognosis is a prognosis or a correct diagnosis? However, in view of this doubting of the claim, the doctor must (not be able to, but must,) refrain from any unreasonable obstinacy in the administration of care and from the use of unnecessary or disproportionate treatments. Basically, in the face of this prognosis, the doctor must, through his omission, establish the death of the patient. And I wonder, is there only one doctor in this country? And if the doctor of the hospital structure x, having prognosticated death in the short term, had to decide to stop treatment, would not begin the tour of hospitals waiting to find a doctor who, instead of making a short-term infausta prognosis, does it in the medium term and so is qualified to administer the treatments? And still I wonder why on such a delicate issue for the patient, but also for the family environment that surrounds him, those who do not have great economic abilities are forced to enter and suffer this hellish circle, while those who have economic abilities can quietly turn to a private clinic and continue to have those unnecessary or disproportionate cares, according to the opinion of the public doctor, but useful and proportionate for those who want at all costs to bark to life and for those family members who want to keep alive their relative or intend to have a serene conscience in the future of having done everything and not to have abandoned to themselves the father, husband or son? In Article 3, I also find the most incomprehensible question of the law in our examination. This article states that "The person who is underage or incapable is entitled to the enhancement of his or her understanding and decision-making skills." He then goes on to say that he must receive information about his health choices in accordance with his abilities. In other words, the doctor must inform the child of his or her state of health and must be full information because the last recorded in paragraph 1 states that this information is intended to enable the child to express his or her will. And the will can be expressed correctly if the information received is full information. However, to say nothing of the fact that probably within the broad category of minors it would have been necessary to make a differentiation (for example, sixteen to eighteen years; whereas at sixteen years you work and you can marry and fourteen to sixteen years, bearing in mind that at fourteen years you have been responsible), consequently, in this craving to inform at all costs, there would have been an obligation to differentiate; according to those that are the general principles of your legal system, minors according to the legal capacities that our legal system currently assigns them. But I ask you one question: do you find it logical and human that the doctor has an obligation to tell a child of six, seven or eight years old, no matter, that he has leukemia and that he will die two months from there? When that child has no ability to self-determine himself because, according to the second paragraph, those who decide on the care to be given to the child are the parents. How can you enter such a cold circuit, if you will, so Anglo-Saxon, that we must give this tragic communication to a minor without him having the ability to decide? In this way we are going to impose on the child a concept of death, regardless of its extreme variety, which is destined to change according to the passing of time and life, because the concept of death that is five years old is completely different from what one is fifty, sixty or seventy years old, because different is the resignation compared to it. Let's go do all this without building any. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I am in favour of early statements of treatment, but - for God's sake! - the rules write you well: at least this! Article 4, which could be written in so many ways, from my personal point of view was written in the worst possible way. In this paragraph we find in fact written: "Every adult (...), in anticipation of a possible future inability to self-determine and having acquired adequate medical information on the consequences of his choices..." Let me understand: if I had to make a DAT and manifest my will, with reference to a possible future cancer, would those statements also be worth in case of leukemia or any other type of disease, other than the one specifically provided for in the DAT? I wouldn't think so, because otherwise the words wouldn't make sense after acquiring adequate medical information about the consequences. So, basically, let's say that these DATs -- but at that point it wouldn't be necessary to acquire the appropriate information, unless you want anyone who formulates a DAT you have to first graduate in medicine -- are an open statement, which says that whatever illness should happen to the registrant, he doesn't want this and doesn't want this one. We must, however, ask ourselves what good this will is declared and here, perhaps, we must address the most complex issue, which is also the most demagogic one, which accompanies these issues. With respect to the quality of life or with respect to the dignity of life? In what terms and in what ways do we manage to modulate the quality of life with respect to life, what is the limit that we must indicate, identify, establish and suggest, if we want, within which the non-quality of life becomes prevalent? Is it quality of life not having a leg or not having two or not having the limbs? And there is the dignity of life in the presence of a difficulty, in the absence of the quality of life... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Palma. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). ...especially in the face of the fatal outcome, which often goes hand in hand with the decision not to receive medicine? In conclusion, Madam President, in paragraph 5 of Article 4 it is said that the doctor is obliged to disregard the DATs if they appear to be manifestly inconsistent or not corresponding to the current clinical condition of the patient. Finally, I would like to ask two questions: how can you imagine that there is a system within this provision and that there are no contradictions when you say that the doctor can disregard the early statements of treatment made by a patient who, according to Article 1, can refuse any medical treatment? What is the discretionary space for intervention of the doctor in this capacity of misapprehension? And again: but if clinical conditions, if medical studies, if the progress of medical science, can - as is logical - modify therapeutic interventions with regard to individual diseases, would it not have been more logical to say that DATs have a duration of two or three years and must be repeated every two or three years, eliminating so substantially the problem that inevitably arises with regard to the possibility for the doctor to unattain them? These are the concerns that I have with regard to this measure. And I am convinced that these will remain for the armor of the text and for the electoralist desire of the majority, now somewhat modified, to approve the text itself. One thing I regret: this text is what it is. It is a text based on certain health and legal knowledge. It is not, however, based on the most important thing that it should have faced, namely the world of humanity, the world of emotions, the world of remorse, the world of doubts, the world of family weaknesses that are generally accompanied by the human tragedy that comes from the death of a neighbour. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senators Giovanardi, Liuzzi and Sacconi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u28	Senator Davico is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking today about a measure which, unfortunately, I did not wish to deal with under certain conditions, at such a difficult and agitated time, and especially at a time when the legislature is essentially at an end. An issue like the one under consideration, inevitably, degenerates into an electoral and propaganda drift and it is not fair, because the law on the end of life deserves and deserves a more dignified location, it deserves much more: much more deepening, much more reflection, much more calmness and even more general and intense participation. It is, in fact, an ethical and social theme - as has been pointed out by other colleagues - legal, constitutional, cultural, family, personal, a theme that divides and also very controversial. I shall confine myself, also for this reason, to some secular considerations - let us call them so - cold, of common sense and impersonal, precisely because the debate would be and is much wider. Let us start with this text, a text which, with due respect for colleagues in the House but also with the necessary stigmatization, is forced, incomplete and ineminable. And above all, I think it's, and will be, unenforceable. It contains, already in the first indications, what in conscience I consider a huge vulnus, a destabilizing paradox, because it gives the "good life" - let's call it this - the legal character available, at the time when it is accompanied by the protection of the right to life and the right to health. Is this, ladies and gentlemen, the time, the way to rush to legislate on a principle such as that of the availability of human life? Can we thus break down, for pure and exquisite ideological and electoral speculation, a fundamental principle of our society? We are talking about a measure which radically changes our legal tradition and, in essence, deals with conscience, but which has immediate repercussions on health professionals, the national health system, the legal system and, more generally, on many other aspects. Today, out of absurdity - I am making an example of something quite different from the strictly health area - there is no release system that relieves the owner of a sports centre from the responsibility for accidents caused by the behaviour of the users of its activity, its structure. And this happens because, in our country, life has always been considered an inequitable and indispensable asset, of which no one can decide the fates a priori. It is even less acceptable for this to occur in situations of drama, loneliness, discouragement or depression in which the individual might be faced with the prospect of pain and illness. We cannot accept that the solidarity mechanisms that take place in a civil society are lacking precisely in the moment of greatest need. It is precisely in the face of this loneliness and weakness that our society must assume the responsibility to decide together, in the light of certain, current and verifiable clinical elements, entrusting to qualified subjects - as are medical teams and judges - the task of resolving both delicate and definitive issues. Many examples have been given by my colleagues and, therefore, I am leaving them out. Colleagues, I assure you that this is a completely secular and aseptic examination of the problem we are facing. In a few hours, at the end of an entire legislature, we intend to liquidate the introduction of a law that - as it is presented to us - by including with the term "disposition" the obligation to respect the will expressed by the patient, introduces the principle of euthanasia. In fact, vague and imprecise expressions in this text seem to represent the recognition of the right to suicide. The measure - I repeat - exposes the doctor to the obligation to comply with the will of a patient to commit suicide. By what rules? Protected by what laws? With what implications also of one's conscience? Who, even in routine cases for his profession, can defend the doctor from relatives who will eventually rely on the outcome of the medical treatment to enforce the provisions of his spouse? And how will the doctor, whose mission is to try everything for everything, according to his own knowledge, to cure the patient, to know reasonably quickly the early statements of treatment of the patient, of which often, especially in the emergency room, does not even know the generalities? Precisely with reference to the anticipated treatment provisions, it would be appropriate to give rise to an in-depth analysis that allows to evaluate all the different situations, pathologies, implications of the same and sometimes imponderable circumstances even for the most informed and knowledgeable subjects. How can a person decide his or her fate today in view of the thousands of diseases that he or she may become ill throughout his or her life? And again, colleagues, to whom could he entrust the role of trustee - and therefore, the supreme judge of his own life - in view of the countless variables involved in interpersonal relations, including family relationships? Paradoxically, would Julius Caesar, today, make the right choice to entrust his life to his son Brutus? And again, in hindsight, could Abel rely on his brother Cain to guard over time his choice of life or death? I know, ladies and gentlemen, it sounds like academic paradoxes, but how many of these situations do we encounter in everyday real life? Sometimes, in the drama of what we are saying, there are also extravagant situations. A few days ago, an agency leaked the news of a patient who, in the United States, arrived in the unconscious emergency room, had a tattoo that said, "Don't resuscitate." The medical team' s debate focused on the application of that message and not only on the treatment to be given at that specific and dramatic time. Therefore, if this measure were to be misguidedly approved, we would be faced with cases such as those mentioned and with huge, varied and unpredictable cases. Article 4 of the text provides that an adult, properly informed person, may express his/her will regarding the consent or refusal of health treatments, diagnostic investigations or therapeutic choices. What is the point of giving the expression "appropriately informed"? Today we can express ourselves on the basis of current scientific knowledge. However, we know very well that, fortunately, neither research nor science need permission from anyone to advance and identify new treatments, solutions and technologies. What today to an individual even if properly informed may appear definitive, incurable, unbearable or mortal, tomorrow can be overcome - and will be - by the evolution of medicine. HIV, ebola or myocardial infarction no longer tell us anything: they were considered soft without the possibility of healing, but today they are to be considered pathologies that, adequately cured - although with enormous difficulties, sometimes - still allow to conduct perfectly normal and absolutely dignified existences. Those who contracted the Ebola virus in 2014 would have had no doubt in expressing their rejection of health treatments, given the aggressiveness of the virus. Yet, just two years later, in 2016, all the outbreaks were eradicated. Do we need other examples, ladies and gentlemen, to convince us that it is impossible to determine the future in advance? Then there is the aspect of the trustee: who can certify the adequacy of a person to play this role? And how can we ensure that it remains so over the years, without falling into any conflict of interest? The methods of his appointment and, above all, of acquisition and registration at public offices are also to be revised. This information must be certified, kept in compliance with privacy and available in real time. Who of us, in conscience, can accept that a third party has such information for an indefinite and unlimited period? There are too many questions that this law does not answer. That is why, if the majority wishes to adopt this measure unwisely, in the next parliamentary term we will assume the responsibility of putting our hands back on it in order to ensure at least a more sensible balance and its more appropriate applicability. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI) and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u31	Madam President, to define the perimeter of this law, allow me to quote the words of a wise man, regardless of his political, ideological and religious convictions, according to which: The medicine has developed an increasing therapeutic capacity, which has allowed to defeat many diseases, to improve health and prolong the time of life. It has therefore played a very positive role. On the other hand, today it is also possible to prolong life in conditions that in the past could not even be imagined. This is why he advises this wise man to add wisdom to it. The law does just that: try to give us a supplement of wisdom. It states that a person cannot be merely cared for, but must remain as far as possible the protagonist of his life. Therefore the doctor should inform the patient and, if appropriate, his or her family members or a person of his or her trust. And the patient's assessment must count on health care and care. Secondly - and I quote that wise one - the doctor must refrain from the temptation to insist on treatments that produce powerful effects on the body, but sometimes do not benefit the whole good of the person. Have you seen them try to resurrect a person who had already left in various ways? This is unreasonable, as that wise man still says. At the same time - and this is no less important - the doctor has the duty to protect the dignity of the sick person - dear colleagues, other than to degrade the medical profession: this is to give him a humanitarian and human role - and therefore to alleviate his suffering, even if he refuses medical treatment; he must therefore guarantee the treatment of pain, palliative care and, if necessary, even continuous deep sedation. Some honourable senators say this would be euthanasia. Then I'll tell you what it is, even if you don't want to talk about it. I think you have a problem with death and those who have such a serious problem with it, in fact have it with life and do not love it sufficiently. And I add: a lung cancer patient suffocates trying to breathe. The continuous and deep sedation takes this gift away from him. In what is this euthanasia and not, instead, give back dignity to that life that is being extinguished, but that has been and is up to the last moment life? Artificial hydration and nutrition are considered by this provision, which - according to you - provides euthanasia, health treatments and, therefore, the patient can ask to stop them. Is this euthanasia? In 2005 I was in America and a lady of distant Italian origin had spent fifteen years tied to machines with cocktails of anticoagulants and antibiotics that prevented the heart from stopping beating, but the body and soul were no longer there. That lady's name was Terry Schiavo. Some Christian fanatics - as fanatic as are Islamic fundamentalisms and, among them, we occasionally escape the madman who kills the doctor who practiced abortion - going before that clinic in 2005 bringing water and bread, pretending - alive ignorance - that these were nutrition and hydration. No, it's a medical treatment that forces your heart to beat while the rest of your life is gone. It's a way to deny that person to shut down. It's a way to stop the family from mourning. The one under consideration is a law of civilization, perfectible like all laws, which gives a signal, the signal to the doctor to take care of more of the sick, to listen to him and to inform him. And it gives the signal to families not to desert the terrible moment of the passing, but to accompany the sick person by guaranteeing him also the best possible passage, the least painful, the most worthy, which respects the dignity of the person. And anyone who loves life understands that. I, on the other hand, believe that the idolatry of the body, which I hear in your words, dear senators of the right, is a way of hating life. You protect the body at all costs when you are not loved and when you do not love life. Take an example, for once, from that old wise man who knows who he is. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL Group and the Senators Casson eGaetti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u32	She's enlisted to speak Senator Puppato. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u33	Madam President, I would like to say that I give the floor - as my political group has decided - because the ultimate aim is to vote on the draft law. I do, however, want to say within one minute that this law offers a faculty. I've heard incredible things say. It seems that many have not read the text. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Just read it. PUPPATE (PD). It is a faculty, an opportunity; it is not an obligation. Secondly, there is also the faculty within the faculty of writing and having it written that - for example - it is nevertheless required that all the treatments available from the scientific point of view be made accessible to one's own person up to the limits of therapeutic aggression. It is a faculty that is read not only in one sense, but also in the opposite sense. The law is written - I say it to my colleague Palma - in a correct, profound and coherent way with respect to ethical principles, in such a way as to put all the opportunities in place, but at the same time also all the defenses of the human person and his cure, and not only that of the disease. I believe that from this point of view, Italy as a whole is taking a step forward. I would ask that the written text of my speech be submitted to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u34	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u35	Senator Sacconi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u36	Madam President, I find it regrettable that this second reading examination of the draft law on early statements of treatment is taking place on the basis of a priori oppositions, an ideological defence of the text, without a patient listening to the different positions in the past years. I say this because I cannot fail to remember the good times in which politics was most cultured; the great parties in a particular way used to dialogue intensely with each other and above all were oriented to the preservation of a shared floor of the Nation. The Christian Democracy and the Communist Party have always been careful not to divide our national community and even those who have been farthest from the faith have always respected the Christian roots of our nation and have inspired their political initiative with caution on sensitive issues, such as those of divorce and then abortion. In those years I was already a socialist militant; I entered Parliament in the years immediately following those reforms and even in parliamentary life I still felt the queues of that confrontation. I especially remember with pleasure the dialogue that accompanied the law on abortion, although later there was an intense referendary battle. As an anti-abortist, however, I have always appreciated that law and I have been able to defend it also in the institutional functions that I have held, in the conviction that it has not only produced positive effects from the point of view of the containment of abortion practices, but also in some way preserved principles proper to our community, starting from the favor for life, which is found in Article 1 of the same law. The law, apparently in contradiction with the value of life - and not only apparently, but in some respects also substantially - nevertheless moves, in its Article 1, from a principle of declared favor for life, consistent with Article 2 of our Constitutional Charter, which explicitly draws that favor. Those who have been lucky enough to live the first Republic cannot, especially in these hours, not feel nostalgia for that time. They cannot fail to feel the difference between the present confrontation and the dialogue between all the great political forces. Although I belong to a lesser force than the two main ones, which then worked to accelerate some changes even in the costume, I cannot fail to consider that dialogue much more oriented to preserve a climate of sharing within our country. Today, however, it seems that a law the more divisive it is, the more desired it is. It seems that we are looking for the reasons for the laceration of the principles that were once common to us and it seems that it is supposed to be easier to agree on the very basis of tearing solutions. And so it was in the case of civil unions, a subject that could easily be addressed by a law that recognized all the stable cohabitations and had somehow codified and protected them in their essential needs. Instead, an attempt has been made to organize a similar marriage oriented to the hateful form of acquired procreation that goes under the definition of a rented uterus. Today, in the case of the Act on Advanced Declarations of Treatment, an omissive euthanasia is actually to be pursued. We must question whether a law makes sense in the matter of the boundary between life and death; whether we can reasonably be able to rigidly codify the ways in which the conclusion of the life cycle is organized through an advertising regulation. I believe that it would have been better no law or a soft law, as is often invoked for many subjects, namely a gentle regulation, useful to guide in this case the necessary cooperation between doctor, sick and family; that cooperation that is produced every day, that has never encountered particular difficulties such as to require regulation; that cooperation that is inspired above all by principles of humanity, of appropriateness from the point of view of the doctor's behavior, of sweet accompaniment to death without therapeutic aggressiveness. This law has nothing to do with therapy. Nothing at all, and nothing at all, about the therapeutic ferocity. In nothing and nothing about the decision, if the person lives a condition of proximity to death and asks to avoid pain, to be assisted in the passage. This law above all prepares statements that, at the moment when they are anticipated, do not have those characteristics of actuality and specificity that are inexorably consubstantial to the evaluation of the concrete condition in which a person finds himself and for which he can claim to determine the ways in which to be assisted. This law is oriented - as I said - to omissive euthanasia, because it is concerned above all to allow in advance, in the face of the fear of a prolonged state of serious disability, to die even through the deprivation of hydration and nutrition. Regarding how controversial the issues that this law raises, it is enough to refer to the motion of a few years ago, of 2009, presented by the Group of the Democratic Party and signed by Senator Zanda himself, where, with regard to the criteria that should inspire a law on the advance declaration of health treatment, it explicitly says: "the prediction that hydration and nutrition, indicated in the various forms in which science and technology can provide them to the patient, as physiologically aimed at life support, are not assimilated to therapeutic aggression and are always guaranteed to the patient until the end of life." This is the text of the motion of 2009, presented by Senators Finocchiaro and Zanda, today contradicted by the law we are talking about, in which instead it is claimed that artificial nutrition and hydration constitute not cure, but therapies. One might wonder what happened in the Democratic Party from 2009 to today to change its position on hydration and nutrition. If I consider the organizational arrangements of the Democratic Party, I can only see how, compared to then, the influence of Catholics in the Democratic Party has grown and how the Democratic Party has expressed a President of the Catholic Republic, three Presidents of the Catholic-inspired Council and the National Secretary of the Catholic-inspired Party. Coinciding with this influence of politicians who claim to be Catholics and who make their faith an element of identity and a reason for their public commitment, I find instead how some positions have changed in the more nihilistic sense. This cannot but surprise a secular observer - such as I am - who nevertheless considers, in the name of adult secularism, principles that are natural and rules that should be derived from them. The measure - as Mr Palma has already said - is badly written and will, above all, give rise to a strong dereliction of a doctor who is already frequently charged with civil liability and other disputes which, on one hand, exalt his degree of responsibility in the courts but, on the other hand, reduce his responsibility in the professional sphere. I am thinking of the case of a doctor who is in the presence of a head trauma: he will have to check immediately whether that person has issued an advance declaration and will not be an easy operation, because there is no unitary register that collects such statements and, above all, certifys its truthfulness. There is no comparison between the bureaucratic complexity that accompanies the transfer of an old used motorbike and the verification of statements of extraordinary importance such as those we are dealing with. In any case, that doctor, who usually is led to attempt the resuscitation of a person who is in condition of skull-brain trauma, will have to stop, thus giving up those recurring positive outcomes that are determined by the activity of resuscitation. The doctor doesn't have the last word. The provision that allows the doctor to depart from that declaration of treatment is written in such a way that I challenge anyone to be able to operate according to science and conscience, according to his own code of ethics and the oath of Hippocrates. 11:29 a.m. (Sacconi followed). The provisions on minors and inability are very uncertain, which can lead to a Charlie Gard case in our country as well. The issue of minors and incompetent people calls for even more reflections and doubts, precisely because other people decide for them, and this happens even if we refer to information that is proportionate to the ability to understand the child or the poor, terms that are obviously difficult to apply in reality. In essence, I believe that this measure is really dangerous on the one hand because it is divisive of national cohesion, of a nation - as I said yesterday - already strongly disintegrated, and on the other hand because it will weaken even more the vitality of our national community. There is, moreover, a link between the cultural vitality of a nation and its own economic and social vitality. The profound damage to the principle of favor for life, incompatible with the favor for death that is codified here, cannot fail to affect even our ability to walk together. I hope that the electoral debate on these issues will be very clear. I joined Energie PER l'Italia, the movement founded by Stefano Parisi, which defines itself as lay and Christian, liberal and popular, which, precisely, takes on a Christian inspiration, in that it wants to be conservative of the principles of tradition and reformist in the ways by which to make them effective in the changing world, in the belief that there can be a broad political area that proposes in this electoral confrontation the defense of these principles, which I consider non-negotiable. I hope above all that, in the face of the weakness of much of the Catholic world and in the face of the propensity to trade these principles by many Christians, a secular world will grow, even of non-believers, which wants to commit itself precisely to starting from the person, from the man, from those originalities of the person himself that no law can compress. I believe that we will have a future as a nation only if we can recognize the ancient heart of these principles, only if we can nourish this ancient heart and not, instead, separate it, entering a dimension that can only be that of decline. [[Applause from Senators Bianconi and Giovanardi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u37	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u38	Mr President, once again there is an extremely sensitive and important subject for the Senate Assembly, such as that relating to the so-called biological will or, better to say, to the early provisions for treatment. Finally, I would add that, with a great social and political battle, even outside this House, and following the direction of so many associations and citizens outside the Parliament, we have come to the timetable, beginning to debate and - hopefully - finally to vote on a final text on this subject. It was years - for my personal memory, since the 15th legislature, so more than ten years ago - that we were debating and clashing on this issue. In the last ten years Italy has changed and, turning around the peninsula to discuss such issues, in assemblies, conferences and debates, we have realized how the solicitation of the people, the popular solicitation for a necessary law on this topic is increasingly strong. On the other hand, the parliamentary climate has changed very little, especially on the other side of the House, because there are still deep pockets of religious obscurantism and bands of intellectual obnubulation that have so far not allowed a serious and in-depth discussion on this issue. Now we have a positive and good text before the House. It is not wrong, as someone has said; it is written very clearly for those who want to read it and for those who want to interpret it and apply it. Of course, a perfect law does not exist at all, but this is an extremely clear and significant passage and then, in the short time I have to deal with this issue, I would like to explain for flash the points that I think are fundamental. I would like to start with the summary examination of Article 1, which indicates to the interpreters of the law, to the operators, according to which perspective and direction to be addressed. It is significant that the reference at first instance is to respect Articles 2, 13 and 32 of the Constitution. Article 2 deals with the inviolable rights of man, both as individuals and in social formations; Article 13 deals with personal freedom, which is classified as inviolable; in particular Article 32 deals with the right to health, both as a right of the individual and as an interest of the community. Significantly, in the last part of Article 32 there is a constitutional rule that does not exist for any other kind of right, although defined as inviolable, that is, the principle is that the law cannot in any case violate the limits imposed by respect for the human person. This must be the lighthouse for the interpreter, for the judiciary, for the health staff, for those who will have the opportunity to intervene. The human person is put at the centre and cannot be touched and limited even by the law of the State. So let this very important initial hat come, because it makes a clear reference to the right to life, to health, to dignity, to self-determination of the person, reaffirming yes principles of Italian constitutional rank, but also the fundamental principles of Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which in turn reaffirmed the principles of the Treaty of Oviedo of 1997. But what are the main, clear and significant hinges of this bill? First of all, we remember that already in Article 1 an explicit, very clear reference is made to informed consent, to the right of every person to know and to be informed in a complete, up-to-date and understandable way. This is not a obvious step, because in the years of the recent past in which we addressed this issue there were those who fought and even stood up against this possibility of knowledge and information. Getting to say in this bill that information is basically an obligation for the doctor, for the health structure that must provide for the constant and permanent updating of the patient and that all the information must result from the medical record, is a step that perhaps someone takes for granted, but that at the beginning of this battle even parliamentary was not taken for granted. Just as it is essential that the consent and refusal of the patient, even if partial, should be guaranteed and recorded accurately and in detail of the clinical record. In addition, compared to the past we have significantly changed and exceeded the diatribes that concerned the designation of this right, of this faculty. In the past we were talking about directives rather than declarations, while in the text we are talking about provisions and it is not a coincidence, because it has an extremely clear political, social and even legal significance. The term "provisions" means that it is the person who disposes, who decides precisely in accordance with the constitutional principles that I have mentioned before. Article 4 speaks of a person of age who is capable of understanding and wanting that, through these provisions, he can express his will in the matter of health treatment, as well as with consent, refusal and so on. What does that mean? It means that with these provisions a legal bond is created for the doctor and for the health structure that absolutely cannot be violated, except in the very limited case, which provides for the law, in which there is a progress of the science and the technique not known at the time of the written provision. This legal constraint also helps to make sure that another problem that has been mentioned again this morning on the other side of the House, namely the problem of medical staff and doctors in particular, is overcome. It is clearly written in the law that doctors and staff are required to respect the will expressed by the patient and, as a guarantee also of doctors and medical staff, it is written that they are exempt from civil or criminal liability when they comply with these provisions. And I must say that this overcomes all the controversy and the diatribes, I must say instrumental, made in the past. Again in this article 1, in the final part, we recall a fundamental principle that refers, more than to the person of the individual doctor or health care staff, to health facilities, that is to say to public or private structures that must ensure in their own organization the full and correct implementation of the principles. We do not want, in fact, that, as unfortunately happened in other situations, for example in the field of abortion, there are structures or partialities in the health sector which, in fact, oppose the implementation of this fundamental right of women, which is not recognized in the facts even if affirmed in law and law. Here the text of the law is very clear: public health structures must absolutely ensure that this situation is respected. Then there are situations, which I remember quickly, that have been overcome compared to the past, in particular, what was considered a critical point, namely health treatments and the need to specify what health treatment means. I would say that a great step forward has been taken in the text of the law and, although perhaps, for those who wanted to better interpret this right of the person, it was not necessary, the norm contributes and gives a helping hand to the interpreters and operators. In fact, for the purposes of this law, artificial nutrition and artificial hydration are considered health treatments. This surpasses infinite diatribes that we have lived in past legislation, because the norm is very clear, respects the fundamental constitutional principles and moves, above all, according to what are the indications of the person and the patient. Another point that is overcome in a very clear way (and therefore there is absolutely no fog or grey area of the right) is that relating to the contrasts that may exist between the disposition of the person, the disposition of the patient, and what may be the doctor, the health care professional or the person who, at some point, can receive this indication to express the will, in the event of an inability to understand and want. The rule is very clear because, both in Article 3 and in Article 5, it makes it clear that, in the event of disputes, for example, between the legal representative of the disabled person and the family member or with the staff, the judge is called upon to protect that, in the forms provided for by the rules of law, he will act quickly to decide what to do and what interpretation to give to the person's clear disposition. I shall conclude because the time available to me is over. We come, with this bill, to a significant leap in our society: this bill represents a sign of civilization. We can no longer support around the country the many Englaro cases, the many Welby cases, which now occur in all the regions and in all the provinces of Italy. It is a remarkable step of civilization and a huge improvement that we have made, especially because the institutions demonstrate, with this law, that they want to respect the person, that they want to respect the man and the woman and their physiopsychic integrity. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Mixed.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u39	We greet students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo (including Pignataro Camigliano) of Pignataro Maggiore, in the province of Caserta, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u40	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not hide that I have been waiting for this debate for months. Today we have finally found the serenity, the desire and the ambition to confront ourselves with an argument that, let's face it, in a very marginal way concerns politics, but rather the ethics and the moral design of each of us. I am happy and satisfied, because in a society in constant ferment, where the ethical spheres of the common good and civil rights are touched, there was still no reflection in this regard. It's time. The bill on biotestation arrives in the Chamber after pretentious and continuous referrals, obstacles created specifically to escape from any responsibility. The thing that has disappointed me most is that so far he had chosen to ignore; yes, to ignore the real situations, serious and delicate, such as those subject of the law, in order not to decide. In essence, we have deliberately chosen to compress the freedom of individuals in the eventual management of their unbearable pain. So I think that the right attitude to address this issue must be a secular approach, leaving aside, at least for the time being, the personal beliefs of any faith. We are legislators and not bearers of dogmatic interests and approaches. This is an important clarification because, while ethics refers to anthropological values, the secular approach, in addition to being in itself a value, is connected to the concept of dignity, to the right of self-realization and to the fulfilment of actions to realize one's own plan of life. Furthermore, we cannot underestimate the wide-ranging public debates on this issue. The company is asking us to provide you with tools, opportunities and advice, but above all it is asking us to put you in a position to choose. For these reasons, I consider the proposed text to be a balanced structure, a set of just provisions that have well combined the psychological and social aspects that result from it. It certainly could have been improved in some respects, but I believe that today, in these days, we have to vote on this text. The biological will is essentially structured into two parts, one relating to accepted health treatments and the other to the appointment of the representative or so-called trustee. The fundamental concept, however, is the will of the sick, it is he who must have the last word about his own care. We must all understand that a patient is not just a body or a disease, but a person made up of relationships and beliefs in his life. I do not want to waste any more time in this House and I conclude, Mr President, by calling for a rapid decision, with freedom of conscience, bearing in mind that life, difficulties and desires belong to everyone, including terminal patients. [[Applause from Senators Bell and Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u42	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u43	Mr President, life is sacred. Sacred means untouchable and inviolable. The verb root of the Sanskrit is "sak", encircled by the divinity. Allow me to replace the term divinity with dignity and to make a reflection on the subject, so vital. Now I wonder if and what we sapiens do for men and women in order to guarantee the sacredness of their lives throughout existence, for those who suffer and for those who care. I wonder if this sacredness does not fail long before illness and suffering reach untenable levels, asking, in our liberal society, for the freedom to put an end to one's physical presence in this reality. I wonder if it is possible for us to arrive at such situations where the desire to die is so strong and if even this is not, in some cases, only the result of abandonment and social desolation. I wonder if the same sacredness and dignity are equally protected, without discrimination whatsoever. I do not want to mention recent cases of assisted suicide for desperation and loss of dignity or endless medical assistance and human support, guaranteed by large economic resources and social presence. I also wonder whether the sacredness and dignity of the life of those who care, caregivers, are respected and whether even their biological will is, in the face of so much effort, a real conscious will, for their loved one or for them. How many of them would like to cease to live, how many of them can no longer do it! I wonder if they too, as people whose freedom is violated, are not or will not be able to discern and choose consciously, either for themselves or for the loved one. I wonder if man's conscience and reason are already compromised when he chooses to make the request and whether it is taken consciously and rationally. I wonder if it is really possible that such a choice is ever conscious and if the human being possesses, at that moment and subsequently, true personal freedom, the true ability to discern between continuing and ending: let us not confuse freedom with liberation. I wonder what awareness is in a sick person and what is the limit between awareness and unawareness. Can the right of a social state sanction it? The understanding doctrines, i.e. religions, have been subjected to and always have an answer, but obviously this response, in this House, can only serve dialogue and reflection, certainly not be imposed on a state and a secular people, nor can an opposite answer be imposed on the individual, because the sacredness of his own life lies precisely in the untouchability. "Intouchability" means "do not touch" something, but this something belongs to the organism itself and not to organisms outside the self. Therefore, if we get rid of a doctrinal theist response, although shared by many, it is only in itself and by itself that life can be completed, without its sacredness and dignity being muddled and broken. For historians, a subversive carpenter, wanderer and philosopher, 2,000 years ago he was executed, for Christian theologians instead it was God, who planned the highest sacrificial gesture, to give his human life for others. Can we doubt God's awareness? No, by definition. But if we accept the awareness of God as the only one possible, we can certainly doubt the awareness of man and even more of the awareness of the sick, the suffering person and the person who cares for him. The right to self-determination cannot be excluded from the free choice of the person, whether conscious or not, but the awareness of death does not exist, it is not possible and this is the dilemma. There is an awareness of pain and anguish and this could be enough for those who are autonomous in action and in their choices, but never, absolutely, for those who are not. Therefore, for the psychic or deeply disabled person, who is unable to discern and act freely, no delegation to others is legitimate. It would result in the violation of Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, discriminating against the negative freedom of the person on the handicap or asymptotically on the genetic characteristics. Only if the recognition of the will remains indelegable is it possible to stay away from the fictitious interests of a society that arrogates the right to decide a person's life. No one can be a referee of the life of others, no one can define non-people. It has already happened with totalitarianism and must never happen again: there is the ability to choose, but for themselves, not for others. "Untouchable" means not touching, but whoever takes his life does not touch, leaves, leaves only what he possesses. The touch presupposes extraneousness, is external and therefore must not be granted, never. Here is the sense of the sacred, but here is also the sense of having oneself when you no longer feel anything sacred, the sense of not violating sacredness when the touch is existential aggressiveness. Walter Benjamin used to say, as the missing Rodotà reminds us: In fact, man does not coincide in any way with the naked life (...) or with any other of his states or properties, or even with the uniqueness of his physical person. Of life it decides life itself and only who owns it and the possession of his own life is of the same man, above all principles. Habeas corpus is guaranteed as a right to health by Article 32 of our Constitution. Our Constitutional Court, in reference to Articles 2, 13 and 32 of the Constitution, organically settled, in judgment No. 438 of 2008, the explicit reference to self-determination as the fundamental right of the person, in relation to informed consent. Man is sovereign of himself and no external will can take the place of that of the person concerned, let alone in the case of a weak and fragile or unconscious figure. If sovereignty is not exercisable by itself, no one should have the right to exercise it for the other. It is precisely for this reason that the choice cannot be delegated to anyone except in the passive respect of the will not to act and not to suffer. This is true from the oath of Hippocrates, through the Nuremberg Code, where the voluntary consent of the human subject is absolutely necessary. Better a thousand times the madman who decides to end it with himself, with his own being, than the sane who decides for the crazy, canceling the being. Because we called madness to secure society, not the madman, as Foucault said. Self-determination requires maximum respect and maximum consideration in this case, if and only if exercisable. There's no plan B. So I say yes to the self-determination of the person, if the conditions of freedom exist and if these are always verifiable, but I say no to the determination of others, I say no to the abortion "extrauterino" a posteriori and to the eugenic selection, a priori and a posteriori. As the recently deceased Baumann reminds us, life is a work of art. And, I add, art is not jurisprudence, it is not biology, medicine or even less statistics. Life is sacred, but perhaps we have forgotten its most important declination: love. Do your campaign, but get your hands off the kids and hands off the disabled! [[Applause from the Misto-MovX Group and the senators Giovanardi and Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u44	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u45	Mr President, this draft law arrives in this Chamber with a fundamental error: the subject has been divided into opposing, lay-Catholic groups. But this division of understanding is completely wrong and my Group, Forza Italia, already in the Commission had demonstrated all the willingness to carry out a law that could be done, it had to be improved in order to deliver to the country a text to guarantee people and not an ideological flag. At the request of the President, in order to speed up the process and show that there was absolutely no will for obstruction but for cooperation, we have reduced the number of hearings of experts we had asked for, we have reduced the number of speeches in general discussion in the Commission for colleagues who wanted to express their thoughts on such a sensitive subject, we have reduced the number of amendments and we have shown this will again today, in reducing the number of amendments tabled further. However, we found ourselves in front of a wall, even yesterday, even today. The same wall that will probably get a law passed badly, with serious gaps, ambiguous, of which the majority are aware, perfectly aware. But the password is: as long as it's done, then we'll improve it. We all know that this will not be the case and we have experienced it in these five years of sloppy laws, which are badly done and certainly not improved, or perhaps not improved. We know that the next government will have to deal with issues that are much more important to citizens: finding resources for the economy, work, security, immigration, health, people in difficulty. The budget law has shown, for example, that, compared to the DEF in September 2009, the health-to-GDP ratio falls from 6.6 to 6.3 percent by 2020 and, according to the World Health Organisation's estimates, certainly a country that keeps the health-to-GDP ratio thick below 6.5 percent, is a country that cuts services, even for those in need of assistance. Perhaps the next Government will have to monitor how LEAs are applied in the national territory and above all, which has been missing for years, despite the fact that Law No. 38 of 2010 asked Parliament for an annual report on palliative care, we do not know how this law is applied in Italy. If the strange majority who will assume the responsibility of handing over to the country a law badly done had a minimum of openness, it would have sufficed to approve a single amendment and to change the term "dispositions" with the word "declarations": probably the measure would have been approved unanimously in the Chamber and a short passage to the Chamber of Deputies would have handed over a good and awaited law before the end of the legislature. But it was said, just now, by Senator Casson, that this law is a political fact, so the will to change it will not be there: we are in an electoral climate. Therefore, we act consciously, while going against principles laid at the foundation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and of our Constitution, which are delimited in the intangible sphere of life and human dignity. The purpose of these rules is, appropriately, to protect the weakest person. In a civil society, however, those who put an end to life must ask themselves whether everything possible has been done to soothe the pain, support the difficulties of people and thus avoid leading them to despair that calls for death. The task of a civil society is to guarantee and protect the lives of citizens, by providing them with all the means available for better healing and palliative therapies, to guarantee a dignified existence to the last and not to have the heartbreaking cases, such as that of the disabled Italian who ended his life in a death clinic in Switzerland because the Italian State did not take charge according to its human and constitutional rights. With regard to guarantees and laws, we do not understand very well how the measure under consideration can be married to articles 575 (voluntary murder), 579 (murder of the consentor) and 580 (incitement or aid to suicide) of the penal code. This is a hypocritical law, with a euthanasic content, without having the courage to be so, but allowing us to think of choosing a horrible death, of hunger and above all of sects, exactly as a plant that we did not give water because we forgot about it. It is a law that instead of enhancing the trust between doctor and patient (especially at a time of distrust in our National Health System due to the economic difficulties that, for example, according to the reports just delivered, prevent about 34 percent of Italian citizens aged between thirty and fifty years of access to care for lack of money), makes the doctor believe that he is an enemy from which to defend himself. Moreover, to quote Article 13 of the Constitution, which protects the inviolability of the freedom of persons, practically puts the doctor in a position to be considered a kidnapper who is attentive to freedom. Personally, as a doctor, I don't think there was a need for a law. In my professional life I went to intensive care departments, as perhaps those who think they should have done to defend self-determination from therapeutic aggression. There is no therapeutic bitterness and the doctor who says to bring home the patient performs an act of mercy to gently accompany the sick person to his end of life, sedding him. Can a State intervene on these matters? I set the example of prematures. In the neonatal intensive care wards there is a code, certainly unwritten, according to which prematures under a certain weight must presumably be left and those above cured. Let's say that the weight is 800 grams and that there is a premature 790 grams with vital parameters that express his will to live and a premature 900 grams that already gives clear signs of vegetative state. If we were to make a law, what would the doctor do? Abandon what clearly shows signs of great vitality and keep alive one that already has signs of serious disability? It is not possible to think of eliminating the role of the doctor, but in this law he becomes simply a testamentary executor, constantly in need of the lawyer, an increasingly less credible figure. Many are the critical points of this measure and the majority know it: the House also had members of its Group withdraw, the PD, improved amendments, that would remove that flag of pre-election freedom to boast of, while they would deliver an important and shared text. The fundamental point is that there is no register. This law is at zero cost, but good laws cannot be done at zero cost: a national register of its provisions would have cost, so it does not exist. What happens, because there's no record? What will a doctor do when he may be in an emergency room? When he has to intubate a patient or must use a defibrillator he will need more the lawyer than the nurse, because if he intervenes to save the life of the person and she will have been saved in excellent condition, she will say that it was a miracle and to have found an angel on her way, if instead from that medical intervention he will have a sequel, she will be able to denounce the doctor because he had not complied with his dispositions, if the doctor is still, as perhaps unfortunately does, since he does not feel protected in the exercise of the profession, the family of the person in question will be able to denounce him for help omission. I therefore wonder, in conscience, what a doctor can do. Another important point: there is no temporality in the provisions. Yet there is temporality in every important document that identifies us, such as the driver's license, identity card or passport. We know that the steps, in the medical and scientific field, are increasingly rapid: diseases that were once fatal are now treatable, with an absolutely normal quality of life (see, for example, an AIDS patient fifteen years ago or at present: today, with antiretroviral therapy, he has the same life chances as an uninfected person). Let's also think about the layout mode: just a video on a mobile phone with friends who become witnesses? And if that is enough, if a video on your mobile is accepted, then the important contradiction is with the manner of informed consent, so before the act of the famous dispositions the doctor must give all the information in an exhaustive interview. We do not talk about article 1, paragraph 5, as regards nutrition and hydration: food and water are equal to medical treatments, because they are carried out through devices. I will not go into the discourse that even the child, until he can feed, or a person who has a non-mortal pathology and who may not temporarily feed on his own, need someone. But isn't the needle for permanent sedation also a medical device? Then the patient should know that by rejecting treatments such as nutrition and hydration, he should also refuse sedation, since it is a medical act. We do not talk about article 3, paragraph 1: the discipline for minors and the incompetent is practically the realization of an euthanasia of non consenting. We have all followed the case of little Charlie in the UK: if there is no unity between the choices of the doctor and the family decide the judge. And the withdrawal of consent? If in the meantime the person has become incapable, the trustee decides. We know how many cases Parkinson's, Alzheimer's or even other types of pathologies a person is unable to revoke. We also know the family and social cost of these people: couldn't you take advantage of some of them? Is this how we protect the weakest and most suffering? By killing them? Recent studies show that 15 percent of those who wanted to give early treatment arrangements change their mind from three months to two years. But if anything happens in the meantime, what happens? In accordance with Article 2 (2), informed consent becomes the basis of the relationship between doctor and patient. It was originally called a founding act. In all this we forget the oath that a doctor takes before starting to practice his profession. The code of ethics presents many articles (Article 3, Article 4, Article 13 and Article 16) for which the activity of the doctor is directed to the whole good of the person, to the safeguarding of his/her psychophysical integrity, as well as to the cure and relief of his/her sufferings. This law does not provide for conscientious objection - another injury to the person's constitutional rights - nor to the doctor, nor to a public or private health structure. In this law there is a great formal confusion. A social system prevails in this law where a strong and healthy man is successful. Should illness or self-determination be the real point when it comes to the end of life? Self-determined, then, I can sell a kidney - but that law doesn't allow it - and some money would raise it. More thought should be given to the human dignity that a State must defend. Where the quality of life culturally takes over its intangibility, as you want to do with this law, perhaps the reasons for living become less and less day after day. I would like to make one appeal: together we are voting on targeted and improved technical amendments and we are trying to deliver a good law. This law is wrong. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u46	Senator Bianconi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u47	Mr President, such a complex and delicate law would have needed not to be discussed and voted in this House at the end of the parliamentary term. I will try in the short time that I am allowed to outline some extremely critical passages. In the past legislatures of early statements of treatment it has been largely dealt with in the Commissions and also in the House, without arriving, fortunately, at a text. In retrospect, however, I recognize that these texts contained at least a concrete embankment against all that could be euthanasia and aid to suicide. In the 16th legislature, the proposals relating to these statements led to the prohibition of therapeutic harassment, as well as the prohibition of euthanasia and suicide aid, as the first article. In the 17th century we even took a step backwards, because these prohibitions are not explicitly referred to. A few months ago, an important U.S. medical journal that for medical practitioners is a bit the Bible, the New England Journal of Medicine, asked us to think carefully about the early statements of treatment. The Americans have rolled over on the oblique plans and are far ahead, unfortunately, of us, but after a few years of this practice, they have stopped and started to reflect on these statements. The title is emblematic: "Delegate early processing directives." Facilitate the planning of treatment. The DAT, in fact, creates problems for the bureaucratic aspect, for the grey areas that remain and why doctors will have to have lawyers beside them instead of nurses. Already the title of this law is a step back from a debate that in these classrooms had already been done and that I thought consolidated. We were talking, then, about early statements of treatment, that is, the person declared his will by talking to the doctor, trying to understand what he could or could not support at his time of end of life. Today we are talking about provisions and the word already places us in a testamentary perspective, that is, we have, and therefore we want to achieve, that our provisions are not simply kept in mind, but considered mandatory when we are no longer able to understand and want. The other aspect, which I understand very well, is that of hydration and nutrition, a sort of totem for a left that has changed its position on this subject. Senator Sacconi mentioned this earlier: when we were in this House at the tragic and dramatic moments of the Englaro case, it was clear for the very large part of this House that in that situation the firm point, fixed by a motion voted in this House, was that hydration and nutrition were not cures, but vital support. I understand that you can change your mind, but you can't change your mind about science as it is. I, too, would like to know why colleagues in the Democratic Party, who then signed that motion, changed their minds. This totem is also placed as an embankment to the therapeutic bitterness. On this too we must be quite clear: doctors are not torturers, but professionals who try to help the patient and accompany him in the end of life, so much so that in the imminence of death no one gets fierce by entering food inside the human body or causing further suffering. On the other hand, doctors have a code of ethics - I do not speak so much of the oath of Hippocrates - so they must absolutely refrain from any euthanasic practice and any practice of therapeutic aggression. I'd like someone to bring me here a doctor who has as a cultural base the therapeutic abhorrence. I'd like to confront a medical class like that. This law also involves some particular passages. Article 1 refers to Articles 2 and 32 of our Constitution, but it also refers to Article 13 and this is the first thing that makes me say that the American newspaper was right, namely that doctors must have not the nurse next door, but certainly a lawyer. As you know, Article 13 of the Constitution lays down the conditions for the restriction of personal freedom by the public security authority and the judicial authority. It seems to me therefore a warning to the doctor: if you do not execute the DAT elaborated months to the letter, years before, you could be considered a violent, a subject that limits the other freedom, someone from whom the patient must defend himself, more than someone to trust and to rely on for treatment. In this way the therapeutic alliance between doctor and patient skips and there is certainly a narrowing of the freedom of the doctor who must always operate according to science and conscience. Now, I don't even want to say respect to the trustee, but you imagine: if, at the time the doctor has to operate, the person hasn't appointed the trustee, or if this trustee is on vacation at that time, or has he forgotten to be the trustee of this person, how will the doctor operate? And what will be the medical insurance that will cover the doctor in the face of this situation? We know that on the whole insurance issue states (see Australia) have jumped. So this law, which seems harmless, all about self-determination of the person, in reality, since it involves not only the person but also a mechanism and a health organization, certainly involves extremely serious situations. I would also like to mention the problem of the register, which is not insignificant, be careful. Senator Sacconi remembered buying a scooter. If you have a car to sell, go to the PRA and do all the paperwork, because someone might ask you at some point to pay the fines or say they have committed a crime with your car. So there is a precise and punctual strictness in the sales relationship. Here, on the other hand, we leave everything to the most total aeatoriety: we do not know if the registers will be municipal, regional, if the Regions will interconnect with each other. Nothing is known: total alienity. The last point I would like to make, Mr President. We have now set out on an oblique plane. Unfortunately, this law will pass. And this is an oblique plan. The Netherlands too had begun with a very strict oblique plan: selected cases, ethical committee, very strict and everything else. Well, they are legalizing the blind and the depressed, and you know that Italy is the largest consumer of antidepressants. Let us hope that this inclined plane for us is not vertical. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u48	We greet students and professors of the Istituto comprensivo statale "Virgilio" in Camposano, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work from the stands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u49	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u50	Mr President, I intend to address this issue by exercising a delegation that explicitly comes to me from an association of which I am one of the members and in which I participate. It is an association that is born to remember and address this problem on the basis of a real human story, that of Walter Piludu, a man of great intelligence, ability and unique energy. He was a political militant, was in the institutions and exercised the role of president of the Province of Cagliari, as political leader of a large left-wing party. In adulthood, around the age of sixty, he became ill with ALS, and he, together with his family, his dearest affections and his friendships, lived that experience with the same perspective with which he had lived his whole life, that is, with a political perspective: a personal problem that is also the problem of many and therefore is a social problem. He lived it like this and so handed it down to us all, asking those who still had a political function to gather their reflections and submit them to the parliamentary debate. He addressed himself with a very touching letter from a human point of view, but very lucid from a political point of view, to those responsible for the political formations of that time, of every field and deployment, to say: "It is not a discussion between you, but it is a debate on a problem that concerns us, our family members and our affections." So when you face it, take into account our testimonies, take into account the life lived, even in those moments, by those who are in those conditions and need an instrument to be able to decide. Mr President, although I am a left-wing man, unlike Walter, I am a Catholic and, therefore, when I face these problems I always carry with me my cultural and religious origin, but I have great respect for the living conditions that people like Walter have had to face in their last years. I think I should not only express my thoughts here, but above all yours. I did this by proposing motion 1-00371 on this subject in January 2015, which is in the proceedings of sitting No 372. The motion is the body of Walter's letter to those responsible for national policy to put this issue on the agenda of parliamentary activity and put it as a solution. Walter asked for a legislative instrument that could regulate, with the great attention due in these cases, the choice of those who lived and suffered that situation. Walter then left us, after having written this letter and many other things with the beating of his eyes, while he was in a bed, obliged to a mechanical breathing device, living a condition, even from the point of view of nutrition, particularly troubled, risking to suffocate every time he went through something that ingested, in a difficult condition with crises, surrounded by his family, that, only to see him in that condition, they suffered with him. But he himself tells us - and I think it's right to call him back - that he never had suicidal delusions and that, precisely as he was a layman and therefore a non-believer, he had the awareness of life that that life was one. So he was attached, attached to his own existence and not willing to give it up for a whim, for a renunciation of suffering; but he also had the awareness that life is relationship and that when he had found himself in the condition of no longer having a chance of relationship with others, as a layman, as an unbeliever, he would be considered at the end. I make this speech remembering him and the association, the many who in that association have engaged in this battle to get to this moment. If it were also the only thing worth saving from this legislature (but it is not so and I tell all of us before telling others, who no longer respect politics), it was also the only thing in this legislature that we do for the recognition of people's rights - and it is not the only one - this legislature would have made sense. He wouldn't have had it if we hadn't all committed ourselves, beyond the ranks, as Walter wanted, who says so, addressing everyone: give up the paternity of this or that initiative, put yourselves on the side of those who live a condition and ask for answers. [[Recalls of the President]] I'm done, Mr. President. I just want to remind you that this is just a legislature that, in terms of rights, has managed to overcome differences, build lines, solve problems and produce advanced legislation, which makes Italy an important country for Europe, a country that we must leave to Europe as a heritage. [[Applause from the Mixed-CP-S, Mixed-SI-SEL and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u52	Mr President, I would like to add something that we must take into account when examining this draft law or, better, the subject of this draft law: the rules are then applied by someone. Others - Senator Rizzotti has done it very well, in particular - speak of the doctors who find themselves having to apply these rules: we must not compress their professionalism, their conscience and the ability to evaluate situations with the experience and the in-depth knowledge they have. But judges must also apply the rules. I remember what happened at the time of the case Eluana Englaro, in which there were judges who deduced the will of this poor girl from a statement she made when she was well, when she was less than twenty years old; speaking of the case of a person in very serious condition, it seems she had said that, rather than being in that condition, she would rather die. Some magistrates later used this element to determine what was the will of this young woman, applied to a case that she did not even imagine, that would then have her reflections and her decisive moment many years later; beyond the merit, whatever the orientation taken by the interested person, her father and all that has been added, when faced with forcings of this kind, one must be very careful. In fact, faced with certain openings and faculties then, perhaps, comes a magistrate who, if he only applies the law does not become famous, while he becomes famous if he makes innovative judgments and in other words goes against the law and the Constitution. The Constitution, in fact, states that the magistrates are subject only to the law and therefore are subject to it, even if one always remembers the word "only". On the other hand, we must remember that what we write in these classrooms does not remain so, but it must be applied and sometimes this happens in such an extensive way that we have to measure words even more than we have to do in writing a law. Therefore, with our amendments, which everyone in the Forza Italia Group has tabled on a personal basis, we have drawn attention to the need for it to be clear what the anticipated provisions of will are, that we would have preferred to have been declarations, for the reasons outlined earlier by Senator Rizzotti and other colleagues. However, there is another point that needs to be made clear, since these statements can be made by any means. The medium is fine, no matter whether it's in writing or with a recording; the important thing is that through it (whether it's written, a video or an audio recording) it's obvious that those are statements made for the purpose of applying them in case the person is in those conditions. For I do not know whether Eluana Englaro would have said the same things again if they had said to her: then let us apply this to you, even in twenty or forty years. We must therefore be careful. Another important point is the issue of minors and those who are incapable, and there should be far greater limits than that. Whether parents decide, who give their opinion - that's what we say - is normal, of course. In the meantime, however, account should be taken of the fact that there are children, even at a very young age (figure ourselves a 17-year-old), who have full capacity and in any case the right to express their opinion and in these cases it should be clearly written that, in doubt, work is being done in favour of the preservation and continuation of this person's life. It is not imaginable that they entrust themselves to third parties, even parents, decisions that can determine death or that determine death with certainty; in fact, the cessation of therapies can result in death, but if a person is not fed or hydrated he surely dies; therefore there should be a guarantee clause whereby the child must be treated in such a way as to keep him alive in any case. Paradoxically, in order to achieve these results - as I said earlier about the fact that in writing these laws we have to take account of those who apply them - we have asked for the suppression of words that we actually fully agree with. In paragraph 2 of Article 3, which concerns minors and incapable, it is said that informed consent to the health treatment of the child is expressed having as its aim the protection of psychophysical health (on which of course we agree very much) and of the life of the child in full respect of his or her dignity. I and a number of other colleagues have asked to delete the words: "in full respect of your dignity." Did we do this because we are against the dignity of the minor? Absolutely not. We are very strong, with our hearts and minds, for the respect of the dignity of the child, but we have seen what happened not in a strange country but in the United Kingdom, which was still in the European Union at the time, and it is still in fact now. By law it is, even if it has asked to get out of it, but, in any case, it is within a series of international bodies with countries of great civilization. The judges, in order to protect the dignity (this was the formula) of Charlie Gard, of this seriously ill child, prevented the parents from taking him abroad, to the United States or elsewhere, where he could be treated with innovative care, of which the effectiveness was unknown compared to the stage of the disease at which poor Charlie Gard had arrived. It would, however, have been an attempt. He was absolutely certain, and the doctors themselves certified it, that Charlie Gard would die staying in that hospital, not trying new treatments. He probably would have died with these new treatments, but the judges said (and the issue, unfortunately, also reached the level of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg) that this child could not be subjected to the stress of bringing him to the United States of America: it would have been too much for his dignity. Of course, dying's fine. Taking a trip to try new treatments, however, is not good. Let us forget, then, dignity, because if it is considered the dignity of a person to prevent, against the heartfelt will and in every way repeated of the parents, that a child is cured, let us leave it aside. Unfortunately, dignity for us is the sacredness of human life, but for others it is evidently another thing. All that resembles euthanasia must be analyzed with great caution. Here there is no active euthanasia but when one gives such faculty, on the basis of binding statements for the doctor (which can be changed but as long as the person is conscious and not, on the other hand, evidently, when these things are to be applied), it is foreseen the possibility of doing an action that determines, as I said before, certainly death: that is, to suspend the feeding, even artificial, and hydration. We are faced with a culture that is moving forward and that is very widespread. Let's talk about the famous (at least, I hope it's famous, even if it's not much talked about) statement by Jacques Attali, considered a great thinker, highly esteemed also in our country, where he has many admirers and even personal friends. He, not many years ago, spoke of the appalling words. I quote: I believe that it is in the very logic of industrial society that the objective should no longer be to extend life expectancy but to ensure that, within a given lifetime, man lives as best as possible, so that health expenditure is as low as possible in terms of costs for the community. And you see how it goes here? For Christ's sake! Quality of life! Quality of life in relation to costs and where there is someone, who is not the person concerned, who judges what the quality of life of others is. Thus, a new criterion appears, writes Attali, the criterion of life expectancy, that of the value of a health system, a function no longer of lengthening life expectancy, but of the number of years without disease and, in particular, without hospitalization. From the point of view of society, it is preferable for the human machine to stop brutally rather than progressively deteriorate. Apart from cynicism, that is, absorbed cynicism, health costs would never reach, if this splendid criterion were to be applied, the current level. Then he theorizes, after sixty-sixty-five years, to seriously consider the hypothesis of generalized euthanasia, except for rare cases, among which of course there is himself, who has far exceeded this age, is still among us and has not thought to implement his ideas. These apply only to others, who are the mob, whose cost is calculated, and not to themselves, who are considered the greatest thinkers. But he's not a crazy fool who doesn't listen to anyone. He is considered (and he himself has said so several times) the discoverer of the current President of the French Republic, who says, even, that he has predicted and built. And it is known that he is one of the leading advisors. So, let's not talk about a lunatic who doesn't listen to anyone. He himself said that his claims were taken out of context. It is true, he is right, the context is even more interesting because the premise to arrive at this reasoning - which leads to saying that over sixty, sixty-five years a person should be kindly and warmly invited to be killed through a form of very kind euthanasia, for charity, and that it must be analyzed, says in an interview Attali - is that there is much talk about the cost of the production of goods, but we must also ask ourselves the cost of the production of consumers. The human being, in the vision of this thinker - who has great prestige and listening in the gates - is defined as a consumer and what it costs to society and is not merely consumption, so that those who produce low-cost products and in any case on a huge scale can make a profit, is considered a cost to be reduced as much as possible. What interest does the person have in those who feel that way? The fact that it consumes; if it does not consume, it can also die. If, in addition to not consuming, it costs more than what it consumes, then it must be suppressed. When there is such a vision, I repeat, not in some paradoxical statement, made in a theater to scandalize people, but by a person who writes books, is listened to and affirms, never denied, that he considers himself the true discoverer of the current president of France, one of the most important countries in the world and certainly in Europe, we must be very careful. I would therefore like to quote another sentence: machine productivity increases faster than productivity relative to consumer production. Consumers and machines are not on the same level; the aim is to consume machines and products, the problem is that we have too much cost for the production of consumers, so the real end of society is the sale of the product and not the satisfaction of people's needs. Attention: when there are people around - and there are people in our country too - who think this way, we must be even more cautious than a matter of this kind would already require. I hope that this will happen during the examination of this measure, in particular with the amendments I have mentioned. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u53	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u54	Mr President, unfortunately, this law is also no exception to the rule that everyone wants to see things from his own perspective, from his own point of view, arguing the truths that are convenient, the half truths. Perhaps the rule of politics is ideological confrontation and visions of the world of life. Those who think of the indispensability of the law in our examination, as we have heard in several speeches, omit many things or do not say what they should have said. In the meantime, we are not faced with legislative holes. If there were not such a law, it would change little or better would change for the worse if it passed on the altar of the sacredness of the wills of the person. As for informed consent, in Italy it has been law since 2001, when our country has transposed the Oviedo Convention a few years before. This convention, in substance, states that even in Italian law any intervention in the field of health can not be carried out except with the consent of the person concerned and after it has been informed and has had complete information on all the consequences of the treatment, both in the event of acceptance and of not wanting this treatment. Well, if the person is able to express this consent, he does, but it may happen that he arrives in hospital in desperate condition or better in unconscious conditions and therefore the doctors who are in front of the injured have to do something. In that case the medical ethics, so you have to let this person live, then you call some family and you ask them whether to continue in therapy, treatment and treatment, if this person has given dispositions in case of unconsciousness, who among the people near him can decide for him, and whether a parent, a relative, a wife or a cohabitant can or not endorse and give consent to the continuation of the care of the doctor. All this, therefore, is already there, so I almost no longer scandalize myself to hear the aberrations of those who say that if this law did not pass the person would be in complete ban. But at whose mercy? Health care workers, who have the obligation, until proven otherwise, to recover every life, to cure every person and to try until the end to experience all attempts to avoid illness or death. This existing system, partially, wants to formalize it also in a written way, but it would be better to say "documentary way," because all the written dispositions are valid, but also those left in another way, with a video or with computer media of other nature, that, if the law were passed, should end up in the medical file of each of us, that we are healthy subjects, but that we are always, potentially, of the health patients. Where is it that the bill in our examination innovates, in the opinion of those who speak? I remember that the League has left freedom of conscience on the issue of the end of life, of the treatments more or less consensual, decided or rejected by the patient. The bill innovates by introducing two cornerstones, which at least we thought were such: nutrition and hydration, if "artificial," are considered health treatments, ergo in the availability of the person. A few years ago we had dealt with the same subject, with a debate a little more objective and rational, less full of tensions, between "innovators" and "conservatives." Then it was thought to leave the person the freedom to choose whether or not to accept the cures, but it was said that the person cannot choose not to eat, or rather, if he was not able to choose, he cannot die of hunger or thirst, as hydration and nutrition cannot be considered therapies or cures. In this law the word "artificial" is added, which would suggest that, since he is not able to eat or drink, he must be an unconscious person. If it is not conscious, the only way to moisturize a person is to use the systems we know, but also a conscious person is subject to flebolysis, because if in any clinic or hospital they denote a lack of hydration, the first thing that is done is the classic IV, with which you report salts and hydrates to the optimal medical values. Good. Let's say it's part of the patient's availability, and when we say patient, we also need to consider one of his delegates, the possibility of being fed and hydrated. The first thing that clashes with Article 1 of this bill is the fact that we are going to write among its purposes, that under this law we want to protect the right to life. This is a lie written in law because, in fact, not only does it not protect the right to life but it states that there is the right to die. People, on behalf of other people not able to decide, can get not only to refuse a cure but can get to reject the power and hydration because giving the possibility to a person to decide otherwise not to let her drink and not eat for a few days, means giving her the right to pull the plug, to kill a person, interpreting his will. The law in force now, on the other hand, obliges nutrition and hydration. It allows the right thing, that is, that a person who is at the end of his life may also decide that he does not become angry with treatments that probably will not have any chance of sanitising, but will lengthen his life by a certain period and the patient may decide not to tolerate such a situation. Today, for example, it is expected that the doctor and health care facilities will be obliged to carry out pain therapy - clearly to remedy unnecessary suffering - and to apply palliative care. But if we were to make the speech of exaltation of the will of the subject, we should also put in the subject's availability the possibility of rejecting palliative care, of rejecting cures that serve to alleviate suffering and pain. Why do we say this in the bill? Because it is believed that it is the least essential to say that a person is not able to understand, but at least he does not suffer. None of us, I think, can say what degree of suffering one can suffer by not eating and drinking. Those who support the goodness of this bill claim that they can suspend or be denied to an unconscious patient the power and hydration. This exaltation of the will and self-determination of the person, in the medical field, is even a struggle against deontology. The doctor's ethics is also mentioned in Article 3 (5) of the draft law, where it is said that in the absence of the anticipated provisions of treatment, if the person refuses the proposed treatments but the doctor considers, instead, that these are appropriate and necessary, the decision is returned to the judge to protect. Here one of the important points is touched: the doctor indicates a cure that he considers indispensable for the patient to live or heal. The person can say otherwise, that he does not want that cure. At this point the doctor perceives that it would be an automatic declaration of death and he cannot accept it because his professional ethics, (I also think his morality) prevents him. At this point there is nothing left to the doctor, following the law, but to delegate to a judge, to the judge to protect, the decision whether or not to operate that type of therapy. In all other cases, we say that your doctor is required to follow the anticipated treatment arrangements. Made like what? Public act, private writing. It is true that the absence of stamp taxes and tax charges is expected, but it will always be necessary to go to a notary in case of a public act, or to the town hall in order to subscribe and authenticate a private writing. There are those who think that this is the solution while I, given also the lack of predisposition of the Italian people to make non-organic, but normal, ordinary and successors wills and given the honesty and complexity of the procedure, I think that - probably - there will be few people who will resort to this type of method to define the provisions. I would like to conclude by asking a question to all of us. Let's think about the person who has to decide on the basis of arrangements left by another person, but in other times, in other conditions (e.g. when he was well, while now he is no longer conscious) and with other scientific, medical or technological knowledge. The question will be asked. I must apply the provisions of this person, who instructed me to decide in the event of his incapacity, who ten years ago, in conditions of health, youth and vigor, said: rather than living in that way, do I prefer to refuse that kind of care? Or he said, in case I get cancer, let me die. It has to be said that in ten years the cure for cancer has taken steps of giants. It seems to me that certain types of cancer today are 90 percent positively solvable with even invasive, quite simple, harmless treatments and that they do not cause suffering. We are acting as legislators at this stage. What do we do as legislators? Today we write dry words on sheets of white paper and determine what will be and what will be done tomorrow. Tomorrow we could find ourselves being the ones who decide whether to unplug the famous plug. To who? Maybe to our father, our mother or our son, hoping that this will never happen. Colleagues, let me ask you a question. Who today is so sure and convinced that this is a good law, tomorrow will have the same conviction and security in deciding to unplug that plug? I am not, therefore (I am just speaking on my own behalf because - I repeat - the Group of the North Legacy has decided to leave freedom of conscience on this issue) I will never be able to approve a measure such as this. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the work will be suspended for an hour. (The sitting was suspended at 1.05 p.m. and resumed at 2.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u58	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Madam President, I would like to point out - because I am interested in following, as I did this morning and will do throughout the afternoon, the parliamentary work and to note what my fellow Members are saying, because I would like to speak dialectically on such an important subject - that at 2:30 p.m. the Justice Commission is convened, where there are equally important issues and at 4:30 p.m. there is also a Council meeting at 4:30 p.m. I know that my Parent Company has asked for all the Commissions to be disconcerted because there will be no work in this House tomorrow, so the Commissions can very well be convened tomorrow morning, allowing all colleagues now to follow the debate in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u59	Thank you, Senator Giovanardi. I know all the Commissions have been desecrated. So you can sit quietly in the Chamber and work. Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a controversial and divisive proposal for a law on which we must think with absolute lucidity and serenity of mind, out of all a priori logic and closed to dialogue. I would like to stress that those who contest this proposal are not opposed to the informed consent or possibility of the DAT, but must be the two issues, informed consent and DAT, proportionate to the real situation. Instead, we are dealing, as we have received from this House from the House of Deputies, with a proposal for a law which, in my opinion, goes in the wrong and sensible direction. It is a law that has a strong euthanasic content. It is a law that, starting from the concept of piety, in fact, is transformed, through a mechanism of perversion of piety, into a sort of abomination. We'll explain why. This morning, in my speech on the questions of constitutionality, I started from an assumption that I want to repeat here: none of us live for ourselves, none of us die for ourselves. Instead, the assumption of this law is absolutely contrary to this principle, because it starts from the idea of self-determination of the person and this self-determination reaches the point of having life considered as a available right by the subject. So far we have always reasoned in a system of moral laws, which have then been translated into constitutional principles, also transposed into our Constitution, and also into an order system and a series of judgments that have followed in the jurisprudence in these decades, which have considered that life is not a good available. In our view, this is the premise on which this proposal for a law is based and from which all the errors that I will shortly explain are based. Therefore, there are aspects to be deepened and a first no certainly is addressed to the virtually definitive value of the DAT, an expression of a cultural presumption that considers possible to measure the reality a priori just when it becomes urgent in pain. It is arrogant who wants to legislate on the unknown, or rather on the mystery. It is absolutely crazy and arrogant who wants to take over death even going to roam a sweet death. Then there is another set of issues on which we will focus our attention. The first is that we went from a text that spoke of "declarations" to a text in which we talk about "dispositions." Another question is to consider nutrition and hydration as a health treatment. Then there is the question of the revocation of the DAT, the issue of minors and inability, and all this does not take into account two fundamental aspects: the topicality of the various situations that are being created and their contextualization. In fact, we are going towards a recognition of suicide, which turns away from assisted suicide into allowed murder. In all this there is a deminutio of the figure of the doctor: the doctor who has always dealt with the integral good of the person, the safeguard of the life and the psychophysical integrity of the patient is transformed, in the article of this proposal of law, into a sort of executor, a mere executor who risks transforming his professional action even into crime and therefore illegal. Above all, in this bill there is a ban on conscientious objection, which is not recognized at all. In turn, this is a violation of Italian law, constitutional law and also international law. We know how that to conscientious objection is a fundamental right of the person and this is certainly to be extended not only to the person, but also to the structures; the norm, on the other hand, provides the obligatory application to all structures, both public and private. All this derives from an idea of a man who, so to speak, is discouraged and discouraged the hope and questions of meaning and truth that, especially in pain, make human nature mysterious and often wonderful. A few days ago the director of the palliative care unit of an important ASL asked this question: "Why must we in such a hurry ensure the right to die, before we have done everything possible to guarantee to those in incurable or chronic conditions the same reception, the same respect, the same opportunities, without time restrictions, due to all others?" AIROLA (M5S). Read the law! MARINELLO (AP-CpE-NCD). I would also like to focus a part of my speech, as I anticipated, on the aspect of artificial nutrition and hydration. I went to refresh my memory. Many of my colleagues know that I am a doctor, but I had doubts, and it may be that my studies were dated in time, since I graduated in 1982. But still today the manuals of the medical profession operate a precise distinction between two concepts mistakenly considered synonyms: a principle is that of therapy, by which every health treatment aimed at the healing of the sick; instead, by cure is meant every care care intended for the care of the person. From this distinction it follows that therapy is related to the disease, while treatment is related to the person. If there is no disease there is no therapy, while wherever there is a person, there is definitely cure and this regardless of health conditions. To what logic responds the statement that, when the aforementioned cure is practiced by another person, as the subject is not autonomous, becomes a therapy, indeed a therapeutic aggressiveness, which, as such, can be suspended? It is not acceptable for the National Committee on Bioethics to be ignored or totally ignored, which says that artificial nutrition and hydration, as ordinary means of life support, cannot be regarded as therapies in the strict sense and are part of the care provided by every patient, especially if disabled. Water and food do not become medical therapy just because they are administered by artificial means. The suspension of nutrition and nutrition must be evaluated not as a necessary interruption of a therapeutic aggressiveness, but rather as a particularly cruel form of abandonment of the patient. The request of the DAT for such a treatment is a request for a real omissive euthanasia, acceptable both ethically and legally to an active euthanasic intervention, unlawful in every respect. However, even with regard to artificial nutrition and hydration, the principle of appropriateness must apply: if nutrition and hydration appear appropriate in relation to the clinical state of the patient, they do not constitute therapeutic aggressiveness and cannot in any case be suspended. Obviously, if the doctor is faced with a condition of malabsorption, rejection, non-assimilation, stasis of the circle due to cardiovascular deficiency, he will be the first guarantor of the interruption, as an inappropriate and harmful garrison. [[Recalls of the President]] I could continue with other remarks, but I would ask you, Madam President, for a minute more patience. I believe that the fundamental error of those who want this law is that they want to overcome the sense of the limit; that sense of the limit that in the moral law, which disregards all other laws, because it is at its origin, should always make man distinguish what must be done from what he does not have to do. Madam President, then I ask myself once again: in here, here, ut deus? [[Applause from Senators Comrade and Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u61	Senator Zuffada is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u62	Madam President, first of all, as Mr Palma has done, I would like to point out that the Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura Group does not have an ideological and preliminary view of the measure under consideration. In fact, already the name "Forza Italia" in its enunciation evokes freedom of conscience without prejudice, therefore in 12a The Commission has approached the measure under discussion in this spirit, not ideological and not preliminary. This morning I was surprised by the intervention of my colleague Mineo, who pointed out who does not think the same way and does not share the bill in question as an Oltranzist, an Islamic Oltranzist, I dare say in his case a Catholic Oltranzist. I am a Catholic, but I am absolutely not an Oltranzist as mentioned earlier. On the contrary, the Oltranzists are those who take a favourable attitude to the provision from an ideological point of view and not entering the substance, accusing others of ideologism and of having prejudices. When the measure was brought into 12a Commission the Group Forza Italia-Il Popolo della Libertà XVII Legislatura, demonstrating that it does not have prejudices, has not made a proposal obstructionistic, has not tabled more than a thousand amendments, but only a hundred, focusing them in particular on what it thought and believes to be the criticalities of the measure. Unfortunately, there has not been any kind of openness on the subject; indeed, in the past, apart from certain positions of doubt on the part of some members of the majority, we have never in fact entered into the substance of the issues. On the other hand, we felt that we should be prepared to discuss the text, to find a solution for the improvement of the draft law which we considered to be positive in the general approach. We believe that an ethical state cannot afflict its citizens in ethics and morals, but in our opinion it was possible to regulate what was laid down in the draft law. It has not been possible to do so, in the sense that there has been a de facto preliminary attitude in accepting some indications which I believe would have favoured the law. It is not my custom to repeat what my colleagues in Forza Italia said very admirably both in the debate in the Commission and especially in this morning's speeches, which have been very admirably illustrated by Mr Rizzotti and Mr Palma. Criticisms have been expressed in a fairly uniform way and I believe that some of them are also shared by the majority. Sometimes, in fact, it is said that the law could certainly be improved, but in the final phase of the legislature you always get to blackmail: since it is not possible a further passage to the House (that has made disasters on this provision), it is better to approve a law is not perfect, hoping for a subsequent improvement. Since there is nothing more secure in Italy than what is provisional, this is obviously a matter that does not concern us and what struck us in a particular way is the haste that has occurred in bringing this measure to the House. We cannot fail to suspect that political movements, especially of this parliamentary end, can be subjected to the blackmail of this or that political party that pushes to make coalitions only and exclusively if some measures are brought to an end. This does not seem to me the correct method and above all it is in the interest of improving the law. The principles contained in the measure can be shared, the content, and above all some aspects that have been explained by colleagues, cannot be shared. These are the reasons why we, even in the freedom of conscience, as it should be, express a negative judgment on the substance. We regret the fact that, neither in the Commission nor especially in this House, we can make those improvements which, in my opinion, would also be desirable by the majority. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u63	Senator Romani Maurizio is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u64	Madam President, today we are talking about the early arrangements for treatment. I'd say, finally. I'm a doctor, too. Many of the Senators have talked about how the doctor relates to this early disposition of treatment, seeing the doctor as someone to whom functions are taken away, as the fundamental one that consists in saving life. It is equally true that we talk very often, in this period, about a life that has lengthened, even if this is not really a topic related to the provisions anticipated in my opinion, but, rather than adding years to life, the objective that a doctor must have is to add life to the years, because the situation of well-being, or malaise, is also made up of many relationships, relationships, sharing, planning. I often wonder then, as a layman, what planning, what a life of relationship, what problems of this kind and what kind of life there are in a subject that is totally capable of understanding and wanting, but has a vegetative life. We come, however, to what is contained in the law. In general, we move in the context of the implementation of the law on the basis of which no citizen can be forced to undergo medical treatment against his or her will. Much has been said about the fact that the project includes the possibility of rejecting the feeding and forced hydration that, in fact, are health treatments, as they require a health intervention in order to be able to administer them. In the imagination of some people there is the idea that to suspend the diet means to stop taking the patient. In fact, these are totally vegetative patients with a type of diet that is very different from the one we are used to thinking about. The law must clearly state that the patient's will is binding. But the doctor is not merely an executor of the patient's will. The doctor must always have an informed and listening relationship with the patient. By excluding the institution of compulsory health treatment, in other cases it is excluded that there is an obligation for a citizen to undergo health treatment. Any adult who is capable of understanding and will can draw up a biotestament (or DAT, as we call it) by public act or private writing. This tool has been designed to enforce our will in case we lose consciousness or knowledge. In addition, a trustee can be appointed to ensure that our wishes are respected. One thing we talk about little or nothing in the media is that in the biological will you can also ask the opposite, that is to be cured with any existing therapy or with the one that will come in the future. In addition, early processing arrangements may be withdrawn at any time and the trustee may also be changed. Neither euthanasia nor assisted suicide is mentioned in the text. That's another thing. The aim of this measure, therefore, is to avoid therapeutic aggression and excessive treatment compared to the possible benefits for the patient. Your doctor must always respect the patient's will to refuse, discontinue or continue any treatment. The provisions may be disregarded by the doctor in agreement with the trustee if, in the meantime, treatments have arrived to ensure the possibility of improving the patient's living conditions. Die has become an increasingly medical and impersonal experience (this is what we need to understand), with biomedical progress that has removed death from our daily lives. You die much more often alone in the hospital, with the machines that keep alive as the only companions in place of our loved ones who would hold our hand between the domestic walls and in our bed. More and more, compassionate practices and sometimes even clandestine practices are being used, leading to further suffering for the patient and with judicial risks for those who administer and assist them. For this reason, too, I believe that it is ethically correct, under certain circumstances and under certain conditions, to ask to put an end to your suffering in advance and above all to put an end to it with dignity. Let us bear in mind that technological progress in recent years artificially extends the terminal and agonic phases, often delivering the patient to long paths of suffering, I dare say almost to cruelty. On the other hand, in most cases, the shortening of life does not exceed a week; sometimes it is equal to a few hours compared to the natural course of the end of life. I repeat, it is not euthanasia, but a law that avoids pain and suffering when there is no longer hope, when there is no longer a reason and there is no more purpose. It is a question of the dignity of life and each of us is free to give the answer that most corresponds to his beliefs; a decision that cannot be made in solitude, in silence and very often, as happens now, in hiding. I conclude by quoting the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 438 of 2008, in which it is stated that the fact that the informed consent finds its foundation in art. 2, 13 and 32 of the Constitution emphasizes its function as a synthesis of two fundamental rights of the person: that of self-determination and that of health. The legislator therefore has the task of making these rights effective precisely because they are defined as fundamental, avoiding that self-determination can translate into solitude of the person and irresponsibility of the institutions. Biotestation does not facilitate anyone's death and does not diminish the commitment that doctors will put in treating people, nor will it diminish their talent and dedication. However, it is right to look reality in the face and recognize that extreme pain and situations exist. Precisely for this reason, it is now necessary to create a new system in which each resource can become an instrument at the disposal of the therapy process. I will not tire of repeating these two concepts: medicine must be unique and integrated in all its branches, as unique and uncomfortable is the human being, and that the well-being of the person is a concept that can change when the patient changes and that must be identified, on a case-by-case basis, with dialogue and with a careful and specific medical approach. [[Applause from Senators Bell, Petraglia and Silvestro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u65	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u66	Madam President, I am speaking after my colleague, who is a doctor while I am a nurse. I would like to remind you that this bill has been presented to the House of Deputies for some time now, (on 4 June 2013) and that it was voted on in April 2017. It is a measure that brings together 16 draft laws, presented by many MPs from various political groups, and reports 250 signatures. It is therefore a shared and felt provision. That is therefore a bill of civilization that gives an extra right to those who will freely take advantage of it. No one is obliged in advance to arrange now, for when it will be, what his life will do and the provisions, as the previous colleague has said, can be changed in itinere. What I write today, I can see again a few years later, perhaps in light of the fact that the therapies have changed and the science has gone on. The codes of ethics, both medical and nursing, emphasize the proportionality of care, in the sense of quality and appropriateness: in these two words it is implied that there should be no therapeutic aggressiveness, but the administration of necessary care - if still exist - proportionate and useful to the cause. Even the Catholic world, the Church and the Pope, recently, have matured the awareness that it is neither just nor ethical to perpetuate cures where it is no longer necessary, nor useful to do so, when to the question "what pro?" there is no more answer. In particular, for those who are Catholic I believe there is an intrinsic value in wanting and being able to renounce to live an earthly and material life. We are all born, we grow, we live and then we die: death is part of the cycle of life and, as Totò said in the poem entitled "A leveling" the dead are dead and they are all in the same condition. However, the way to get there changes and the measure under consideration affects those who are still alive and we do not know why they must continue to be in the world of the living, despite their body and sometimes even the mind no longer have any kind of relationship or exchange with the outside world, except the common suffering of those afflicted by the disease and of the people around them. Several times the word euthanasia has been uttered, which seems almost a blasphemous word, but if one analyzes its meaning, euthanasia is nothing but good death: where it is written that one must die torn apart by pain, or that one must come to death by now in the decay or transformation into worse than his own body, no longer recognizing himself in what has become. Euthanasia can be passive and active, in both cases the patient is not abandoned, but is helped with palliative and pain-killers, is accompanied in his will and in compliance with the choice made when he was in condition and had the ability to choose. There is no risk of non-action. It has been said several times that the doctor may not act, but it is not true, because in any case of emergency or urgency, towards a patient whose history we do not know, however we act: health professionals implement their skills, follow guidelines and good practices and act on them, doing actions aimed at saving the life of the patient. Only later, when you know the patient's will or find out that he has left provisions, you will assess what to do, but before, when an emergency or urgency comes, you do not wonder if the patient has left any arrangements or anything else. I can think of the case of a car accident or what can happen in an emergency room: first we act, then, once the situation has stabilized, we check if the person had left some provisions. So a therapeutic alliance will be made to evaluate what is the best path of care for the sick, in compliance with his will and his loved ones. We must respect the self-determination of the patient, who has the right to decide: this belongs to man, to human dignity and to the meaning of life. The bill at our examination guarantees freedom and autonomy: no one is obliged to write the anticipated provisions of death, as to date no one is obliged to write if he wants to donate the organs, because it can be done, how not to do. In a world where life expectancy extends, the quality of life improves thanks to research, science and technology, this discussion seems to be antithesis: deciding to end one's life seems not to be progress, but in reality I think it is a highly progressive choice in compliance with the Constitution and, in particular, the second paragraph of Article 32. Alessandro Manzoni said that not everything that comes next is progress and he was right, but giving rights and giving the possibility of self-determination, if it is not progress it is definitely a progressive choice. I shall therefore vote in favour of this draft law and I am glad that it is before the House, albeit at the end of the parliamentary term: this is an important path, which after years of discussion outside these Aules finally finds the right response. I therefore hope that a decision will be taken as soon as possible. [[Applause from Senators Romani Maurizio and Silvestro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u68	Madam President, I have to say that I am a little afraid of the certainty I see in the statements and discussions of some fellow senator: it is a certainty that in some other case I would have envied, because those who are resolute in their decisions are always people to be respected and to be considered. But when I see so much resolve and so much hasty decision in taking a position on such a delicate issue as the value of life - because that is what it is about, we must remember, we are not talking about death but about the value of life - here, I, frankly, cannot envy colleagues who even deliver the intervention without even developing it, considering that everything has already been established in the political secretariat agreements that have defined that this measure, coming to the end of the legislature - a slow legislature - must be approved at all costs and therefore must be closed because it wants, of course, the Secretary of the Democratic Party. No, that is not an attitude I like, Mr President, and I would like to censor the way it is. There are assessments that need to be made on the merits, political assessments and ethical assessments. I shall start with a political assessment: if this is such an important bill that it must be approved, it is wrong that there should be interventions that say that this is a law of civilization because this means automatically pushing those who do not feel the same way in the field of civilisations. No, in a debate of this level, of this tenor and on this matter there can be no distinction between civilization and civilization. It is a matter of ethics, of deep feelings, it is a matter of respect for deep values. So I invite those who support this bill to respect the opinion of others, first of all avoiding a method that today is very widespread that is to label by categories, civil-uncivil, because so it cannot be. Turning to the question, let us look at this measure at the end of the parliamentary term, not at the will of the opposition. We can certainly say that we have tabled many amendments and offered many opportunities for reflection on this proposal for a law as well as on others that we did not agree with in the approach, but the fact that the majority did not have the strength to conduct a debate on this issue in five years, dragging itself to the last and now coming to say that we must close quickly and fury, is not a sign of maturity but, unfortunately, is a sign of a pre-pochism in defining the priorities of politics that even comes to use ethical issues and choices that touch the fundamental values like life when we arrive in the pre-election phase, which is what we are living through. This does not give me a great feeling of quality in making politics, something that characterizes us all, for God's sake. We who do not agree, unfortunately, participate in this season in which what appears or what is fed to public opinion is more important than the content of the news itself. I am disappointed, Mr President, to hear in the speeches that preceded me that this will not be the best draft law possible in our examination, but in the meantime it is a proposal for a law. Colleagues, we are not talking about a bill on urban planning, construction or taxes, which are extremely serious and important matters but on which we can return with a subsequent adjustment. These are laws that come in tight on people's right to life. Frankly, I do not accept the approximation by which they are diluted in the speech. You see, Madam President, moving on to address, on the other hand, the aspects that are relevant to the ethics and content of the bill in our examination, in Europe there are countries that have already gone much further than Italy. In this regard we will have to understand, one day, what progress is and whether having already legislated in certain directions is really progress or if, on the contrary, it does not mean a loss of values because it cannot be all brought back simply to rushing questions, let's say, aesthetic, the important thing is that the eye does not see heart does not pain, this is the circumstance. As I said, for example, a country like Holland, when it began to legislate on this issue, did so with preliminary statements: a very strict legislation that defined very strict stakes and should in no way have led to further enlargements or loss of determination on keeping the border between life and death tight. Today euthanasia is explicitly applied in the Netherlands. Once again, Mr President, I would like to ask why this law has a title which, to an undistracted eye, is not superficial but of any person who reads: The rules on informed consent and early processing arrangements appear to be a round of words. It could easily be about the TFR, the end-of-relationship treatment, an economic relationship, or anything else. Why not write "the first and last name" of what is being discussed? Why not write whether or not it is euthanasia, whether it is a question of the right to life, whether it is a question of care or not? Why change names? [[Applause from Senators Volpi and Auricchio.]] This for me is symptomatic of a will that does not have the courage to explain itself, to come out in the open, but that hides behind turns of words. Madam President, I can think of a sentence of Manzoni's Promises Spouses in the moments of Manzoni's plague: Common sense was there; but it was hiding from it, for fear of common sense. Colleagues, be careful not to lose the sense of things for exquisitely political and aesthetic satisfaction. A law must be made because this Government must come to the end of the legislature with reforms that, as some colleagues wrongly said, are civilizational. In fact, that's not necessarily the case. In fact, in the face of these laws I am taken more by doubts, than by certainties and I invite you to reflect who, with regard to what you go to decide, should feel inside only certainties and not doubts. Objectively, doubts on these issues must always be present and never forgotten. The doctor, who begins his profession by taking an oath, in this case is even discharged of civil or criminal liability. But what is the need to release him from civil and criminal liability if he does not commit a crime? It is a paradox in itself: in the provision it is written that he does not commit a crime, but automatically he is injured. There is one issue that is not overcome in the provision: I am referring to the ethical and moral aspect. The doctor is told that, by law, he is obliged not to take account of the oath he took. Do we realize the paradoxes and strident situations that are created? Madam President, I have the impression that, after law, we are no longer aware that we are going to go down the foundations of the house in order to satisfy that aesthetic need to show that it has been done. We are talking not just about any law, but about a measure that gets tense, not in the ethical-social relations defined by the Constitution, but in the sacred right to life. That's what I'd like to hear. Who believes that? Here it is not only a matter of black or white, as there are nuances in the middle and evil always has a trivial root. It is always and only a matter of time, then there is progressive growth, but it is a circumstance of which few have awareness. It is a bit like that figurative image of the frog that, inside the pan, swims serenely and does not notice that the temperature rises little at a time, until it is boiled. Madam President, experience should teach something. When discussing the draft law on de facto couples, one of the objections that was raised by our Group - which I endorse and repeat - was that of the border to which it would be reached. During the debate it was absolutely excluded that, through the law on couples in fact, a bypass of what is forbidden, that is, the use of the uterus for rent, would be introduced into our system. Now I ask myself - but I urge a reflection in my colleagues - how many days have passed from the approval of the provision to the sentence by which a magistrate legitimized what the law prohibits, that is, the procreation through uterus rented in a foreign country, and the birth of a child that is then adopted by a couple in fact in Italy. What the law in Italy prohibits, in this case, through a judgment of the judiciary, has been legitimized. It really happened; it's objective facts. Then, in the face of this, I wonder: if you open this door, you have a beautiful strength, a beautiful fantasy to support today that the door, then, will not open more. What, in fact, is the difference between the respect of the will of a person who, after arriving at the end of his life, is not conscious, but has established in advance how to be treated, and the definition of the threshold beyond which care must not be provided, beyond which the cost of care is excessive? Let's think about the case of that minor, little Charlie, who has already been recalled: we are talking about a minor, a person who does not have the capacity to understand and want, but for whom others decide; in the specific case, even, going to take away the power of the parents and replacing a court in the final decision whether or not he should still be given assistance, a cure. I am convinced that very important steps must be taken in the direction of considering the dramatic situation that lives or that a person can live in the final moment. I am not at all convinced that this is the law that is needed and above all that it is the way in which to legislate, even stifling a debate for exquisite political needs to arrive, at the end of legislation, to say: we have done so. I am not at all convinced, Mr President; indeed, the doubt in me is getting stronger and stronger. We live a strange season in which even those who should point the way by identifying absolute values hesitate to do so. Relativism is clouding more and more I do not say reason but conscience. Politics must be very careful to get into ethical issues. Such an important subject cannot be turned to political opportunism. It is not just a matter of civilization or dignity, but of fundamental values. With regard to civilization, it comes to my mind, with reference to the execution of the death penalty, that at some point the debate focused not so much on whether or not it was lawful, but on how the condemned should be led to the scaffold with the least suffering possible. It was a matter of dignity and civilization. The debate is about life or death and not about the way in which death is administered; it cannot be that, otherwise simplification really makes fundamental values lose sight. It is a law of civilization: we have heard it often; indeed, I have heard it personally also in a debate, President - there was Senator Cirinna - who began by saying that this provision is a law of civilization and automatically, on the other hand, who does not think the same way is not civil. I also have a lot of concerns about the way we do information, which tends to reduce everything in these terms. However, there has just been a demonstration outside - there were more or less 20 people - about the ius soli, also because this is the other priority with which you want to close the legislature. Mr President, this is not an easy debate, but I think it is very useful. It is a pity that it is done in such an in-depth way, in the very sense of the term. I turned on the television first and I looked for some communication that would bring back the parliamentary debate or some commentator that would discuss it. None; they are all engaged on other issues that obviously make more news. This gives some idea of what the priority is in the country. If it were a priority in the country, it would be debated at all levels. The problem is that this is certainly a political priority, and woe to politics that does not take account of its own limit. If we are talking about life and ethics, politics must recognise its limits. Then, for someone it may also be an opportunity to replace the will of the Eternal, but I believe that this is yet another illusion of the end of the mandate. We are made of flesh and bones and the other aspects, beyond a certain limit, do not last us. We have no right to decide who to give and who to take life. The debate is open and we expect, of course, that, in the amending phase, we take account of our demands and assessments, which aim to give respect to the will, without losing sight of the fundamental value that lies at the base. To remove food, water, food is not a way to close the path of civil life and to accompany death; it is a hypocritical way to close a discussion, to proceed simply with the false pity of those who see a person suffer and say: let's give him the blow of grace and ends there, the important thing is that he does not remain on my conscience, indeed, if someone does it automatically, without seeing it, it is definitely better. I don't accept this attitude when it comes to a cat, let alone when it comes to a person. Some very convinced colleague delivers the speech and does not even want to debate it. I don't envy these certainties. I think we need to regulate, but not in this way. Mr President, I expect the Government - and I say this also to Mr Finocchiaro - to take the amendments seriously. They can also be evicted; part of them can be removed, but there are amendments that need to be considered because they leave the person at the centre and take account above all of those who are unable to choose. The problem is not the person who has the will to choose and will choose for when he is unable, but the person who is no longer able to choose must be protected because his will expressed in a certain circumstance is not said to correspond to his good at the time when his will should be brought to completion. My concern becomes extreme in case this type of situation concerns minors, those who do not yet have the ability to choose and, by law obligation, puts their lives in the hands of someone else. God forbid that the courts should open the way and let themselves be left in the hands of them by this law the power to take away from parents their power and to decide for minors when they are not well trained. This would be the worst aberration this 17th legislature can make in concluding its own path. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u69	He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti Isgro'. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u70	Madam President, the biotestament bill is a very delicate subject. Many times some face it with great superficiality. It has been made clear by my party colleagues that we, with regard to the subject of biotestament, were willing to discuss and find the best formula to give a good law to the Italians. Within this bill there are many things that do not convince us and many things that we would have liked to change, but we were not allowed to intervene. I would like to list everything, but I cannot because the time available to me is very short and, then, I will just focus on two issues that are important to me. I don't think they are just for me, but also for so many others, who have my own cultural background or background, shared by some, not shared by others, perhaps by someone who is mocked and by someone else who is accepted. I would like to focus on two words that have been used by many in this House: hydration and nutrition. This law provides that hydration and nutrition can be blocked and that the sick to which hydration and nutrition is blocked is helped with sedatives. The correct name to use to call this procedure is euthanasia. We are not in favour of euthanasia for a number of reasons. Some are - for goodness sake, I don't mean that they are wrong or that they are saying right things - but I want to bear witness to my culture and, in this way, try to make it clear that those who support euthanasia, for what concerns me and for what concerns us, are on the wrong path. Another reflection that we make and that we have put to the attention of the majority is conscientious objection. What does that mean? It means that you do not want to leave it to a doctor to hear the problem and carefully consider the problem that afflicts him when he should pull a plug and say that he is not in a position to do so for a number of reasons that belong to his culture. Take these two thoughts aloud, I would add that someone in this House has spoken and said: The Pope too, using what the Pontiff said. What does the Pope also mean? That the Pontiff said yes to euthanasia? What did you say yes to the abolition of conscientious objection? It's not like that. You have stated the false because the Pontiff, in Philadelphia to be precise, personally affirmed that conscientious objection is a human right and that, if a person is denied conscientious objection, a right is denied to him. So what you have said to this day, using the Pope's words, is completely wrong. I would now like to invite all those who, within the parties, say that they belong to the Jewish-Christian culture, who claim that it is correct to behave in one way rather than another. Before entering into the reflection, however, I would like to recall some words that are not mine, but that are written, according to which we Christians, who come from the Jewish-Christian culture, we pray for the authorities; we do not care if the authority has been elected in the Democratic Party or in Forza Italia, but we pray for the authorities and ask that what Christ has given us be put into effect: Give Caesar what is Caesar's and give God what is God's. This is a clear reflection, contained within a text that should be a reference point for our culture for us. I understand that when we talk about Jewish-Christian culture, someone says that Christ should leave him on the door of Parliament and enter without him. Let us be careful: it is not that we want to change the secular state; we want there to be a strong secular state, but we Christians would like to give an added value and bring our reflection within this assembly to make laws that respect our indications and the path built by our culture and our fathers. Give Caesar what is Caesar's and give God what is God's: what does this expression mean? It means that we must give Caesar what is Caesar's: if the coin bears Caesar's head and it is written that it belongs to Rome, that it is given. But if life does not belong to Caesar, but to God, then we must give it to God. This kind of reflection, however, does not apply to everyone and I understand it perfectly; it applies only and exclusively to those who say they belong to the Jewish-Christian culture, and not to Forza Italia, but to all the parties present in this House. This means that, when laws are made that go beyond and enter into what belongs to God, we have an obligation to restrain and to make people reflect because, if we do not intervene, we would not do a good job. Some may not share, indeed many do not share, but do not belong to my team; they belong to a different team. By belonging to a different team, for them everything we say has no meaning and no meaning. In addition to this, however, there is another great reflection concerning those who say they belong to the same team, which is the team of love, mercy, truth and justice. They say that freedom of conscience exists. What does freedom of conscience mean? Does that mean that everyone is free to do what they think is right? Everyone advises with himself, takes a position and says: that is the most correct? Or does freedom of conscience mean channeling it into our culture? If those who speak to you belong to the Jewish-Christian culture, it means that all that is conceived must be aimed at the common good, peace and a path that is dictated by the doctrine, which in this case is the Christian one. If another says he belongs to this great culture, which is on the right, on the left and in the middle and, he simply mentions freedom of conscience without linking it to the second passage, then he is out of all rules. You can assert your freedom of conscience and say that you measure it with your culture. Then, if I am a Buddhist, I measure it with my Buddhist culture; if I am an atheist, I measure it with my atheist culture; if I am a Christian believer, I must measure it with my Christian culture. And I cannot say that the second step is no longer useful and important. Why do I make this reflection? To say I'm right? No, I want to testify in this House and remind myself and the people here what our culture is and what we should do; what we should do, that is, have the courage to tell what we belong to and who we are. Someone before me spoke on this subject and said what life is. Is life something we can take away and give as we please? No. Then, if we cannot do this, we must question ourselves and we must look very carefully at this bill on which, at first, on the part of my party too, there was willingness to discuss, and to make an examination with the utmost attention and to bring out a useful text for the country without harming and mortifying anyone. But if on the other hand someone says that the truth lies only and exclusively in his pockets, in his head and culture, this means to overrule the freedom of others. That is why I allow myself to make these reflections. Before I continue to make others, I must say that the responsibility of those who consider themselves Christians is different from that of an atheist: an atheist has a lesser responsibility of the Christian, because the latter knows what he is talking about and what he should talk about and what the witness he should carry on; the atheist has made another choice and therefore has a minor responsibility, because he looks with eyes different from ours. Having said that, as far as Catholics are concerned, a Pope, who has also been sanctified, wrote a text in which he says with great force and with great clarity - I synthesize and carry it back in a simple way to understand us - addressing Catholics clearly, that if Christians actually know Christ and are convinced of what is contained within what is called Christian doctrine, they should have the courage to block all laws that are against life. And if they don't have the strength, they should try to change and improve that text. Then I turn to you who say that you are Catholics, Christians, Orthodox and Evangelical: does what the Holy Father has said - now holy to all intents and purposes, having been beatified before - still have less value or not? What does this mean? Do you Catholics, evangelicals, Christians and Orthodox want to make a Lord and a Christ in your own way, or do you want to follow the trace that has been given to you by your doctrine called Christian doctrine? Why do I make this reflection for the second time? Do I want to bring religion into Parliament? No, because Parliament must be secular and legislate with tranquillity and serenity. We Christians, however, must also bring Christ in, and this means bringing our values not to oblige others to do what we support or say our Christ, but to bear witness and say what the highway is. Even our God has left us free to work in good and evil and to choose the way we want, but he has given the correct direction. He said that is the path that should be followed and, if someone does not want to follow her, he can do it quietly, because he will continue to love him even if he does not have to love him. But we have an obligation to say what is the way and the path we should follow. So, to sum up, what do I want to say, President, to the friends who belong to this world? When we affirm "freedom of conscience" it can be valid in general for all. To those who follow a certain doctrine, however, one cannot say freedom of conscience without specifying "finalized" to the common good and peace, that is to say to our doctrine. If we belong to that culture, belonging to that culture means freedom of conscience in the context of our Jewish Christian history, which means, for us Christians, Christian doctrine. This is the reflection I wanted to make overall. There are so many topics that we could discuss from a medical point of view as well. I am a doctor, and specifically a gynecologist and obstetrician and, I dealt with clinical oncology. When I took the oath, I swore to fight with all my strength to save the sick from death. If what I swore yesterday is no longer valid today, tell it very clearly and we also replace the oath of Hippocrates. This is what we should do: we should speak clearly and in the truth, because the truth belongs to God; not clarity and falsehood belong to Satan. I say this not - I repeat - to create confusion, but to make only and exclusively clarity. I hope that this bill can be amended on those two points in particular which I have drawn to your attention, which are the issue of hydration and artificial nutrition, so that it does not vent into euthanasia, and freedom for the doctor. The doctor should be free to operate with serenity and tranquility and not under pressure from someone, who may have interests in putting an end to some life. [[Applause from Senators Zuffada and Comrade]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u71	Senator Fattorini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u72	Madam President, I would ask that I be able to deliver the written text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u73	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u74	He's enlisted to speak Senator Iurlaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u75	Madam President, today we are asking ourselves about life and what death is: a debate on this subject and on the present proposal which seems increasingly surrounded by philosophy, religious concepts, granite beliefs, in one sense or another. I am not a philosopher, above all I am not a religious or a preacher; I am not even a politician today; I am trying to fulfil a role, that of the legislator, like all of us in this House. I can't, therefore, answer these questions or at least I can't do it by hoisting on a pedestal, which doesn't belong to me and doesn't belong to me. Then the questions change and, when the questions change, the answers also change. Let us think about what freedom is, what the law is; above all let us think about the love of all those who give care to their sick. On the subject of end of life and bio-testament, Parliament has a moral obligation to fulfil, which is to give an answer not to the dead - as little elegantly polemicized by someone - but to the living, to those who suffer and ask for the legal recognition of disease and pain. It is our job, Parliament, to give an answer to everyone, regardless of beliefs and beliefs. Yet, even by relying on my Christian and Catholic culture, I feel the need to question myself. The words of Pope Francis - someone says - do not represent an openness to the biotestament; but those words - we have all read them - speak of love, of care; they certainly speak of non-practication. I want them, therefore, to read, as many opinioners have done, as an opening. And, if this openness is there, if these words of love of the Pope are there and I read them as such, then it is time to approve the rule under consideration. It is not possible for the ruling class we represent in this House to stand by. It is not possible for the ruling class to be passively overcome in terms of ethics and morals. It is not possible for this Assembly to find itself the victim, even before fake news on the subject, of a often petty media campaign carried out on social networks. It is not possible for politics and institutions to destroy the concepts of freedom and legal clarity with immobility or, worse still, obstructionism. This time, it is not a matter of displaying philosophical concepts or even idealisms. At the moment, despite the debate on a sensitive subject, we find ourselves floating in a normative limbo, a vacuum so great, that it remains anchored to obsolete principles in contrast to the freedom and right proper of any individual to dispose of his or her life. To the normative voids, especially when the corrosives of freedom, it is necessary to give certain answers, that is, a law of civilization, over which consciences prevail, and certainly not the party Diktats or electoral strategies. On such a complex subject, they remain the obligation to look at their consciences and the need to look for a comparison, not so much in surveys, but rather in affections and in the family. Let us think, then, of families: the Welby family, the Englaro family, DJ Fabo; let us think of a jurisprudence that, with important judgments, has already outlined the line of legality and humanity. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us for once try to overcome ourselves and truly embrace the concept of individual freedom. Let each one do so by following his own conscience and each one - it is true for all - does so by listening to his own sensitivity, without violating his own role and humanity. Everyone - I conclude - does so without ignoring that cry of pain and suffering often silent and at the same time deafening, too deafening and too painful to continue to pretend nothing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u76	Madam President, the previous speaker mentioned the Englaro case. Until that story, together with President Pera, I was among those who believed that the law did not take place, but that that small community composed of father, mother, husband, son and doctor was, in the millions of cases that can happen - and unfortunately happen in every family - the circle of people who could establish the difficult border - I say to my colleague Iurlaro - that the Catholic Church has always defined exactly with the words of Pope Francis, of what is not euthanasia or therapeutic aggressiveness. So there was no turning point. It is enough to know the previous positions of the Church to see that Pope Francis said exactly what all the popes said: no to euthanasia, no to therapeutic aggression. However, we felt that it was that community that had to make the decision to accompany the patient to a death that was the least terrible and the least painful possible, through palliative care and painkillers, but without getting the patient to die through an active surgery (a sting) or through the road that seems to me to be chosen with the bill under consideration: at some point it no longer feeds and therefore inevitably the person dies due to lack of nutrition. The Englaro case upset the cards, because I'm not so sure it was a case of great civilization. I would like to remind my colleagues of a situation in which the young Englaro, lovingly cared for by the nuns she had been entrusted to for years, if you like, could have been a vegetable. Yes, he had a life like that of a plant, but it was a very healthy and not sick plant. I was a deputy of Lecco and I know very well that she was raised in the morning, was taken to the garden, took the sun; she lived as in a placenta, in a world where she saw and recognized, even if like a plant, if you want, or an animal. And I say that in a noble sense, because no one today would kill an animal of hunger or thirst, because it would be considered a barbarian. From that situation she was traumatically thrown into an ambulance, removed from the loving care of those who had been following her for years, taken to a dark room a few miles away, where they no longer gave her food or drink until she died. Was this an act of civilization against that young woman? In my opinion, it was an act of barbarism, because a life - if you will, a plant life - has been traumatically cut off, of course, without you ever expressing any consent, but only through a hearing, for an ideological opinion of the father, of which I do not discuss feelings. I just wonder what could happen if we apply - and this is one of the questions I ask, since I would have liked a more in-depth debate - this speech, since children are also involved, to tens and hundreds of minors who today live in Italy the condition of Englaro's daughter. Just go to the Cottolengo, Caritas or the League of Golden Thread, that only charitable structures where you assist blind, dumb and deaf children or have irreversible pathologies. If we are to reason in terms of Charlie Gard, it is clear that those who assist those children are criminals and not worthy. Moreover, these children, as happens in the Netherlands - I am thinking of the Groningen protocol - are suppressed because they say that their lives are not worth living. When we begin to talk about the dignity of life and of lives that are not worthy of being lived, anyone who knows history knows that what happened in Germany at the end of the 1930s was simply a reproduction of the positivism of the countries of the North, which had already applied euthanasia, eugenic selection and had authorized the fact that the race should be perfect. It is no coincidence that in 1939 the entire policy of doctors of the time in Germany was born - as in some cases today - from a petition of two parents who had asked the Führer to be able to kill their seriously ill child. He sent his own personal physician and, out of pity, granted - as the parents had asked - that the child be suppressed. Then, of course, there started an unstoppable avalanche. I read in this law - and this is the case with Charlie Gard - that, in case of disagreement between the doctor and the parents, the magistrate decides whether or not the treatment should continue. Let us be clear: in Italy we are in a situation in which a conscious person can decide to die and no one can prevent him. If I have a gangrene leg and I ask not to be operated on because I want to die, they have to let me die. If a person undergoes an operation of a certain type, he knows that after eight he dies and, if he does not want to be operated, he does not have surgery; if he does not want to be cured, he does not get treatment. We are now talking either of minors or of newborn children who are naturally unable to dispose of themselves, or of cases of people who are no longer able to express their will, for whom there is the figure of the trustee. For the children we found the magistrate's solution to solve the problem. For adults, instead, what solution have we found? What does the law say if there is a contrast between the doctor and the trustee? Paragraph 5 of Article 4 states: Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 6 of Article 1, the doctor is obliged to respect the DAT, which may be disregarded, in whole or in part, by the doctor himself, in agreement with the trustee, if they appear manifestly inconsistent or not corresponding to the current clinical condition of the patient or there are therapies not foreseeable at the time of subscription, able to offer concrete possibilities of improvement of living conditions. And this happens if the doctor and the trustee agree. What if the doctor and the trustee disagree? If they do not agree, they shall proceed in accordance with paragraph 5 of Article 3, which concerns minors and those who are unable to do so. Paragraph 5 states: In the event that the legal representative of the prohibited or disabled person or the support administrator, in the absence of the early treatment provisions (DAT) referred to in Article 4, or the legal representative of the minor person refuses the treatments proposed and the doctor considers that they are appropriate and necessary, the decision shall be referred to the court for protection. It is the magistrate, that decides. Imagine the practical consequences. I'm not thinking about the famous cases, and I'm saying I'm very supportive of the families involved. In the case of Welby, I would have pulled the plug, too, and I don't see why you couldn't unplug it. He was conscious and, willingly, wanted to finish living: he wanted to be no longer cured, since he lived only because he was attached to a car, which he asked to disconnect. Perhaps the problem would have arisen if, once the car had been removed, he had continued to live. If he didn't die, in fact, another problem would have opened up. But that is not what we are talking about. We are talking - as Professor Gigli said yesterday, based on his medical experience - about what is happening now in all emergency rooms in case of a stroke or head trauma of a person hospitalized following a car accident or because in conditions such as to be no longer conscious. The first thing your doctor will ask you is whether you will be able to intervene with that person. [[Comments of Senators Bencini and Silvestro.]] Yes, it will. The first question you will ask yourself is whether you can intervene or whether the trustee will come. It's written in the law. If a person says that, in case of stroke, he/she does not want to be cured, he/she cannot be cured. If, in the event of a road accident - as in the case of Eluana Englaro - he reports a head trauma and therefore loses consciousness and does not want the cure, the patient's will must be respected. The will of those who have left their will must be respected. And, as Professor Gigli has rightly said, who has 40 years of hospital experience - and I trust him more than some colleague who shakes his head - because he knows how the situation works - if you intubate the patient and save him because you restore all his vital activities, the family will make him a monument. But if he gets intubated and then he gets permanently injured, they're gonna go find the doctor and tell him that that person had deposited the DAT and the trustee had gone to tell him. But if the trustee disagrees with the doctor what happens? They have to go to the magistrate. You understand, therefore, what can happen if the doctor finds himself having to intervene in the event of a conflict or if they have told him that the patient has deposited the DAT, but without knowing where. Another folly, in fact, is the fact that there is no national deposit of the DATs, which are deposited at regional level. It may happen that a person has lived in Emilia-Romagna, where he gave the arrangements, and then lived ten years in Puglia, where he gave different dispositions from the previous ones. There is not even a place where you can know in real time whether wills have been deposited. Through a national computer archive, one might immediately know - for example - whether Mario Rossi, born in a particular location, has released wills or not. We have nothing in hand with regional management. It is certainly not a great idea to build a national archive to draw on to know whether the provisions on the last will have been given, revoked or not. However, there is no such forecast in the law. And then what will be the consequences compared to other elements that have been emphasized, that are secular and have nothing to do with religion? Everyone who makes doctors or knows the organization of health care knows that health management is something else than treatment. The only concern is to restrict expenses, to call doctors every moment to use as little diagnostic as possible, because it costs, and to use proportionate care not to go out of the budget. That is the great concern. It's not therapeutic. They have to make up for the budgets. And this is absolutely right because, unfortunately, if you want to cope with emergencies, you must then be careful about public spending and its methods of use. However, I have heard a lot of colleagues talking about civilizations, but with children of two, three or four years old how do we do it? This is exactly the case of the small Englishman, who has upset the world's public opinion. The law at our examination proposes the same problem, making the magistrate decide. Yes or no? Yes. Colleagues of the majority, does anyone deny it? It says so. It's the magistrate who decides. So with all the public opinion that rightly turned against that cruel choice, taken against the will of the parents, how do we put it? Are we so convinced that there is great adherence to the law? I still haven't figured out how to deal with the child problem. We think of minors with irreversible pathologies that are now treated and assisted in Italy and that, yes, is a primacy of civilization. If someone says they have an irreversible disease, do we continue to assist, treat and keep them alive? Colleagues of the majority, will you tell me? From the law, because it is irreversible disease, without the possibility of healing, would result a negative response. If we add what the Democratic Party has said, I am shocked. Senator Finocchiaro, it would be interesting to know the reasons why, having signed with Zanda, five years ago, a document from the whole PD Group, quoted and read in the Assembly, which says that nutrition and hydration are not medical care, and therefore there is no discussion about the fact that they must be applied anyway and always, we arrive, five years later, to say exactly the opposite. I also know that a child, a minor, a person who has had a trauma, if it is not fed and hydrated after an operation, dies. But he doesn't die because he's sick. Like Eluana, not fed among other things, she will make the most terrible and painful death that can be imagined, as happened to that girl. And I didn't hear any answers. I have raised problems with the first aid and with those who in medical practice will be confronted with situations of people with trauma, suffering from stroke or other diseases that had given disposition thirty years before and in that case would not have wanted. What does the doctor do then? I'm worried about who made the DAT. However, I am also concerned about those who do not. The doctor should in fact ask first whether or not he can intervene. Then who tells me I can intervene? Is there a provision of last will that has been delivered? Perhaps a little good will would be enough, since it seems to me that there is no discussion about the fact that the conscious has every right not to be cured, to die or to let themselves die - on this there is unanimity - while the moment when one wants to make those dispositions, can make them, but - attention! - by mediating them with the doctor, who - as has rightly been said - is not an enemy. Colleagues, here the medical class and doctors have suddenly become the enemies of the sick. There may also be among doctors someone who does not do his job or does it hurt, but doctors, from the Hippocrates oath forward, usually, in principle, are the ones who try to cure the patient and not to kill him. However, the doctor becomes something else: we are talking about provisions, which are imperative and insuperable. I'd like to understand something else. Unfortunately, we did not vote and we did not have time to ratify the Oviedo Convention, which was on the agenda for a sitting of about a month ago, but then this measure was bypassed by others. Colleagues, the Oviedo Convention, which Italy has signed, says that the provisions are an indication and not an obligation for the doctor, and it says so quite clearly. The doctor is therefore given guidance, but he is not bound to respect it at all. Why is Italy the only European country that, with the measure under consideration, violates the Oviedo Convention, which has as its main objective the health of the citizens and does not get to tie hands to the doctor and make him find him in certain situations? I read the papers and I don't know if you've read what's going on in Holland and Belgium. I am referring to the cases, which multiply, of people who have changed their minds, but whose change of mind is not respected, because they are told that they have previously established that, under certain conditions, they should have acted in a given way. So, again for the issues I mentioned earlier, of a cultural, moral, financial and economic nature, even if the patients are a little recalcitrant, one is led to execute what they had thought thirty years ago, although in the meantime they have changed their mind. Of course, this brings with it doubts and concerns, and this was very well said by my colleague from the League who spoke earlier. So how do we get to the last second in this House in the face of issues such as these, by skipping the debate in the Commission... DE BIASI (PD). Not this, Madam President! Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) ...giving basically a debate that will last a day or two and no more, and sacrificing all the shared measures, which are on the waiting list and will lapse. I mentioned them earlier: we go from respect for the witnesses of justice, who risk their lives to help justice, to the problem of cultural goods, to compensation for non-capital damage, to the issue of orphans. They are all measures which have not been included in the timetable or have been in such a position that they cannot be adopted in this parliamentary term, even if they are widely shared. So, I would take it slow to say that some of the issues that have been debated are examples of civilization. By civilization I mean something different and above all I would have liked - and I hope it will be done in some subsequent interventions - a clarification on some things, such as, for example, therapeutic behavior. I have the experience of a doctor in the family and in recent years I have remembered several times - I have heard them directly - the polemics in the emergency room about doctors who, in case of a heart attack, that is, when the heart no longer beats, say that the patient is now dead, while others try to revive him for twenty, thirty or forty minutes. Well, in the years dozens of people, thanks to the continuous attempts of resuscitation, which lasted even half an hour, were revived and then led a very normal life. What should the doctor do in that situation? Do you have to say that the patient is dead or appears dead, and then just draw up the death certificate, or do you have to stoop to try to recover it? The same is true of the drowned, when rescuers try to breathe it again for half an hour. As you can see, things then apply to concrete cases and do not become a bureaucratic issue. The border between euthanasia and therapeutic aggression is not a bureaucratic thing, but it must be seen moment by moment and case by case. Of course, if the law, instead, imposes and orients also culturally towards certain behaviors that all go in the opposite direction, they go in the direction of saying that those who are irrecoverable, in the sense that they cannot have a full life, must be eliminated, explain to me gentlemen how this thing works, when we talk about children; tell me if, in the light of this reality, someone can say that a child of one, two or three years who is in tragic conditions - and everyone knows that it can never be recovered - must continue to live or not? We already have the Down problem. There is the massacre of prebirth Downs: if there is a diagnosis of Down syndrome, you are eliminated. The parents' associations of Down children continue to explain that a Down is a happy child, who leads a life full of relationships and affection for his father and mother. It will be the father and mother who have problems, because they are dealing with a difficult situation but not the Down, who instead lives a very happy life and relates to others. What do we do, then, in cases of children who have an irreversible disease but live, with all the difficulties we have? Silence, silence, or words that do not reflect what is written in the bill under consideration. So, as far as minors are concerned, could we write it better? We could clarify for a child who does not have the availability or a disabled person - as a very concerned colleague who cares about disabled people said today - exactly what happens? And what role do we play in the judiciary? How does a magistrate decide? These are all questions that remain unanswered. There are no answers. There may be answers, which with a little good will could be found but not in this bill and certainly not in such a written text. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and FL Groups (ID-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u77	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u78	Madam President, we are at the end of the parliamentary term and I am officially asking the technicians to fix my microphone because it is now destroyed. Coming to the subject, we begin to make a statement, asking that it be put in black and white permanently, seen and considering that, in various television broadcasts many colleagues and journalists, who until two days ago were dealing with Ius Soli and were experts on the subject, a few months ago they were dealing with constitutional reforms and told us that bicameralism was not good, as well as civil unions, have now become experts of the end of life and of DAT. In all television broadcasts, when it is said that we have concerns about this measure, we are told that we are obtuse. So we are not obtuse, and I remind the few Members present in this House. However, we are opposed, President, to what is called therapeutic aggression, as the Holy Father said on more than one occasion. We are opposed to therapeutic aggression. We are about to avoid, Mr President, that people suffer and, consequently, we believe that something should be done. We are convinced that something must be done. Some of you may attend or have attended Italian hospitals, especially where there are people dying or suffering or being kept alive, precisely because of what we call therapeutic aggression. Well, something already is done, because there is a relationship between the doctor and the patient, a relationship between the doctor and the relatives that no law, President, can go to normal. However, we must enter into the topic, considering that you wanted to do so and you did not have the numbers to do anything else, also since this summer you promised the country that you would give to the young children of extra-Community couples, to the young non-EUs, citizenship and therefore you had illusive them. You have deluded tens of thousands of young people, but you don't have the numbers and, given and considering that something you have to bring home, you have let us into this topic. I'd rather talk about something else. I would have preferred to talk about birth, which in Italy is practically less and less. I'd rather talk about something else, but let's talk about this. There are two kinds of ideas about life. There is an idea that speaks of the inviolability of life, which is what the North League has been carrying on ever since, and then there is an idea that is that of self-determination, for which everyone can determine his own life, self-determine himself and decide when to die (in a while you will tell us that a person can decide even when to be born) and self-determination leads to assisted suicide and euthanasia. This is the theory, the philosophy of life. However, gentlemen, the Italian law - that famous Constitution and that famous penal code to which we all have to refer - speaks of the unwillingness of one's life and, consequently, the incitement to suicide and the murder of the consentor are punished criminally. And we're going that way. Why do we say no to this law (repeat, this law, as it is done)? Because the measure under consideration is the antechamber of euthanasia, because it has content that leads to euthanasia. Compared to the draft law that had been passed in the previous legislature, whose process had not been completed, since only one of the two branches of Parliament had expressed its consent, the ban on euthanasia and the inviolable right of human life disappear (because - alas, for all of you - it is an inviolable right) and the prohibition of aid to suicide. It is referred to as "dispositions" rather than "declarations." These are important things. They sound like words and the distracted citizen can say: Hundreds, what a difference there is between provisions and declarations! Well, dear citizen, there is an abysmal difference. In the draft law under consideration, the administration of water and food to medical treatment is equal. As I said, we are opposed to therapeutic aggression with medicines, but - as we have said on several occasions - we are also opposed to starving and thirsty people. The administration of food and drink is not therapeutic; the administration of food and drink is, in fact, the administration of food and drink. The therapeutic bitterness of medicines is quite different and, consequently, at a time when the measure equalizes the therapeutic bitterness (and, therefore, the administration of medicines) to hydration and nutrition, we cannot be favorable. Consequently, we are tabling amendments to amend and delete such a proposal. Eating and drinking are right and not therapies. Therapy is far from it. We were talking about provisions and declarations, another reason why we disagree with this law (and not with others). In fact, at the time when a person makes a statement, the doctor that the cure takes into consideration that statement, which however is not binding. At a time when, instead, a provision is made, as provided for in the measure, it binds the doctor to its implementation, even if and because the provision has been given years and years before. If I make arrangements, the doctor is obliged to follow them, even if I gave them twenty years earlier and the medicine evolved or I changed my mind and I forgot to make other arrangements. As a result, we find ourselves with doctors obliged to follow what the patient had arranged. As a result, we are also for a periodic renewal of the declarations, as you will see from the amendments that we have tabled and it is an abysmal difference. Why do we say no and continue to table amendments? Because it upsets the sense of the doctor's profession, which becomes a mere executor of the patient's dispositions. The doctor, colleagues, becomes not the person who has to save my life, but the instrument of death when I gave the disposition that I do not want to be cured. For us, the doctor must not be an instrument of death. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] For us the doctor must be the person who saves life and who does everything to save it even in case of a patient's statement and not of dispositions. Life must be saved; there must be no switch for which the doctor reads that I have given the disposition that I must die and crush the key and I die because I have arranged so. The doctor studied, took an oath, and with that oath he swore to save his life. So, our goal is not to put doctors in a position of responsibility. Doctors must continue to answer for their actions, without the alibi of the DAT because, at that point, it becomes an alibi and we do not want to create alibi for anyone. At a time when the doctor, thanks to the DAT, no longer responds criminally to his actions, he becomes free to do what he wants. Colleagues, we're puzzled by the whole child-related part. Very perplexed. At a time when a child's disposition is accepted, when an eight-year-old is placed in a position to decide his or her own life, when a 16-year-old is placed in a position to decide his or her own life and when it comes to the point, in extreme cases, that it is no longer the parents who decide, but the court, that the fundamental values of the family, of the parents who are responsible for their children, even, if necessary, the lives of their children are lost. How can we expect a child of eight, nine, ten or eleven to be heeded? What maturity does a child of that age have? Our law provides that at eighteen you are able to understand and want: at eighteen you drive the machine, you vote and you have rights and duties. As a result, I listen and have to listen to a person when he reached his age while here, as when talking about ius culturae or ius solo, let's call him what you want, we gave the possibility to an eight-, ten- or eleven-year-old child to decide and have the maturity to understand whether he wanted to become an Italian citizen or not. Here, even worse, one recognizes the maturity of a child to be able to decide whether to pull the plug or not, in extreme cases. Worse still, you take it away from your parents, in even more extreme cases, and you give it to a court of law. Cases like Charlie Gard's don't have to be in our country. We cannot think of having to witness in our country what we saw in England some time ago. We are totally opposed to such a proposal. [[Comments of Senator Endrizzi]] What's that got to do with The usual colleague of the 5 Star Movement. We are opposed to such measures and are therefore tabling amendments to amend the law. Another aspect that puzzles us is the impossibility of being able to object to conscience: the doctor must be conscientious objector to this unholy law. The hospital structure must be left with conscientious objection, particularly if it is a private hospital structure: I cannot believe that a hospital structure is obliged to follow such a law. Think - and I am addressing above all those who follow our work from the outside - that very often it is the courts and the magistrates who object conscientiously to the laws. Very often we have seen, at the time, on the crime of illegal immigration, magistrates boasting on television to object conscientiously to a state law. Then I say that, if a magistrate can afford to object of conscience, a doctor must be left free to object of conscience to a law that considers absurd and unthinkable and that transforms it practically into an instrument of death, rather than an instrument of life. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] DE BIASI (PD). Take it easy, though! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Doctors and hospitals still have to be that tool in the hands of the patient and the citizen to save lives, not to kill. DE BIASI (PD). President, a little consideration wouldn't hurt. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Madam President, we are not opposed to a law that regulates these matters and I shall continue to repeat it: we are not, you will never hear one of us say such a thing. However, Mr President, we are at the end of the parliamentary term, after the House has taken a very long time to deal with this issue. The measure has been amended and is now before the Senate, where it is unchangeable for the simple reason, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no more time to intervene. It is the classic law of the end of the legislature - as it was supposed to be the ius soli - immodifiable: either take it as it is or vote against. Either you are in favour or you are against; you cannot propose alternatives; you cannot propose changes; you cannot say - as we are saying - that you are in favour of a measure but you want to change the one under consideration. I would like to address my fellow Members in the People's Alternative - I do not see one in this House at the moment, but it does nothing, even if the subject should be of interest to them too - because, when I hear Mr Lupi say that there is a willingness to adopt the measure, provided there are changes, I wonder how it can be changed: and then to send it back to the other branch of Parliament two weeks after the dissolution of the Chambers? Therefore, either take this law as it is or vows against it. Fortunately, we are still a bicameral system; fortunately, the reform of the Constitution has been postponed to Mr Renzi by the Italian citizens. As a result, I repeat, this law cannot be amended. Therefore, all that I have talked about so far and all the amendments that we are going to propose in the 1,280 amendments that we have tabled are pure academy because, as you will see in a few hours it will be a succession of votes against, for 3,000 times or, if there will be kangaroos, for a thousand times, if it will be good, or for 100 or 200 times: "contrario", "contrario", "contrario", "contrario". Or they will ask us to turn the amendments into agendas, because an agenda is not denied to anyone, especially if we are at the end of the parliamentary term and this government is running out, worse than a damaged yogurt, and this majority - fortunately - is on the clock, worse than a damaged gorgonzola. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to table the amendments simply because we want the Italians to understand why we are against it and we are going to vote against it and what we want in our society. In the explanation of vote, I will also explain why we will vote against it. This is the last act of a heavy legislature, in which on more than one occasion you have changed our society to the worst; you have transformed our society into the worst. This will be the final act of a legislature that had to end, as someone said, after fifteen days, in 2013; perhaps it would have been better. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] You're right, Senator Mirabelli, we're here too, but I would have gone to the vote a long time before. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] What if your president...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u79	Don't talk...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u80	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Colleagues, if your President and your majority had done what they had promised, that is to say to leave the day after the referendum on 4 December, we would have gone home much earlier and should not have seen these shameful scenes. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u81	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u82	Madam President, it is indeed a bit depressing to speak in this House, to repeat speeches that have already been made, to continue yet again, to be disinterested, to listen little to what each of us says because there is boredom, resignation and confusion. Let's say that there are no ideal conditions for making a law and much less a good law. But how does it have to be a good law? A good law, first of all, must respond to real needs; it must find solutions and harmonize; it must be first and foremost full of common sense, never illiberal, never in response to media cases. A good law must not speak to the belly, it must interpret situations in the light of science, possibilities and lucidity. A good law must never be illiberal and must always guarantee conscientious objection in such cases. When there is a doctor, you must ensure medical responsibility. Why else do we graduate doctors? Why do we form them and enroll them in a book? Precisely because they take responsibility. When you make a law there should be all the conditions so that, once that law is passed, then the application is easy, clear, uninterpretable, not confused and above all because it cannot be exploited for other purposes that escape the good intentions of the legislator. We see many shortcomings in this law: the lack of a national register, for example. This parliamentary term, despite its intentions, has not even been able to clarify and implement with detailed implementing decrees the response to a request made to Minister Lorenzin when he first came to the Health Commission and asked us what the priorities were for us. In the Commission, among the priorities we wrote, we all agree: the electronic health file, computerization, the databases that speak. And that was not done. DE BIASI (PD). That's not true. FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Similarly, the training of new doctors and the new requirements have not been well reviewed, as there are still many unclear figures in the order (now we will see if we can complete the bill no. 1324, putting some order in that field too). This law therefore does not have the conditions to be applied in the best way, because many things are missing in the country and so much preparation is lacking. So even the best intentions can give a bad result. I would add that another characteristic of a good law is not to generate an increase in court disputes, either because the courts are already clogged, or because justice costs, you want because in particularly difficult and critical situations, those grey areas of difficulties that have important repercussions on the person who is in a situation limit between life and non-life, as well as on his family, friends and all the contours, the court never does a good service, especially because often not even can find the consultants, the CTU, with a profile suitable to understand and direct the judge in the best way. This bill is yet another one born under the emotional drive of many cases: I think of the case of DJ Fabo, who touched everyone and had so much media resonance. It is a bill that, after all, has been sponsored by a minority that has descended into the squares and, supported by some media, has influenced and conveyed in this vortex even those who perhaps did not consider it a priority at this time. The measure, therefore, risks to exploit the events that have taken place and to become a de facto legalization of euthanasia. I think no one is against the biological will today, but it is right that many of us have doubts about euthanasia, even hidden. Until now the legal system and the health system have protected the legal good life as the most valuable. I fear that the adoption of this measure, with so many flaws and gaps, not only in the provision, but in the country, may subvert the state of things existing. We talk about self-determination: very well, but self-determination must coincide and be contemporary with the freedom and lucidity of choices and, above all, a doctor must not be merely a certifyr, executor and endorser. It happens also in many other situations: think, for example, of a patient who asks the doctor, a plastic surgery that turns his face into that of an animal. If the doctor wants to respond to the patient's will he does so and is free to do so, but it is certainly not an ethical choice, in my view, or at least if a patient asked me for such a thing I would refuse to do so and advance an objection of conscience. And because there must not be a similar conscientious objection if the patient has made a request perhaps in a moment of non lucidity, you want because it is a particular moment, you want because convinced by someone, you want because plagiarized, you want because in a moment of crisis, depression, illness in a particularly difficult situation or of non-knowledge? A person can perhaps write a thing and then in time, at that point, when he is given what he has asked, realize that it was not what he wanted, not at that time, or maybe determine different situations that could offer solutions. The norm requires the doctor to respect the will expressed by the patient who wants to die. The doctor in this case is exempted from civil and criminal liability. Well, I'll tell you what. Instead, it seems to me a hasty choice, because it could open the door to dangerous drifts and the intervention of the magistrate, who is not a doctor. Still, we may have cases of serious patients who require only palliative means, so there is no cure that anticipates a cure and therefore there is no real effectiveness of the cure, but the cure is something that goes beyond healing. The cure is given to everyone. The therapeutic alliance between doctor and patient is important, fundamental, but who directs the whole, the painting? How must professional and ethical freedom be reconciled with the will of the patient? That must be clear. I am not for the therapeutic fervour, but I am not for euthanasia either, and above all I see another risk, that of reading norms oriented, which could also shape the freedom of therapeutic abandonment, being able to reach the extreme limit of an obligation on the hospital structures to guarantee the freedom that a patient can decide to die of hunger or thirst, even if he not only is not in a state of terminal illness, but is not affected by any disease. Extremizations, you will say, yet John Stuart Mill, one of the fathers of liberalism, repeatedly quoted in this debate, argued that principles must be valid not only to give necessary reference points to the government of simple situations, but especially when situations become complex. Only if the principle maintains its validity in both the median and extreme cases, then it is considered universally valid. This does not seem to me to be the case with the draft law before us. There is, then, another aspect related to the liberal conception of society, namely the famous problem of legislative interference: there is also a limit to the interference of collective opinion on the individual. Identifying this principle and defending it against all abuse is indispensable to the good conduct of human things, at least as much as protecting it from political despotism. Of course, there is the practical question of determining the limit, i.e. how to achieve the most appropriate balance between individual independence and social control, and that is, after all, the real game that is being played in this House. I believe that the existence of everyone is worthy of being lived and must be guaranteed. That depends on our will. The will of the legislator also has a limit; it has a limit in respect of constitutional principles and universal values that must determine the rules of action for all. While it is true that society, in order to be governed, needs rules, so that everyone's conduct is peaceful and orderly, so that there is civil coexistence, it is also true that there are many fields of life - and this case is one of those - that do not lend themselves to the use of legislation, at least when it is not so virtuous, but exposes itself to rigidities or gaps, which do not find, then, harmony in particular and practical situations. It is, of course, a theme that divides, with supporters of either thesis, either side. Already the speeches on the questions of prejudice have made it clear that, on questions of life and death, paradoxically, it is very easy to move from ideas to slogans. At the same time, it is essential to find clarity in order not to leave the interpreter too wide room for interpretation, which opens up the possibility of adopting solutions not present in the intentions of the legislator. I say this frankly: I have a fear - and I hope it will remain so - which I clearly express and is as follows. At a time when the national health system is aware of a dramatic reduction in the resources necessary to guarantee the constitutional dictation, which provides for the protection of health as the fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community, from the approval of this law could come down and hide a serious risk: in the context of increasingly scarce resources of the health system we could implicitly favour the reduction of the guarantees insured to the sick. In the management of the health system a cultural orientation is spreading that replaces, to the ethic of the cure, that of the sure healing and subordinates the supply of the health treatments to the respect of economics criteria; a logic that attributes to the State, in direct way, also the identification of the cases in which the cure is not convenient. There are cases where it is not convenient to assist serious or terminal patients and, in general, all people with treatable diseases in an expensive way, even if they are not healable. Just think of how certain private clinics select the sick and the things to do and the fact that certain public hospitals often find themselves all the risk with the least profit margin and therefore the deficit. This is one of the many inconsistencies that could be resolved in this parliamentary term, but obviously there was not enough clarity and willingness to do so. The bill under consideration could therefore conceal the risk that for patients who are too expensive, uncomfortable, one prefers that the freedom to let them die and save resources to treat diseases that are more easily curable, give more satisfaction and less risk to the doctor. You are well aware that the phenomenon described is already happening explicitly in some Western countries. Then there is the fundamental node already illustrated by the President of my Group, Senator Quagliariello, which concerns the uncertain attribution of the expression of consent, but also the crystallization of the will without possibility, in the case of a disease that takes away the possibility of understanding and wanting, of changing the idea, of interrupting the consequences of a choice made perhaps years before in diametrically opposed conditions, as in the case of the patient or the person plagiarized. I have cases in mind, because in the abstract everything may seem logical, but then we go to think about the real situations: how many cases we have of caregivers who have infiltrated some families and, after having been made to name houses, assets and anything else, maybe they give a "help" (there are episodes of accelerated deaths); in this case, let's say that a person is more than that of here: decides and so solves even the last tasks. The doctor is not a certificater, a endorser; he is a person in the flesh, subject not only to his own science, but also to his own conscience, to his own sensitivity and to the implantation of the norms submitted to our examination. Above all, he is subjected to the decision of the patient, who in this case imposes on him when to be cured, as if it were a customer who buys a good or a service. The role of the doctor should be placed in a relational context with the patient and his family. If this bill were passed, the risk of medical isolation and the consequent minimization of the importance of the report would be strong. Doctors are rightly ready for an interaction with the patient based on the simple, clear and transparent transmission of all possible therapeutic options, provided they are proportional to the disease, in the hope that the active and serene involvement of the patient can represent a strengthening of the care, precisely in order to be able to cure it best. On the other hand, the proposal provides for an alternative and almost opposite model, where the doctor appears to be almost a minor figure, a servant. With the bill in question we have cleared the servant doctor and this is evident also because of the introduction of the early statements of treatment, which are binding on the doctor. This means further reducing the role of the physician to the role of a patient's performance provider. The text, as it is conceived, seems not to adequately consider even the progress made by medicine: a patient who is not curable today could be in some time and today science is getting faster, the options are getting faster and things could change even very quickly; therefore, anticipate a decision that in the future could have different and positive developments in my opinion represents the denial of medicine considered as science that progresses and always provides new therapeutic options. Then there is the node of nutrition and hydration, considered as medical acts and introduced in the context of informed consent. These practices are to be considered as health treatments and can therefore be suspended on request. In such a case, the doctor shall indicate to the patient, if the patient agrees, and to his family members the consequences of such decisions and possible alternatives. In short, let's introduce a rule that can be some kind of omissive euthanasia. In this case, we omit the administration of water, air and food, caused by the omission of life-saving therapy. The penal code establishes the crime of murder of the consentor and the aid of suicide. In this case, we make the doctor not punishable and, therefore, we derogate from a law that applies to all. Even from the semantic point of view, the early statements have an indicative value, the provisions, as Senator Centinario said well, are binding and the doctor should take them into account when prescribing the therapies. Well, when, in cases of doubt or conflict, the magistrate comes into play, we have all lost. I say this clearly: I am opposed to cases of aggressive therapy, because a person who grows in intensive care for ten years is not acceptable today, when it is so difficult to find a bed in intensive care, but I am also opposed to euthanasia and the judge will not be the best actor to distinguish between the two hypotheses. Alliance of care, right to life, but also attention to the speech of guardians, support administrators, those who decide for children, attention to preventing abuse. I just remember that the support administrator is a figure appointed by the judge to assist those who are unable, even partial or temporary, to provide for their own interests and, therefore, to assess the possibility of ending their lives in advance. I conclude by quoting Thomas Jefferson, the third historian President of the United States, who claimed that caring for the lives and happiness of men, and not their destruction, is the only legitimate objective of good governance. What does this government conclude with? Not with a hymn to life. Here I can think of the film of Troisi, "We just have to cry," and at the intimation: "Remember that you have to die." Now I'm gonna write it down. This is a very unfortunate way of concluding a parliamentary term. A legislature in which so many things we could do have not been done; in which we repeated redundant laws: on some issues we have intervened so many times to ensure that the legislation is uneven and often contradictory. Really important things, though, we didn't know how to do them. There is a logic in all this: first the basics, the structures and then the details. That's what happened. Let's hope for the future.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u83	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u84	Madam President, I have long considered the opportunity to speak in general debate on such a sensitive subject, which is the responsibility of the legislator and which, at last, arrives here in the Chamber, in the Senate, without wasting an opportunity to intervene. I would like each of us to be aware of the delicacy of the matter we are dealing with, that each of us should abandon the idea of linking this debate to an approach that was not secular, that each of us should be inspired only by the responsibility, which a legislator has, to lay down certain rules to a subject and to such a delicate world. I say that too, as many people have done, and I find a reason to declare it. My friend Luigi Manconi will not want me, I say this as a Catholic believer, as well as many have declared themselves in this Assembly in their speeches, but manifesting some positions for me too little Catholic and perhaps more inspired by a logic of propaganda. I believe that the delicacy of this issue requires a delicate and careful approach, which allows us to deal with the subject with the delicacy that is due to the issue of the rights of people, from the weakest, to ethical issues, of bioethics and of the end of life. In this debate, however, we must also re-establish a responsible approach and show maximum respect for some of the truths that the subject refers to. I say this without any filter; I believe that the text today to our attention is not only perfectly consistent with the constitutional dictation of Article 32, with everything that follows from it for jurisprudence and scientific literature, but it also maintains a substance and a reason for usefulness. In fact, we have the duty, as legislators, to take the issue away from all the darkness in which it is usually placed and from everything that derives from ambiguity and darkness and accompanies such a delicate problem, precisely because it is not regulated. I call for an extraordinary effort of truth because here, yesterday and today, I have heard too many indications that I consider dangerous, misleading, but also offensive beyond any limit. They were considered equivalent to the practice of reducing someone to subalternity by removing bread and water from the suspension of artificial nutrition and hydration. Even more than once it has asserted itself, in a way a little too superficial - I say it with all due respect - to eliminate a child or decide to leave him there, alone or giving him bread and water. I don't think that's true, it's not scientifically true. We cannot once again come to the idea that the political debate will replace what science claims. And then I believe that taking away bread and water from someone hides the will to ignore that artificial nutrition and hydration are health treatments that respond to specific medical protocols and that belong entirely to a medical practice. This is constantly confirmed not only by the scientific literature, but also by the indications that have come - many, too many times, and that politics cannot fail to listen - in recent years by the associations of doctors who have as their specific medical and scientific competence the issues of artificial nutrition and hydration. We are talking about therapies, medical and health treatments that, by chance, are applied by specialized health professionals. Therefore, if we set this principle, as Senator Manconi rightly said yesterday, we must try to address the heart of the main issue: the therapeutic pact, the alliance often recalled in the interventions. I am referring to an extremely sensitive and sensitive aspect that must always be put at the centre of the patient's care activity. [[Recalls of the President]] Madam President, I would like a minute more time to complete my speech. In order to do this, we must also analyze the moment when that alliance, that covenant, is no longer effective and is no longer useful to the main objective, which remains that of a better and more dignified condition of the sick. We must try to think that there is a long and complex medical, health, human and family relationship path, at the end of which the sick person can reach a terminal point, in which that pact - for the most diverse reasons, but all medical - no longer works. Then comes to mind, at that point, the ethical profile of this topic, which must lead us to ask only one question: who decides for him? Surely it is obvious that it would be trivial to imagine that that decision is the result of a moment of unreasonable disappointment or depression. That decision always comes from a complex pattern of human, medical and family relationships. But we have to ask ourselves who decides for him. On this subject I want to end with a provocation: even with respect to the minor, if the principle were valid that those who exercise parental authority have no possibility to decide, even in this case, in a relationship with the medical team and with those who accompany the minor in a path of care and therapy, then we should embrace the principle that for the minor we cannot even decide to approach him to a religion or to a practice of daily life. We therefore recover the sense of a debate on this subject, we do not politically stand up, as we have done too many times, because I believe that we have the historical opportunity to address this topic and to legislate, trying to make a further useful contribution to this legislature, which I too do not consider bankrupt: we have approved so many good laws, then time will tell us whether or not they have improved the quality of life of the Italians. However, we have a duty to legislate and I hope that this obstructive practice will be abandoned. I will end with a quote. Often people are mentioned who are no longer there, but I want to quote Emma Bonino, because a few days ago, at Palazzo Giustiniani, talking about Luca Coscioni and other problems, he said something that made me shudder: the theme of human rights is really understood when those rights are lived on one's own skin and, in that case, there is an urgent need to regulate them. I therefore hope that this House will overcome this time of obstruction and allow us to decide on the text that comes from the Chamber of Deputies and that - certainly not for the first time - we are called to dismiss as it is. We have done so for so many laws, including the electoral law and I do not want those who, on that very occasion - I am referring to the colleagues of the League - strongly supported the adoption of that measure, saying that it should not have been changed. [[Applause from Senator Borioli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u85	Colleagues, we learned a few minutes ago that there was a very serious act of intimidation by a group of militants of Forza Nuova against the newspaper and journalists of the daily newspaper "La Repubblica". They were attacked in front of their headquarters, for the information work they carry out on some themes, which are those of our daily life. I believe that this cannot be accepted and that it must be strongly stigmatized. The Presidency therefore considers that it must express its personal solidarity with the newspaper and the journalists of the daily newspaper 'La Repubblica', who carry out their work freely. [[Applause]] I hope that these acts will not be supported by any of the political forces present in this Parliament, nor by those which face our political and parliamentary life, especially with a view to a demanding electoral campaign. I wanted to express the senate's closeness to the information operators.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u86	Madam President, I will give the text of my speech to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting, not without making a few reports. I think, with good reason, that the times are definitely ripe for today, even in the Senate, to start this debate, which I believe is useful and profitable, on these very important issues, of great human, ethical and moral impact. I just wanted to point out that I have addressed the issue of the distribution of hospital drugs at a territorial level, in particular, in my speech, which remains unresolved. Essentially, there must be absolute guarantee of the homeliness of care. In some areas there are difficulties in providing supplies. The reasons adopted in some health companies refer to Articles 92, 93 and 94 of Legislative Decree No 219 of 2006. In this regard, the terminal patient can only benefit from hospital care, but there is a need for him to benefit from palliative care at home. As I said at the beginning, I attach my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u87	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u88	Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I strongly support the President's view of acts of violence which restrict the freedom of information and the autonomy of information. These are acts that are a little 'the mirror of the times and to which we must oppose all our strongest and most determined opposition. I have the feeling, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, that the parliamentary term is worse than it has begun and I say this with deep bitterness, that there is a middle line between the proposition of 5 000 or 6 000 amendments on such an important subject, which certainly deserves to be amended, and the surrender of the speeches by many colleagues from the majority forces who, of course, are in a hurry to conclude the work by betraying, as it were, the important and fundamental function that is taking place in this House. In fact, it is precisely from the quality of the comparison, through the discussion of perhaps different, opposing, profoundly divergent thesis that a thought matures, that evolves awareness, that affirms a principle. The theme is one of the most delicate ones with respect to which the Italian Management Group has left freedom of vote, precisely in the conviction that this bill addresses ethical issues that pertain to the sensitivity of each and, as such, deserve not to be approved within the rigid vision of a movement and a party. However, it must be borne in mind that the issue of the legislative process is absolutely the least virtuous. The need to approve the measure as it has come to us from the House is a constraint on those who, like us, have proposed a small number of amendments and on that small number of amendments they would have liked to have dealt with. I refer in particular to the amendments relating to the introduction of law in clear, precise and determined terms of the freedom of conscience of the doctor. I refer to the need to recover the first value of the advance declaration of treatment, instead of the provision, since the binding aspect of the latter conflict with the principles of freedom and autonomy of the person who issues it and of who must implement it. Then there are fundamental aspects that revolve around the controversial issue of hydration and nutrition, which has led and leads, even scientific societies, to very often divergent positions in relation to whether or not they are health treatments. As far as I am concerned, the principle of the unwillingness of human life is the central element, which I consider to be called into question and strongly prejudiced, as it is put in black and white. I refer to Article 1, paragraph 5, which states that the patient can express the renunciation or refusal of health treatments necessary for his or her survival. So, as well as affecting the fundamental principles of medical ethics, as I will say in a few minutes, I think of other goods considered unavailable: freedom, for example, but also the same protection of health. In recent months we have been committed, precisely in this Assembly, to deepen, and then to convert into law, the decree-law that made various vaccines compulsory. We have provided for compulsory vaccination for children as a prerequisite for their enrolment in school, precisely in the name of the social value of the health of everyone and of everyone, in the conviction that collective health can be protected if the health of the individual is protected. Do we want to talk about other things far less important than life's? I am thinking, for example, of compulsory holidays. Holidays have to be done, period. Holidays are unavailable, while human life is available. From this to the forthcoming availability I fear that the pace will be short. Paradox? I don't know. All I know is that the principle of the unwillingness of life is for me, and for my sensitivity as a Catholic who has a secular interpretation of his function as a representative of the people, a fundamental aspect. In fact, in my opinion, this shift from the good available to the good available is not as innocent as you would like us to believe. The consequences could even be devastating and undermine those principles of social cohesion that we have been able to build in the course of our civilization. This measure has different visions than I consider to be a priority. I am not convinced by the anthropological vision of life, an individualistic vision that pretends to ignore the social nature of the human being, to say it with Aristotle, and raises self-determination to absolute religion, while, in reality, it lends its side - in fact - to the prevarication of the weaker and helpless people, favoring the nihilistic conviction that it is better to die and annihilate, rather than entrusting oneself to the State, which is not always able to make you heal and give you the necessary assistance you would need. This is the reference to Law No 38 of 2010, to palliative care, to the insufficient application of those rules, which we approved in the last parliamentary term, which represented a substantial step forward in our legislation, but which have not yet been a step forward in terms of implementation in the territories. The anticipated treatment arrangements, as planned, pave the way for euthanasia, in my opinion, to assisted suicide, because they do not sufficiently preserve citizens from fear of being left alone in the face of the disease and instill the doubt that therapeutic aggression is the practice. But do we really think that what's at stake is therapeutic behavior? The written rules for children and those who are incapable, for example, whose destiny is entrusted to third parties, allow in fact, by legislative means, the spread of that culture of waste, so if you are not able to produce and be self-sufficient and self-sufficient, you are only a burden for society and, therefore, physical exclusion is the way to solve the problem. Euthanasia understood almost as a prize, as therapy, as recognition of the right to the dignity of death, without thinking about what such a distorted vision could entail in terms of the dignity of life, the dignity of disability and disease. As a confirmation of this, artificial nutrition and hydration represent health treatments. It is evident that discrimination is the quality of life, which becomes decisive for survival. But are we really willing to believe that nutrition and hydration, although practiced in different ways through artificial devices, are forms of health treatment? I have listened to many scientific societies that think differently from my colleague Stefano: nutrition and hydration do not lose their essence, even when the means of their implementation follow a non-ordinary administration. It should be added that the interruption of hydration and nutrition leads to death in an incredible condition of suffering, so much so that the possibility of so-called deep sedation is foreseen. In this way, the suspension or interruption of nutrition and hydration obliges the doctor, as a result, to contribute actively to the death of the patient with an act that becomes, in fact, active euthanasia, in spite of Hippocrates and centuries of history that have marked the evolution of the medical sciences, not only from the scientific point of view but also from the human point of view. The central point of the very delicate question on which, in truth, it has been debated for years, is all in the answer to one question: to what extent can a person's life be considered a good available? A question that has gone far beyond the initial theme that had generated it, that is, whether food and hydration were basically a vital sustenance or a health treatment and, therefore, configurable as therapeutic aggressiveness. It is, in fact, on life as a good available and non-negotiable that there is a gap between those who believe that everyone, in the name of the sacred and inviolable principle of freedom, can make their own existence what they consider most useful, and those who, on the contrary, believe that the absolute freedom to dispose of themselves is objectively opposed to the principles and rules of civil and social living, and therefore not admissible. I do not hide from feeling a certain discomfort when, instead of confronting us on arguments opposing position to position, reasoning to reasoning, there are those who consider prejudiced the conviction that I have set out as the result of a confessional and fidelistic dogmatism. The principle of the unwillingness of life is not only supported by theological-confessional arguments, but also by strong and well-established secular-rational arguments, to whose valuable heritage I wanted to draw to express my thoughts, which I have expressed several times in the Health Commission and which, as I said earlier, leads to anthropological assessments that are fundamental in the writing of a text of law that should be amended in many parts; especially as DAT are placed, in a way absolutely contrary to the principle of free and informed consent; on the contrary, they run counter to informed consent, already made quite slippery by a written form and a bureaucratic obligation that is not easy at all. The provisions, which also exceed in language, as well as in substance, the original wording of "declarations" allow a human being to dispose in advance of his own death, not of his own life, in anticipation of a possible future, by its uncertain and unpredictable nature in its clinical evolution, without leaving any choice to the doctor except the binding observance of the will expressed in good time, when he was in good health. Yet common sense would suggest that they are considered as guidance, not binding on the physician, who is almost obliged to take the road of administering death, rather than being urged to find and provide the best medical and human care. Conscious objection is not even contemplated and I dare not think about what and how many disputes would open up if the doctor consciously decides that the clinical situation does not allow the patient to carry out the will expressed in the statements. Mr President, I would ask you to hand over the written text of my speech for the benefit of the Report and I make this final statement by telling everyone that, sometimes coming to promote, under the persuasive spoils of pietas, the cause of the right to dispose of one's own existence, thus opening the door to a nihilistic drift, it will be useful to remember that the level of our civilization, even in terms of quality, is undoubtedly the ground of which we have been heirs on a verse, but of which we are the protagonists today. It is only possible through a good quality of legislative production to make sure that the level of our civilization can be left intact in terms of value to those who come after us, otherwise the concept of life as available would make us go back in a distorted vision, as it seems it should happen from the parts of the Tarpea cliff. On this point, I did not feel that I was registering against convincing arguments. I believe that the legislator must give answers, even more so, to issues of great complexity that affect the conscience and sensitivity of each one in a different way. But from the text fired by the House in 2011 and then stranded right here in the Senate, to the text we are discussing today there is, in my opinion, a substantial step towards the legitimacy of something that should not happen. I believe we must not lose sight of the fact that we are not islands, but communities, each linked to the other by humanity itself, full of weaknesses and imperfections, which are then our strength and our perfection. Ignoring him would mean condemning humanity to death. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, PPI, RI, SA)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u90	The Presidency shall authorise you to attach the text of your statement to the Report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u91	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u92	Madam President, representatives of the Government, the advance provision of treatment cannot be a bureaucratic declaration of treatment. The draft law before us, which aims to innovate on such a sensitive subject, seems to be. I would like to explain better why the subject certainly includes an ethical theme, but also the personal sensitivity of each of us. And to this issue politics is required to give an answer, as it is expected by a large number of people who look to the legislator hoping for rules that can keep up with the times, overcome a regulatory vacuum and go beyond the judgments of the judiciary that this regulatory vacuum has intended to fill. But, above all, politics is moved to give an answer to the broad movement of opinion that makes the choice of assisted suicide appear as the end of all evils. Among other things, this is a typical subject on which a political movement normally leaves - as they say - freedom of conscience to its Members. But freedom of conscience must be based, itself, also on elements of knowledge and awareness. Reading the draft law we realize that there are different aspects that cannot be shared, because in the text they are written badly or because they follow principles that are just not acceptable. It is in particular the word "sharing" that binds the trust relationship between the doctor and the patient. In the absence of a relationship of sharing between the treating physician and the patient undergoing treatment, it remains difficult to understand how, when the most important decision is to be made, that of stopping the health treatment, a cold bureaucratic act may prevail, a declaration signed ex ante, compared to the judgment of those who have conducted the medical care up to that time. This provision could have been signed many years before and perhaps, in the meantime, who signed that provision might have changed his mind, without remembering to change that notary act that certifies his will in the matter of health treatment. From the sharing of care it should begin every path that leads to the subscription of the advance treatment arrangement, but only after a common path, that puts the patient and the doctor on the same level. Unfortunately, the patient's will prevails in this text, even against any medical logic and even against any new scientific evidence. DAT therefore becomes only a decision to die, even where, on the contrary, the patient may still have room for improvement, where there may be reasons to continue to be treated. Pope Francis himself says so and I marked the phrase: To defend human life, especially when it is wounded by illness, is a commitment of love that God entrusts to every man and let alone entrusts it in a special way to the treating physician. Therefore, while respecting the patient's free determination, it is necessary that he and his doctor share a credible course of therapy as far as possible. Even on the terms it has been played a lot, allow me, changing the initial acronym of advance declaration of treatment in advance disposition of treatment, giving now to the end an unavoidable character, that initially did not have. The entire bill builds its own ratio on the principle of self-determination. This is a fair principle, according to which the person to decide what care she considers appropriate for herself. And this principle of self-determination - which is also valid in many other social contexts and in various other regulatory areas - where applied to the relationship between the doctor and the patient, unfortunately arrives, immediately, to the provision of early treatment. Such decision-making autonomy in the patient, however, explicitly ends up crushing every possible judgment of the doctor, mortifying beyond measure the professionalism and experience, but also completely humiliates the assessment of family members on which cares may be most appropriate for their spouse. On the contrary, the study and programming of the type of health treatment must be the basis of the path shared between the doctor, the patient and his family. It is only through this overall path that we can reach the provision of informed consent, but nevertheless after having consciously evaluated a possible therapy and I said a therapy, not every therapy. Who, in fact, like myself, is also a doctor, remembers how he behaved as a young graduate in medicine and how he was animated by that impulse to do everything to make the patient survive, even trying to "animate the dead" or at least those subjects for which he seemed to be extinguished all hope of resuscitation. It is a state of mind that obviously goes down as the doctor's age grows, giving way to greater professional awareness of what to do and the health procedures to follow. I wanted to clarify it precisely in order to clear the field from the idea that we can be in favour of any form of therapeutic aggression, today rejected by the medical class but also by scientific societies and also by the Church itself. Someone, in the course of the hearings in the Health Commission - which must be commended to President De Biasi, because they were very punctual and instructive, wherever they came from - spoke of a therapeutic alliance. Well, I think it's hard to find a better definition to make the idea of a patient and a doctor confronting each other in the search for the patient's exclusive good. Obviously, the doctor must be able to put in place all his humanity and his professional career. And the patient has from his time, which becomes his most important advisor as it allows him to confront those who care by making him aware of the path that can be followed for the therapies that affect his own pathology. Here is that at the end of that path and that alliance - and not at the beginning, or perhaps many years before and unconsciously - the patient can give that informed consent that will have a more fundamental and conscious value. Otherwise that consent given ends up being a signature at the bottom of a bureaucratic declaration detached from reality. A person of common sense who reads the bill - as it is written - seems absurd that the patient, even before knowing his or her state of health or disease, may decide to refuse any medical or diagnostic treatment. Also because the same text in our examination contradicts itself where it provides for a shared planning of treatment between the patient, the doctor and the health team, compared to the evolution of the consequences of a chronic and crippling pathology or characterized by unstoppable evolution with inauspicious prognosis. But the prediction of the planning of the cures is placed, chronologically, in the article following that which provides for the advance provision of treatment, where even those who sign should foresee a possible future inability to self-determine themselves, expressing consent or refusal with respect to diagnostic investigations or therapeutic choices and to individual health treatments. I'm running out of time. I thought I'd take less space in my show. I would ask that the remaining part of my speech be appended to the Minutes of the sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). What I am interested to know, in conclusion, is that we are confident, although we are not deluded, that this House can amend the text. We would all like to share the same because we believe that, like all the things that are proposed, there are also absolutely positive elements. This is something we hope for, although, I repeat, there are very few hopes. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u93	We greet and welcome the members of the European law students' association (ELSA) of Benevento, who follow our work in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me take a premise. Neither I personally nor the party in which I am a soldier have ever been against the fact that there may be a law in our country that regulates the subject of informed consent. On the contrary, I would like to remind you that a fellow Member of the People's Alternative, both in the past legislature and in this, had and has presented a draft law and has made a strong commitment so that there can be a law that addresses the issue of informed consent and the anticipated provisions of treatment, if the subject is not in conditions of conscience. However - and this is a first fundamental reason for dissent with respect to the current draft law we are discussing - the operation we proposed was not at all instrumental, it did not alternatively place the patient's freedom to decide in advance what treatment to undergo and the role of the doctor; it did not alternatively place the difficult choice of the patient with the equally difficult choice and role of the family. In our view the subject must be addressed in the capacity to bring ever closer to the difficult task of the patient with that of the doctor and the family. In short, we must always bear in mind that man is not a monad and is not condemned to loneliness. Loneliness is a very painful state of life, not desirable to anyone, and we must work to overcome it. We must therefore always, in this case too - and, I would like to say, especially in this case so extreme of closeness to death - insist on building a strong alliance and a strong agreement between the different subjects. Hence our critical remarks and our amendments. Just in the direction I intended at the beginning, to be able to give Italy a law that is acceptable, we have proposed amendments and we very much hope that the Senate Assembly can reflect on them and discuss them and that we can vote on them. Coming to the examination of the proposal for a law, which is also made in terms of points, it moves, precisely in the first point, from a very great contradiction that is emphasized precisely in the fundamental principle that this law, in words, says to be inspired. Article 1 expressly and solemnly states that the life and health of the individual must be protected. Therefore, the object of the law - the unsuspecting reader expects - will be to protect the life and health of the individual, but - alas - in subsequent articles this contradiction explodes dramatically. The object no longer becomes the protection of the health and life of the individual, but it is exactly the opposite: we discuss how to end the life of the person. It is put at the center not the right to life, to a dignified life of the person, but an alleged right - which in my humble opinion right is not, because it is a right that does not exist, there is and is not contemplated in any text - to death. Colleagues, there is the right to the dignity of life, there is the right to be accompanied with dignity in the most difficult moments, in which the conclusion of life is also addressed. There is the right, as laid down in the Constitution, to decide whether to undergo or not to undergo treatment. There is the possibility or perhaps for someone also the duty to say no to therapeutic aggression and this possibility of the individual must be protected, always in communion with the family and with the doctor. But this law rather deals with this presumed right to die and also to die in very unworthy conditions: to die of hunger and thirst. It is a subject on which I will return and which has already been touched on by other colleagues, but which I believe should be central to our reflection. This is one of the fundamental reasons why I feel that I have to take a very critical position with regard to the draft law that we are considering, and for which, together with my group's colleagues and also other groups, we will try to make significant and important amendments at the voting stage. But this is also one of the points on which I would like to ask the advocates of the qua talis law, in the text that has been presented to us, a further reflection that leads them to agree with us on the need for some amending measures. On the other hand, colleagues in the House have worked, not always unhappyly, sometimes making important changes, but not enough, in my view. For example, colleagues in the House have worked on the role of the doctor, have made improvements over the previous text, but, in my opinion, these are not sufficient changes. As a Group of Popular Alternatives we have carried out a reflection, a fundamental battle, the meaning of which is to say that the freedom of the patient must be affirmed as an individual who determines himself in his dispositions, but there is also the duty not to break that fundamental alliance that sees in the doctor not so much and not only the one who plays the role of the notary, not only the one who plays the role of an official, indeed not at all the role of the official, but that of those who are called to a high and delicate task: to take care of the person, the sick, at a very difficult time when he approaches the terminal phase of his life. Here, then, the autonomy of the doctor must be better protected; also in this case I insist on the autonomy of the doctor in the alliance with the family and the sick. There is a particularly delicate role of the doctor: to check whether the arrangement that the individual had made before him today, no longer conscious, can and must be implemented. The doctor, in fact, may, at a certain time, in science and conscience, consider no longer possible to implement what the anticipated provisions had indicated to him. The dignity of the doctor to be able to take his own decision, with responsibility and autonomy, must be protected, even if in some cases he/she fails to comply (not always) with those anticipated provisions of treatment. This passage of the measure has been improved by the House of Deputies, but it can and must still be amended by us. It is necessary to reconsider the situation of the patient, always reminding us that we are not in front of us an isolated individual, only holder of rights and decisions, but we have before us a person inserted in the relational context of a care structure, with professional doctors inserted in a field of family, friendly and social relations. On the other hand, let us reflect, colleagues: in many controversy over malasanity, citizens do not complain very often that the sick person is abandoned in the lane, do they not have the comfort of a doctor who visits him regularly, who gives him indications about the state of improvement or worsening of his health? And do we want to abandon the sick to himself, just at the most difficult moment of his existence, when is or can he be faced with death? There is another point on which, in my opinion, the debate has remained far behind and which the Senate has the opportunity to resume, removing from it the character of an ideological flag that it has assumed. This is the subject that I have mentioned and which other colleagues have dealt with... President. Please conclude. Formigoni (AP-CpE-NCD). They told me 15 minutes. Did they make a mistake? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, that's ten. Formigoni (AP-CpE-NCD). How many have I gotten to? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Almost ten. Please, you still have a couple of minutes. Formigoni (AP-CpE-NCD). I was talking about the theme of hydration and nutrition, which cannot be, in honesty, in any way confused with a theme of care. To give food and drink to a person, even if in conditions of extreme fragility and even if not with the traditional tools, can never be considered a moment of care that can be interrupted at will. Finally, I want to talk - precisely because time prevents me from dealing further - about the issue, which is also fundamental in our vision of man and of law, of conscientious objection. We are in the presence of a bill that, in the opinion of many and certainly mine, opens to euthanasic and permissive hypotheses of so-called assisted suicide. However, for many doctors and health workers the bill under consideration has this imprint and therefore it is clear that the issue of conscientious objection must be absolutely recognized. The doctor and the health care professional cannot be confronted with the need to coart their conscience. According to a continuous tradition in Italian legislation, the possibility of conscientious objection has always been provided, which the Constitutional Court considers to be constitutionally mandatory, to protect a value and a right protected by the Constitution. These and other points, which I do not touch briefly, are - I insist - the subject of our amendments and I really hope that the presidency of the Senate will respect the right and duty of Members to examine them, discuss them and vote on them. [[Applause from Senators Pagano and Comrade]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u95	Senator Endrizzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u96	Madam President, the tenor of the debate in this House is very disconcerting, as is the fact that someone is offended by the fact that considerations are left to the record rather than to a poor public in numbers, but also in the ability to listen and respect the truth. I would like to say very clearly what this bill prescribes. Firstly, that no health treatment can be initiated or continued if there is no free and informed consent to the person concerned; this is in compliance with the Constitution. Secondly, it provides that any person of age who is capable of acting has the right to accept or refuse any diagnostic examination or health treatment indicated by the doctor for his or her disease or individual acts of treatment and that such treatment may in any case be refused or suspended. Thirdly, it is expected that the prohibition of therapeutic aggressiveness will be established and that the patient's right to abandon those therapies will be recognised. Fourthly, that every adult is capable of understanding and wanting, in anticipation of his own future inability to self-determine himself, can, through advance provisions of treatment, express his beliefs and preferences in the matter of health treatments. The freedom of the person is being sanctioned and on this side of the emicycle they should understand that, by rejecting this bill, they also refuse the right of a person to say that in case of inability to understand and want it will not be the family members and doctors who decide, but that there must be the widest use of available techniques if that person wishes to do so. This is freedom, for those of the House of Liberties who said they were part of it; otherwise we are in obscurantism and rejection, in the betrayal of individual freedom. Obviously - this is also provided for in the text - the DATs must be written and can be disregarded if they appear manifestly inconsistent or if in the meantime the conditions have changed and new therapies are added, not predictable at the time of their compilation. In the same written form the DATs are renewable, editable, revocable at any time and in case of emergency they can be modified or cancelled even by voice. This is opposed by the obscurantists. Also, I feel Sire that these would not be norms of civilization. What is civilization, then, if not belonging to a shared knowledge and thought? The Vikings were a civilization, but here we are saying that we want to reject what most people demand and demand. The word "civility" has the same root as "civis," citizen. I would therefore like to say to the League that 78.6 percent of the Venetians (governed by the League) are asking for this measure; they want it and have been waiting for it for a long time because it is a measure of civilization. I do not say this but the leaders of their party; then they agree, or they admit that we are faced with the usual League, that in local authorities "ravana" consent and in Rome betray it, as we have seen in many situations. [[Applause from Senators Cappelletti and Santangelo.]] Having said that, Madam President, I would like to ask you for permission to hand over the rest of my speech so that it is appended to the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u97	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u98	ENDRIZZI (M5S). I call on the citizens simply to read the law and to assess whether, in fact, it corresponds to their will: only to this. Because we citizens are, citizens will come back and here we bring their voice. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u99	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u100	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that I feel all the weight and responsibility, as a senator, in dealing with an issue which is in the depths of human existence and which, in some particular situations of vulnerability, interrogates, not only at the social level but also in humanity, in the welfare report. I, at this point, could use a language that I will not use: partisan language, the language that confuses politics with the party dimension, where the party dimension is confused and wants to synthesize also in the current dimension. I would like to use another language: the language of freedom, the language of responsibility. Of course, the patient's semantics are essentially oriented to treating words such as... health, therapy, cure, self-determination, help, accompaniment and assistance. The semantics of the doctor, on the other hand, are the ones that give voice to their skills and duties of their profession. In this case, as I said earlier, I must be a promoter and guarantor of the freedom and responsibility that flow from my exercise and that, as a result, can only be guided, from an exquisitely constitutional point of view, by Article 67 of the Constitution, where every member of Parliament, and of the Senate in particular, represents the nation and carries out its duties without a mandate. Therefore, I give voice to an expression of conscience and an ethic many times forgotten, the ethics of coexistence: that is to say of being not only with others (which would be a reductive intersubjectivity), but of being in a dimension of reciprocity, where I take charge of the other. I'm not for the other one, but I'm with the other one. I believe that this must also represent the most tangible manifestation of the vulnerability that characterizes our lives, which is based on a situation of ontological fragility, because we are all constitutively fragile and, in some phases of our lives, we are particularly vulnerable. Well, as a senator, as a doctor, all I can do is bow to human suffering and pain. And this also leads us to an argument that I would like to put to your attention as a sober contribution, a contribution that recalls the foundations of our action. It is a law, this, that we have continually called the law on the end of life, which requires a proper supplement of discernment. We have seen a very rich debate. The communication is enriched even more with phrases and expressions that - let me say it with much humility - are extremely confused, where the biological testament is confused with the early declarations and gives rise to the anticipated dispositions and the direction; a whole series of terminologies and words that, for the truth, in bioethics, as well as in our daily conversation, cannot be considered synonyms. Each word has its own weight and when we use it above all in a subject of biological order and, I would say more, of biopolitical order they must be used wisely, without confusion and without forgery: not in the popperian vision of the term but in a sad and proper forgery, where the terms are changed to give false messages as well. That is why I believe that the main orientation is that of a biopolitics, which is not the paradigm - typically modern - which states that humanitas is not a presupposition but a product of practice. For me, however, humanitas is the prerequisite for a reflection and a debate that must be constructive. I was just saying that the law on the end of life, which comes to us from the Chamber of Deputies, is fruit like all the laws of mediation; we can define it as an imperfect law, as many are the laws that can be defined as such. However, I must give rise to observations and a contribution that I believe are not and cannot be formal, but substantial in order to improve the law in the priority interest of the patient and suffering person (underline this aspect). All this, without the drifts of clinical aggression, which is very different and more all-inclusive than therapeutic behavior or abandonment, in the proportionality of treatments and treatments, in the accompaniment of solidarity and profoundly human. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we must ask ourselves a strong question: does the law really protect the patient in our examination? I believe that this is the fundamental question which we must answer precisely because we are legislators. I want to start from the positive bearing of some parts of the law that came to us from the Chamber, in particular the promotion and valorization of the relationship of care and trust between patient and doctor, in which the decision-making autonomy of the patient and the competence, professional autonomy and responsibility of the doctor are met, as established by the second paragraph of Article 1. Article 5 of the draft law then appropriately devotes a precise argument to the shared planning of care. So I start from two aspects that are positive and that I share within the law that came to us from the House. Yet - I put this point to your attention - there is a contradiction between these principles and the use of the so-called anticipated provisions; I would say a bioethical oxymoron. It is essential to note the substantial difference between disposition and declaration through a rational argument and not as many times apodittically affirmed for partisan needs or for reasons of anthropological opportunity. It is not, I said, a reductively semantic remark, a kind of love for the word, but I believe that behind these words there is a precise action to be pursued. With the declarations, in fact, a person with full capacity, expresses his/her will about the treatments to which he/she would wish or would not wish to be subjected if, in the course of an illness or due to sudden traumas, he/she were no longer able to arrange his/her consent or informed dissent. Thus expressed, the statements are the foundation for the alliance of medical-patient care to continue with full responsibility of health care in taking charge, without clinical or passive defensive medicine. On the other hand, the provisions are imperative in themselves and - I should like to stress - contract the medical-patient relationship. We are no longer talking about relationship in contractualization, but about doctor-patient relationship, which is quite another thing about an alliance. Well, if the report is rightly referred to in the text of the law, there can be no room for provisions. It is an easily evident sillogism. Rather, it is consistent to justify the use of pre-emptive declarations which, open to meeting and dialogue, ratify an equality of power, to which it counters an equality of responsibility. They are the synthesis of fundamental rights such as the inviolability of personal freedom and the protection of health. The provisions are in themselves binding, as we have said, although the law seeks to exempt the doctor from civil and criminal liability, if it considers that health treatments are contrary to the rules of law, professional ethics or good clinical-assistant practices. Thus, inevitably, in the conflict between the trustee and the doctor will require the intervention of the judge to protect, as required by the law. As a result, in the arrangements the patient and the doctor will never be moral friends, but they will always be moral strangers, to say it with Hugo Tristram Engelhardt Jr. It would be appropriate then, ladies and gentlemen, another ethical and procedural horizon, which would consistently combine the benefits of the care alliance with declarations - and not with the provisions - against the risks of contractualisation. With the dispositions the patient-trust-doctoral relationship, as I already anticipated, is between moral foreigners; instead, with the relationship, patient-trust-doctor become moral friends. With the declarations we move from the conflicting ego to the solidarity of us. This is widely recalled in some documents: we know that the early statements of treatment have a recognition and a solid foundation in the Oviedo Convention, in the code of medical ethics, in the opinions of the National Committee for Bioethics and in the new Charter of Health Care Workers. Advanced statements also protect the patient from any arbitrary behaviour by doctors, in case of loss, temporary or definitive, of the ability to understand and want; the care is updated, taking into account the progress of medicine and technology, provided proportionate and not futile, always respecting the reasonable will and legitimate interests of the patient, who does not lose his fundamental rights. I would also like to point out that in the law it is stated that the time of communication between doctor and patient constitutes a time of treatment. This is a pleasing statement to a brief assessment, but once again, from a substantive point of view, it is not the communication, but the report that constitutes the real time of care. The communication brings together an informed consensus, which is often a perplexed consensus. It is with the relationship and the covenant of care that informed consent becomes truly shared, where trust and conscience meet. It is from these considerations that also the theme of nutrition and artificial hydration can be evaluated with other interpretative keys. The draft law adopts an argument which I would refer to as objectionable, in order to classify them only as health treatments, as administration on a medical prescription of nutrients by means of devices. In this way, inevitably, the law ignores the multiplicity and variety of medical care situations. For the truth, therapies and treatments are confused, sufferings that are refractory to health treatments and suffering irreversibly refractory to health treatments in imminence of death. The presence of the adverb is irreversibly neutral and it is not neutral to speak of imminence of death, because the text also refers to suffering in general terms. It is a very different thing to talk about pain, compared to suffering, but when suffering is generally recalled, it can be traced back to the suffering of patients suffering from psychiatric problems, which would inevitably even achieve treatments, which could prelude the final exit, through continuous deep sedation and, in this situation, it is not cases of imminence of death. Another confusion that is made is that between chronic-degenerative diseases and pathologies with short-term inauspicious prognosis, in which the dimension of the short term is a period of time completely questionable and completely varied, that can last a few days, months, but also some years. A law, I believe, ladies and gentlemen, cannot and must not enter biomedical classifications, which in themselves are not definitive and conventional, which are constantly susceptible to change. It is the principle of self-determination that the law seeks, with great difficulty, to harmonize with others. I do not believe that with self-determination alone the fundamental covenant of care is protected, which, better to remember it once again, recognizes and protects the value of every person and his rights. I do not believe that by combining self-determination and provisions, which have now been signed for that time, the supreme interest and good of the patient can be achieved in the actuality of the clinical situation. Of course, someone could tell me that an end-of-life law has been required for many years. All I can do is confirm the legal opportunity. I agree, therefore, to legislate against clinical abuse and abandon, in favour of the proportionality of treatments, palliative care and pain therapies. Incidentally, in this sort of specious differentiation between what is a health treatment and what is not, I must say, and I would like to stress, that both palliative care and pain therapies need the presence of a highly professional health worker who also resorts to the administration of substances through paths that may also seem invasive and purely bioethic, we know that palliative care and pain therapies have an intrinsic lawfulness as they are intrinsically ethical. Just as I am in favor of deep sedation, however continuous, in imminence of death. Why? Because even in the imminence of death we know that situations are created in which even the administration of substances would be almost useless because they would fall into some sort of fierceness. So to legislate on this would require not codifying the very human last but to stop at the threshold of the human last where trust and conscience, meeting once again, need another vocabulary, another semantic. I would like to refer to a few other points which I believe are necessary. In the articulation of the bill, the informed consent and the anticipated provisions are placed almost on the same level; I think it is a completely improper combination. I would say that it is an almost unhappy combination because the Institute of Informed Consent has its own characteristics, as well as its own features has the Institute of DAT. I just want to bring back a few. The informed consent is free, conscious, current, revocable and conscious acceptance of the patient to undergo a medical act. It is clear that the provisions themselves can be free, they can be conscious, but they will never be feasible. Perhaps they will be reversible but surely they will not be aware in the decision, now by then, of what should be the best action. Of course, there would be a number of other points that I would like to bring to the attention of this House, but the time available is completely incongruous, although I have been given enough, to deal with matters of this importance and importance. I should like to find other words, but I believe that the only two words that can combine my reflection on the subject, which I put to the attention of the senators so that they can be used not invaluable but in order to open up to further reflection when we go to vote on the amendments, are freedom and responsibility. Madam President, I would ask you for an extension of 60 seconds. I have just heard that this is a challenge of civilization, a challenge where absolute freedom must be represented in a bill. I regret to say this but the challenges of civilization are based on challenges of humanity, which is quite different and substantial. The challenges of humanity require a just conjugation of what freedom is meant by responsibility. Colleagues and colleagues, Isaiah Berlin wrote a beautiful book, very small for the truth in which he spoke of two principles of freedom. This book declined positive freedom and negative freedom, claiming that negative freedom is when one is freed from any kind of social conditioning and any bond, so that one can be free to do what is considered most appropriate. I am sorry to have to say this, but if we wanted to decline our lives only as a freedom of the Lord, we would be, as Leibniz argued, monads: without doors and windows; we would be undisputed masters, each absolute dominus and intangible emperor, but deeply alone. The human dimension is instead that of the relationship, of the alliance, of the company, of solidarity and of the communitas. That freedom, in order to overcome this narrow perimeter, is then characterized by the responsibility with which one takes charge and takes care of another. Then it will be understood that there is no longer the freedom of the "freedom" and the freedom from the "freedom" but that there is another kind of freedom: freedom for another who will tell you "thank you" and, therefore, it will be freedom. [[Applause from the GAL Group (DI, GS, PPI, RI, SA) and Senators Giovanardi, Lepri and Silvestro. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u101	She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u102	Madam President, I would ask for permission to hand over the written text of my speech so that it is annexed to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u103	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u104	MATTESINI (PD). Let me just make two very quick points. What we are discussing and voting on is not a draft law of euthanasic drift, but a measure that virtuously holds together the value of life and the values of freedom and self-determination. It is a bill that gives concrete and precise answers to the requests for certainty and quality of care, as well as to the responsibility of everyone and to the fight against the loneliness that the disease generates in patients, but also in family members and healthcare professionals. The measure does all this through informed consent, therapeutic alliance, treatment planning, relationship and treatment time, which is finally defined as a fundamental element. We, as legislators, have a duty to abandon and overcome ideological approaches because we have a duty to guarantee dignity to people at the end of our lives. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u105	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bianco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u106	Madam President, first of all I would like to ask for permission to hand over the written text of my speech so that it is annexed to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u107	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u108	WHITE (PD). I would like to confine myself to a few very brief remarks to horas, which is nevertheless present in the text. I have listened with great respect to many considerations and I would like to leave a small note of bitterness where much has been said about the role of the doctor and health professionals, fearing a sort of reduction of roles reduced to mere notary or contractual act. It is not, of course, and I believe that - perhaps - the most questionable of these considerations is that it is thought that doctors and all health professionals are available to any ethical and professional adventure in the end-of-life territories. Perhaps - I say this very humbly - a preliminary and careful reading of the codes of ethics not only of doctors, but also of nurses and of all health professions and a little more respect for this extraordinary function of balance they exercise and for their activity of guaranteeing the right to health and life of all citizens could in some way have reduced some misunderstanding and prejudice. In any case, I am among those who believe that the bill in question has absolutely no vocation, no euthanasic drift. It's not in the spirit, it's not in the letter of this bill. I believe, indeed, that it offers a point of balance, certainly improved, certainly with some grey area, but a point of balance, as the Constitutional Court would say, between protected constitutional rights. Above all, the provision recalls all those who must take difficult choices to great moments of responsibility - certainly, also of freedom, of autonomy - with respect to something that, beyond divisions, of ethical, civil, political readings, profoundly unites us: the dignity of dying. This is what we all share and we all have to face up to. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u109	The general debate is closed. The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I warn you that the Conference of Leaders will be convened at 6 p.m. I therefore suspend the sitting which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders in order to define the continuation of our work. (The sitting was suspended at 5.52 p.m. and resumed at 18.52 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u110	The Conference of the Leaders met to define the continuation of the examination of the draft law on the advance provisions of treatment. In this regard, it was noted that the amendments were not included. Explanations of vote will take place on Thursday 14 December, starting at 11 a.m., and will follow the final vote. The Presidency will harmonise the timing of the speeches in order to comply with this timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u111	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-914.ana.u112	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 12 December, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.53.
