ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 18 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Budget Committee has not yet delivered its opinion on the draft law on the recognition of the Italian sign language and that the Justice Commission has not completed the examination of the draft law on the anti-mafia code. I would also like to inform you that the rapporteur, Mr Tomaselli, has asked to be able to anticipate the examination of the draft laws on space and aerospace policies. If there are no comments, so it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u7	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, without any obstructionist intention, but just because two, if not three, measures have been missed, I would ask you whether it is possible to suspend the sitting for ten or fifteen minutes so that we can all organize ourselves on a measure that arrives so quickly in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u8	I shall briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.37 a.m. and resumed at 9.45 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 1110, 1410 and 1544. The rapporteurs, Senators Pelino and Tomaselli, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Pelino.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u10	Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the draft law before us, in Article 1, is to ensure the coordination of space and aerospace policies and to promote the effectiveness of the initiatives of the Italian Space Agency, the ASI, by giving the President of the Council of Ministers the highest management, general political responsibility and coordination of the policies of the Ministries relating to space and aerospace programmes in the interest of the State. The text proposed and approved by the Senate Industry Commission started from three draft laws that posed the common need to reform the role of the Italian Space Agency, placing greater attention to the industrial development of the national space sector. To this end, the main associations in the space and aerospace sector, which represented their experience in this area, were heard in the Industry Commission, which this text has certainly taken into account. In this context, Article 1 gives the President of the Council of Ministers the task of governing and coordinating policies in the space and aerospace sectors. Article 2 stipulates that the President of the Council of Ministers shall make use of a special Committee for these tasks, composed of several Ministers who, in various ways, are competent in this field. The responsibilities of the Committee are listed in analytical form in paragraph 6 of the same Article 2. Article 3 sets out a set of rules and amendments to facilitate the coordination of space and aerospace policies, while Article 4 makes the necessary changes to the status of the ASI, the Italian Space Agency. Finally, Articles 5 and 6 provide for transitional and coordination provisions and the necessary repeals. The ASI, established almost thirty years ago, in 1988, has already been reordered by Legislative Decree No 128 of 2003. In May 2011 it saw a further reorganization as a result of Legislative Decree no. 213 of 2009. That decree, among other things, established the statutory autonomy of research bodies. Italy has therefore in good time equipped itself with the tools to govern a sector and to plan since 1988, through three-year plans, suitable tools to ensure the management and stability of the financing. We must point out that Italy has always been at the forefront of this sector, characterized by programmes of great technological and organizational complexity, with high costs, and of long-term duration, involving many international cooperation agreements. Today, these characteristics confront an increasingly difficult international economic environment. But I want to remind you that space is a very important sector, with important repercussions in the development of the economy and in the growth of our country. In general, every discovery generated by aerospace research creates innovation in the other related industrial sectors, which is realized in the production of useful objects in everyday life. I would just like to mention the effects that aerospace research has on the telecommunications and satellite navigation market, but also on applications in the field of Earth observation. Space should therefore be considered as a complex system for the overall knowledge, industrial sectors, applications and users involved. At the same time, it has always developed, through a large number of international cooperations and partnerships, both in the field of research and in the industrial sector that derives from it. It should be noted that the discipline that has governed the Italian Space Agency in recent years has always anticipated and facilitated the Agency's own activities in the field of space. In these years it has been entrusted to implement the plans approved by the Government and has interacted with the corresponding Agencies of other countries, having an institutional and functional role of research body, limit that does not help to make Italy fully grasp the international opportunities and the application potential of the sector. Through the ASI, Italy today has a very important role to play, in the international and European field, where the third country is stable for contribution and presence in the programmes of ESA, the European Space Agency. On the world stage, however, the collaboration with NASA, the National aeronautics and space administration, is now consolidated, as part of important scientific and interplanetary missions and especially for the participation in the development of the international space station (a high percentage of the inhabited modules and components have been realized by our national industry) and the missions of Italian astronauts. It should be remembered that the technological areas that represent the strengths of space in Italy are many: the development of telecommunications satellites, scientific satellites, radar observation satellites, inhabited pressurized modules and propulsion and launch systems. On average, over the years, around 75% of the investments managed by the ASI have concerned industrial and application projects, and this is due to the approvals of the three-year space plans, i.e. an appropriate government of the sector. Thanks to the continuous progress of its activities, increasingly directed to the applications of space, the Italian Space Agency itself has assumed over the years an institutional configuration that has led it to operate concrete and effective integrations with other sectors of public administration, with central and territorial public bodies. This evolution of the role of the ASI has been realized also thanks to the use of financial resources - such as the transfers of the administration of the Defense - complementary to those previewed in the ordinary budget of the agency, that - it must be remembered - is at the expense of the ordinary Fund for the national financing of the research institutions. The role of the Agency is also played through several subsidiaries or subsidiaries of which it is part, such as Altea (engineering and logistics services), CIRA (Italian Aerospace Research Consortium), e-Geos (a company for the promotion and development of the national and international market for commercial applications and services in the field of Earth observation), Elv spa (a company in the aerospace industry sector). This draft law, precisely for the whole subject matter and the interests involved, provides for the establishment of a special interministerial committee, which includes ten ministries, for their respective competences - from the Ministry of Economic Development (MISE), the Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR), the Ministry of Defence - at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, as a body of high political direction and supervision of the sector. In the same way a special delegation is assigned to a Secretary for Space and Aerospace Policies. In short, this is a whole of new rules, which we consider to be truly positive for the governance of the space sector and airspace and which we ask the Senate to approve. [[Applause from Senator Valdinosis]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u11	I call the rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister Bellanova, I will not go into the substance of the individual articles of the measure, since my colleague, Senator Pelino, has already done so. I will confine myself to a few reflections, given the importance of the measure, which we hope the Senate Assembly will be able to dismiss with broad consent, as happened in the Commission, as a testimony of a shared commitment, aimed at enhancing one of the most strategic sectors, in order to make even more competitive the Italy system and our economy. In fact, a measure is being examined by the Assembly which is the result of the work of synthesis of three draft laws: one at first signed by Senator Bocchino, who will certainly intervene in the general discussion and who has made an important contribution to our work, one at the first signature of Senator Pelino and another at the signature of his colleagues in the Democratic Party Group. It is a work that has seen us engaged in the past months with the Government, with the ministries concerned and with the main actors in the sector, to build what is the bet of the measure, that is the creation of an even more solid governance in an absolutely fundamental field. The measure is aimed at giving greater centrality to the space and aerospace policies of our country, which has always held a position of leadership at world level in the sector, representing one of the main "powers" - if we can say so - at both Community and global level. It is not necessary to mention the thousands and thousands of employees, the hundreds of companies, largely small and medium-sized, the more than two billion euros of turnover of the sector and its ability to generate, for each euro invested in research, more than five euros in terms of production capacity, from the industrial point of view, services and applications. However, the importance of this chain lies not only in the contribution it can make in terms of employment and added value, but also in the fact that it integrates and promotes the development of skills, processes and technologies vital to the economy as a whole and increasingly for the daily life of each of us. The efforts in the space and aerospace sector, in order to ensure the achievement of the strict standards required, lead to the development of technologies, which are increasingly being transferred to other production sectors. The needs of companies, in turn, represent an increasingly significant stimulus to the same research and development both in public and private research centres and in the universities of our country. The sector is one of the fundamental pieces in the context of the high technologies where Italian industry, universities and scientific community have managed to consolidate an important position in the international framework, developing extraordinary and important excellences. In a perspective of the country's growth, therefore, one cannot ignore the safeguarding and valorization of this sector that today represents a fundamental component for innovation in industry and in the national economic system, as well as in more traditional security and defence issues. The need to reorganize this sector stems, on the one hand, from the profound changes that have taken place in the last thirty years, never completely transposed at the legislative and regulatory level, and from the consequent different aims of the space sector that has become increasingly economical from politics, and, on the other hand, from the fact that space and aerospace activities involve multiple sectors under the competence of different ministries. With this bill - a synthesis of several draft laws, as Mrs Pelino said - we want to take note of the need for a multidisciplinary reading of space and aerospace issues - this is the real leap in quality - which looks at industry, defence, environment, research, transport, agriculture, regional vocations and Community policies, in order to ensure the most complete and effective coordination of the policies of the sector. The directing booth, which has been set up in the Council Presidency for two years and coordinated by Colonel Paolo Puri, has somewhat anticipated the daily work of some national and Community projects - and I quote, for example, the Galileo project - the same institutional model that we are about to become - we hope - a law as soon as possible. We therefore welcome this concrete application of the model that anticipates the legislative solution that will give a legislative framework to a positive practice that has led to important results - both institutional actors and representatives of the vast world of large and small enterprises, who have been able to enjoy this unified governance - both in the coordination of policies at national level, as well as in the convoying of enterprises, industrial systems and the various ministries involved in a single joint work. I shall not, as I said, recall the individual contents of the measure because Mr Pelino has already done so, and I therefore ask for permission to hand over the full text of the report so that it is annexed to the Minutes of the sitting. I will focus on the fundamental theme of the establishment of the interministerial committee, which will have to direct and support space and space policies, a unified governance and support the significant and increasingly successful effort from the point of view of the national interests that the Italian Space Agency itself is carrying out in recent years both in Italy and at Community and global level. Undoubtedly, the reform of this sector will have a positive impact on industry and small and medium-sized enterprises operating in the sector. In the new perspective, the main objectives of the Interministerial Committee are to define and encourage forms of synergy and cooperation in the field of space between research bodies, both national, Community and regional public administrations (often not coordinated between them) and the business world; to determine the research priorities and public investments of the sector in order to disseminate scientific and technological research applied to the space and aerospace sector and the development of innovative services, as well as to promote the development and competitiveness of the Italian production system and the technological enhancement of small and medium-sized enterprises. Finally, the Committee will promote the development of space and aerospace programmes involving national security aspects, with particular reference to civil and military security applications, including in conjunction with strategically relevant international and European programmes; it will also encourage the transfer of knowledge from the research sector to utility services, with regard to the environment, transport and telecommunications sectors. The continuity of the Italian Space Agency itself is, in fact, the presupposition and the indispensable cornerstone on which this work is based to ensure the continuation of the current space programmes and for an even clearer and more successful strategy for the development of the space industry in Italy. It is no coincidence that the ASI, also through its participation in the interministerial committee, will become a fundamental subject in terms of general governance of the system, acting as a link between the industrial and research system and all national and international institutions. Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I remember how the European Commission itself, in its communication of April 2011, defined the Union's own space strategy at the service of European citizens as a fundamental one. In this respect, three objectives were identified: the first of a social nature, since the welfare of European citizens depends on it - says the European Commission - in areas such as the environment, the fight against climate change, public and civil security, humanitarian and development aid, transport or the information society. The second objective concerns the economic impact, as space generates knowledge, new products and new forms of industrial cooperation and is therefore a driver of innovation, contributing to competitiveness, growth and job creation. Finally, there are strategic spillovers, as space serves to strengthen the Union's role as a player on the world stage and to contribute to its economic and political independence. There are, in these words of the European Commission communication of April 2011, perhaps the most significant aspects of this ambitious work that is taking place in our country in recent years and that today finds its institutional seal with this measure. In concluding, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this measure it is due to one of the most extraordinary excellences of our country building governance not only of primary importance from the political and institutional point of view, entrusting it to the main institutional political authority of the country, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, useful to give authority to those who work in this field and, at the same time, enhances the characteristic of fundamental factor for the growth and competitiveness of the entire Italy system, of a sector, that of space and airspace, that with legitimate ambition sees our country today in a position of global leadership both in research and in industry and in the application services. With these rules, the institutions, starting with Government and Parliament, colleagues, seal this strategic importance and lay the foundations for further and important successes of the Italian aerospace sector in the world. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Marino Luigi and Pelino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u13	Senator Tomaselli, the Presidency authorizes you to deliver the full text of your report. She is registered to speak Senator Valdinosis. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u14	Madam President, we are discussing and discussing a strategic issue for our country. The question of space and aerospace policies is extremely important, as my colleagues Mr Pelino and Mr Tomaselli have already pointed out in their reports. This bill aims to ensure the coordination of space and aerospace policies and the effectiveness of the initiatives of the Italian Space Agency; for this reason, it gives the President of the Council of Ministers the direction, responsibility for policy direction and coordination of the policies of the Ministries relating to space and aerospace programmes. This is in the interest of the State, because it is, as has been pointed out, a strategic sector. An interministerial committee will then be set up, a real directing booth, set up by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, which will have precise tasks of direction and coordination in space and aerospace matters. The participation of the various ministries concerned, many (almost all I would say), gives a sense of the interest and transversality of these policies: defence, internal, cultural goods and activities and tourism, agricultural food and forestry policies, education universities and research, economic development, infrastructure and transport, environment and protection of the territory and the sea, foreign affairs and international cooperation, economy and finance. Therefore, a variety of themes, all closely related to the guidelines and concrete actions that the Committee can direct towards these national themes and interests. There is therefore an awareness of the importance and strategicity of aerospace policies, which require not sporadic coordination and a system approach. The Committee, the directing chamber, will first have to define the government's orientations on space and aerospace, with reference to research, technological innovation and its impact on the productive field, as well as to the preparation of the strategic document of national space policy. The strategic document will then define the political strategy and the lines of financial intervention for the development of innovative industrial technologies and application services in favour of the economic growth of the country. Among the Committee's many tasks, I would like to mention some of them which seem particularly important to me: defining the research priorities and public investment in the sector, encouraging financial cooperation and synergies between public and private actors, in order to promote, develop and disseminate scientific and technological research applied to the space and aerospace sector and the development of innovative services; defining the framework of the financial resources available for the implementation of space and aerospace policies, pursuing the necessary synergies between public and private resources for the implementation of space and aerospace infrastructure. The question of synergies between public and private resources, which we see here in relation to the space and aerospace sector, I believe should also be a common thread in relation to other strategic sectors of our country and, in general, in the field of research. Another task that will be entrusted to the management booth is to promote, on the basis of the needs shared by the administrations concerned, programme agreements involving the financing by the various ministries concerned of application services, systems and space infrastructure. I would like to stress the fact that, when developing the strategic lines, the steering board will have to promote the development and technological development of small and medium-sized enterprises and promote the transfer of knowledge from the research sector to public utility services, with regard to the environment, transport and telecommunications sectors. The Interministerial Committee will then carry out important tasks in relation to the Italian Space Agency, as Senator Pelino has well recalled: in this field it will have tasks of direction and support for the definition of international agreements and in the relations with international space bodies, ensuring the coordination of the programs of the Agency with the activities of both central and peripheral administrations. The Agency was established with great intuition almost thirty years ago, in 1988, and in 2009 it was included by a legislative decree among the research agencies thus allowing it to operate in the scientific and industrial context, keeping pace with the aerospace agencies of other countries. There is also another very important issue in this measure: the overall assessment of the results obtained by the programmes, the return in strategic and economic terms, but also its impact on the social aspects. By 30 June each year, the Interministerial Committee for Space and Aerospace Research Policies will have to prepare a report to the Chambers explaining the activities and results of investments in space and aerospace. Parliament will thus have the opportunity and responsibility to assess and request the Government, if necessary, to re-orientate the policies and data guidelines. I would like to remind the Members of this House that when we address the issue of aerospace policies we must bear in mind that we are not just talking about the launches of satellites, such as Ariane and Vega, or about the Italian participation in the use of the International Space Station by our extraordinary astronauts, such as Samantha Cristoforetti. These events, known to the general public, are but the spearhead of a vast, articulated Italian experience and competence in this field, both in the field of research and in the industrial field. To be competitive there are two issues ahead, both crucial and absolutely complementary: the first is that of research; the second is that of the transfer of its results. We must be able to collect the extraordinary results of Italian research and to direct its drive to technological innovation in order to enhance it at an industrial level. Strategic is the theme of research. My Region, Emilia-Romagna, has understood this well, which has dealt with it with the realization of technopolies and the high-tech network. In my provincial reality, for example, a technopole with specific competence in the field of aerospace has been created which can provide a very advanced research in the field of aeronautical and satellite technologies. Even in the territories there are therefore great competences in research, just as there are small and medium-sized enterprises that in recent years have been able to innovate, managing to compete in an increasingly globalized and competitive market. It is therefore very important that the steering booth on aerospace policies also knows these realities, which can contribute significantly to the growth and development of Italian research and industry. It is in particular small and medium-sized enterprises that must be supported and helped to overcome the obstacles arising from their size that limit their ability to invest directly in research and innovation and to compete on international markets. This is why it is very important that research should be directed to their needs, those of Italian small and medium-sized enterprises. Italian industry is the fourth in Europe and the seventh in the world in this sector. Even in the years of the economic crisis, the Italian aerospace industry continued to grow. Suffice it to mention that since 2008 the turnover of the field has had an increment of 43 percent, with revenues for 13 billion euros, of which 7 billion deriving from the export. It is therefore a strategic sector in economic and employment terms, as the rapporteurs have pointed out in their illustration of the measure. A strategic sector also due to the extraordinary impact this sector has on other sectors: just remember that the Internet, this extraordinary invention and innovation of our world, derives precisely from aerospace research. The implications, therefore, of research in this field and its consequences are manifold. It is not by chance that we are witnessing, for example, the rapid development of high-level satellites. Our country has not only great possibilities and potential, but the concrete conditions to compete in a strategic sector that will change over the next few years the landscape of the national and international space sector, with technologies that will allow the radical reduction of costs and the improvement of the quality of service in many aspects of our daily life. These are, among other things, technological innovations which could be particularly suited to the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises with high technological content. With this direction booth, our national space and aerospace chain, already very important, will have even more opportunity to develop in a competitive way and to participate in an economic growth of our country very important in economic, employment and research terms. More generally, our country can continue to be among the most advanced in the international field. This is therefore a very important measure which we hope will be approved by both chambers quickly. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u15	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the students of the University of the Old Age of Sondrio, who - at the request of Senator Mauro Del Barba - are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u16	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u17	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, since the early 1960s space policy has had a considerable strategic value for our country and it is thanks to a basin of industrial, scientific and technological excellence that Italy is one of the main space powers of Europe. This was because, in the first place, Italian space activities have developed within the framework of agreements and collaborations between bodies and institutions such as the National Research Council, the University of Rome and the Air Force and, secondly, because the models of international cooperation, which have proved to be particularly effective, have produced excellent results, in particular the partners of the Italian Space Agency (ASI) have collaborated very much with the European Space Agency (ESA) and NASA itself. The same White Paper on International Security and Defence, presented in April 2015, identified the development of the space sector as a strategic importance that also requires specific capabilities in the study, research and implementation of components. In this global framework, space has its own characterization in the standards of international industry. Economic data are very fragmented and make systematic analysis of the socio-economic impact of the sector difficult. It is, however, true that the global value, from the calculations made, varies between 250 and 300 billion dollars, figures that would seem also relatively low, if compared with the 300 billion of Italian utilities. The GDP that refers to space and aerospace service is also and above all a source of indirect turnover for the many companies that are able to produce in this field. In all this is included the bill n. 1110 - I thank Senator Pelino here present - which aims to ensure the coordination of space and aerospace policies, as well as to promote the effectiveness of the initiatives of the Italian Space Agency. All this will take place with the assignment to the Head of Government of the High Directorate, of the general political responsibility and of the coordination of Ministers' policies relating to space and aerospace programmes in the interest of the State. It is also an interministerial committee with the task of defining the guidelines of the government, with reference also to research, technological innovation and the repercussions on the productive sector, and of promoting competitiveness in the Italian economic system, with particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, to which we hold a great deal. Small and medium-sized enterprises, in fact, together with the Italian industry, always through institutional investments, have continuously developed a tradition of high spatial technology, even propulsive. So important is space policy for our companies and for national GDP, which Europe itself has placed at the heart of the European 2020 strategy and the new industrial revolution. In this way, it recognised the cross-cutting strategic importance of space, seen as an instrument for the development of European security and defence policies on the one hand, and of environmental policies, transport, agriculture, rural development, fisheries and a whole range of other activities on the other. Space is no longer seen as an extraordinary field of research, but as an important economic opportunity. In this regard, we have tabled a number of amendments, 2.110 and 2.115, which aim to introduce mechanisms to further strengthen this strategic sector for the country. The fact that the political guidelines were established in accordance with European policies alone seemed a bit reductive to us; therefore, these amending proposals intend to recognize an area of manoeuvre for our country, allowing it to adopt choices that can better serve the national interest. The autonomy of the ASI in defining bilateral agreements is therefore a resource that allows Italy to have scientific and industrial opportunities that are better positioned towards European partners. We have the feeling that with the bill we are examining, we can maintain - and even increase - the capacity of our small and medium-sized enterprises to adapt to an ever-changing world with interesting turnover. Our production capacities are excellent and recognized worldwide, so this bill will only strengthen them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u18	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u19	Madam President, the adoption of the draft law in our examination would be a very important achievement, making coherent and organic sectoral interventions, albeit important, which in recent years have been developed by the Government and Parliament. The measure aims to develop the space and space sector, focusing on small and medium-sized enterprises and applied research and also makes the management of the Italian Space Agency clearer and more transparent. So new, great opportunities open up for the country system, as the two rapporteurs have rightly proposed, which I thank. For the Regions that, like Abruzzo, over the years have invested and defended the companies in the sector and that today present all the cards in order to contribute to the relaunch and the overall development of the field, this is definitely an opportunity not to be missed. The bill on space and aerospace policies approved by the Industry Commission today therefore proposes a very interesting development scenario. I would therefore like to thank all those who have contributed, through the valuable work of unification of texts, to bringing to the attention of this House a measure of great importance and importance. I believe that good work has been done and that the amendments tabled to this House can also make a considerable improvement to the text. The draft law before us provides for the allocation to the Presidency of the Council of the Directorate and the coordination of space and aerospace policies and, in particular, establishes an interministerial committee with the task of defining the government's guidelines on this matter. The Committee will also have the task of directing and supporting the Italian Space Agency in the definition of international agreements and relations with the various international bodies, also defining the framework of the financial resources available for the sector and will aim to promote the processes of internationalization of national capacities and the development and technological enhancement of small and medium-sized enterprises. The role of the Italian Space Agency (ASI) is also amplified and its competences are properly valued. The ASI, also through participation in the Interministerial Committee, will become a fundamental subject in terms of general governance of the system, acting as a link between the industrial and research system and all national and international institutions. I believe that the future of the whole space sector is also linked to international cooperation and above all to a European dimension of the space sector. The theme of space and space policies really represents today a great opportunity for the country system. This sector is based on interdisciplinary dynamics: from research to industrial policies and the whole world of applications. It is for this reason that the bill aims to give space policies governance as unified and integrated as possible. An important fact is also the definition of the framework of the financial resources available to the sector that needs significant investments. I would stress again that the ASI will also become a key player in terms of overall governance of the system through participation in the interministerial committee. It is well known that the future of the entire space sector is also linked to international cooperation and, above all, to a marked European dimension of the sector. The bill aims at coordinating space and aerospace policies with the establishment at Palazzo Chigi of an ad hoc interministerial committee, chaired by the President of the Council; also in this there is a clear qualitative leap. The purpose of the bill is stated in the first article, when it is argued that it is necessary to ensure the coordination of space and aerospace policies, and to promote the effectiveness of the initiatives of the Italian Space Agency. The President of the Council will identify the Undersecretary to the Presidency with delegation to space and aerospace policies that will be able to replace him in chairing the Committee composed of numerous and important Ministers. In relation to specific topics, representatives of other departments and public and private bodies may also be invited to the Committee's meetings. The Committee also endorses the National Space Policy Strategy Paper, coordinates the work of the ASI with the activities of the central and peripheral administrations, identifies the priority lines, defines the guidelines and, again, defines the framework of the financial resources available for the implementation of space and aerospace policies. To carry out its tasks, the Committee shall use the technical support of the ASI and any experts, working groups and study committees. The economic development of Italy therefore passes, as fully stated by the rapporteur Tomaselli, also for space. In October 2016 the space strategy for Europe was published. Some of the most important managing directors of the sector, I think of Donato Amoroso of Thales Alenia Space Italy, Luigi Pasquali of Telespazio and Giulio Ranzo of Avio, discussed it during an event, in which I had the opportunity to participate, which also saw the participation of the ministers Calenda and Faithful. In that context was also present the president of the ASI, Roberto Battiston, who made an important statement, in my opinion,: We can no longer reason in a linear perspective. Italy, through Altec, has signed a package of industrial agreements with Richard Branson for the construction in Italy of a spaceport from which to start ships for space tourism and scientific missions. Scenarios of extraordinary importance are opening up and the private sector is moving exponentially, especially overseas. We need to innovate, therefore, to use the skills and the thinking and foresight of so many of our young researchers who in our universities study and study issues of such great importance. They already do so in the United States, China and India, and we are no less, because our country, as was mentioned, is at the top of the rankings. Space is moving towards new dimensions. Since the 1950s, when the Russians launched the first satellite, the race to the new West has never ceased to go on. The new raw material of innovation is made of big data, and satellite ones represent an immense pool of opportunities, often not considered or exploited only partially. It is therefore necessary to invest in new skills capable of handling and processing data, giving research the right resources to provide industry with an evolutionary basis, which may be crucial in order not to lose pace with evolution. It is therefore not necessary to underestimate all this part of research and also business. In this context - today is the day when Trump is in Italy - we cannot forget NASA projects in this extravagant Trump era. In short, there are many opportunities not to be missed, and the bill in question places us in the dimension of not losing at least in the reorganization of governance and the places of decision. It is no coincidence that when the land shook in Abruzzo in 2009 and destroyed so much of my Province, hit important companies like Alenia Spazio, we all rolled up our sleeves. We couldn't lose her. Just four years after the earthquake that had destroyed the old plant and only two years after the laying of the stone of the new plant, Thales Alenia Space inaugurated in L'Aquila one of the safest and most modern factories in Europe. It is the symbol of an industrial revival and this extraordinary investment today allows more than three hundred young, competent engineers to look to the future. We are also organizing the 7th aerospace district in Italy. The draft law under consideration is therefore an ambitious plan for development, economic recovery and the creation of new work; in this way the territories will be able to organize and strengthen their potential and we will be able to make the whole sector more competitive and prone to the creation of new and advanced development. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u21	Madam President, I would not hesitate to call today 'historic' because it is the first time, in my memory, that this House is talking about space policy. It is precisely because of the strategic importance of this sector and because of the lack of Parliament in the debate on these issues that I would call it a historic day. My colleagues have already spoken about the importance of the aerospace industry, and I simply add that if we imagined at this moment, as if by magic, to shut down all satellites in orbit around our Planet, the transport and logistics system would collapse; the telecommunications system would collapse; our predictive capacity for catastrophic events, such as storms, tornadoes, climate change would fail. We must add, Madam President, that the sector is not just strategic for this, but there is more: economic studies in this area say that investment in space and aerospace research and development generates an extra social return of about 70%. Basically, for every million euros or dollars we invest in aerospace research and development, there is a 70% more return in other areas such as health, medicine, transport and computer science. This is in addition to the benefits that investment in research and development already brings in the field of knowledge. So today, Madam President, it is no longer enough just to say that space is a strategic sector, but we must say that investment in this sector creates jobs and helps to create that competitive and very high-level European economy that is not found in other sectors. Not only that: space policies give sovereign states the strategic tools needed to create national policies. So, Madam President, it is no coincidence that, to date, there are more and more countries launching satellites in orbit. For example, according to the 2014 data, there are more than 50 countries that have their own satellite in orbit and this number continues to grow. In 2013, 58 countries around the world invested more than 10 million euros in space and aerospace technologies. This figure has to be compared to the much lower number (only 37 countries instead of 58), relative to ten years before. Let's see, then, how this sector is exploding. This clearly shows us that having a space policy plays a strategic role at global level. It is important to maintain a firm foot in the aerospace field because this puts us in a position to drive technologies that, in turn, allow us to make strategic decisions for the national interests of our country. Just to give an idea of the type of investments made in this field, the United States invests $38.7 billion in their space program (it is always 2013 data that see an increase of 9 billion dollars compared to 2009). A considerable part of this expenditure, about 65%, is represented by civil expenditure, so military expenditure, contrary to other sectors, does not constitute the majority of expenditure in the sector, because out of about 75 billion dollars worldwide, 43.7 billion dollars are invested in the civil field, just to testify that technology is now of fundamental importance in all aspects of civil society. Speaking of civil spending, the United States is the country in the world that invests the most (45%), in the second place is the European Union. The European aerospace industry is of very high added value, an industry with very high innovation value, unlike other sectors. At present, at European level, this industry employs 35,700 people and has a total budget of 6.5 billion euros. Most of these expenditures are spent on institutional programmes rather than private programmes, so it is the States that, through the European Space Agency, commission satellites while the private market is still rather small compared to the institutional market. This shows, once again, the strategic value of the sector, which has been understood by the states that drive the market. As for the role of our country, Italy is one of the first space powers in the world. Our country was one of the first to launch a satellite in orbit. Think that in 1964 we already had a satellite in orbit, the San Marco satellite. Thanks to the tireless work of General Luigi Broglio we opened in 1967 a launch base in Kenya, in Malindi, which we still have, although it is no longer used to launch satellites but only to do telemetry of the same. Italy is still a world protagonist. I would like to remind you, for example, that just recently Avio had the contract to build the solid-state fuel engine for the new launcher Vega C and Ariane 6 of the European Space Agency: this is a great victory for Italian industry. I would also like to mention, in the field of the observation of the universe, the recent decision of the ESA administration to continue to finance the ExoMars 2016 mission and, above all, to finance the new ExoMars 2020 mission, which sees a participation by Italian majority and which will contribute to scientific advances regarding the Red Planet, Mars. Madam President, I began by saying that today is an historic day because Parliament is talking about aerospace. With this bill we have the opportunity to ensure that this is not the last time Parliament talks about space policies, which we have seen to be so important. However, from this point of view, I can only complain to the rapporteurs that, precisely among the three incardinated draft laws, the one I signed, which was the only one that provided for Parliament's involvement, in terms of a simple monitoring and control activity in the logic of balancing powers that must characterize the democratic bodies of our country, was not included in the basic text discussed in the Commission. I would like to address the rapporteurs through you, Madam President: this certainly represents a serious vulnus, which I believe we have a duty to debate and remedy in this House; if only because, Madam President, all the other European countries have already equipped themselves with stable parliamentary bodies, which contribute to the decision precisely in the field of monitoring and control of government activity. Clearly, the government has the right to decide on strategic spatial policy lines. All the other countries have now equipped themselves with stable bodies, both in the lower rooms and in the upper ones (in those countries that have them), which contribute to the debate on space policy. So much so that there is a European Parliamentary Conference on Space, in which Italy has participated in recent years. I took part in his meetings personally, but either personally or by comparing myself with my colleagues in the intergroup space, and I noted a step back in Italy from a parliamentary point of view compared to other countries: we do not have a parliamentary body that can present itself at that conference and sit at the tables to discuss the resolution that is being drawn up every year at that assembly. I would like to conclude my general speech by saying that this bill certainly has a great deal of merit - and then, when we discuss the amendments and in an explanation of vote, I will also go into the substance of the text - but for the time being we have failed to involve Parliament in space policy decisions. [[Applause from Senator Baptist.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u22	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u23	Madam President, we consider this bill to be a significant measure. In fact, it provides for the allocation to the Presidency of the Council of the Directorate for the Coordination of Space and Aerospace Policies and, in particular, establishes an Interministerial Committee with the task of defining the guidelines of the Government in this field, with reference also to research, technological innovation and the repercussions on the productive sector, and to promote the competitiveness of the Italian production system. The Committee will have the task of directing and supporting the Italian Space Agency in the definition of international agreements and relations with the various international bodies, also defining the framework of the financial resources available for the sector, pursuing the objective of promoting the processes of internationalization of national capacities and the development and technological enhancement of small and medium-sized enterprises. We are well aware that the role of the ASI is expanded and its competences are enhanced, including through participation in the Interministerial Committee, becoming a fundamental subject in terms of the overall governance of the system, with functions of linking the industrial and research system and all national and international institutions. Everything that goes under the name of aerospace has assumed a fundamental role at European and global level as a driver of development and chain of activities with high technological content, capable of producing innovation and generating catalyzing and fertilizing effects on many industrial areas. All major industrial countries regard aerospace as a strategic area in terms of economic value. The Italian aerospace industry now ranks as a fourth player in Europe and seventh in the world, with a turnover of almost 14 billion euros in 2014, according to the latest data provided by the Italian Federation of Aerospace, Defence and Security Companies (AIAD). They operate in the sector over 50,000 employees, with investment in research and development equal to 12% of the turnover, in line with the European average. As regards, in particular, space products and technologies, the Italian industry covers 14% of European activities, ranking third after Germany and France, with a couple of billion euros of turnover. According to data provided by ASI, as mentioned above, some fifty companies of a certain size operate in this sector, including the large groups Leonardo, Thales Alenia Space, Telespazio, Avio, Selex Galileo, as well as many small and "micro" dimensions. The employees are 5.000, considering only the great companies; between 8.000 and 9.000 including also the operating activities and connected logistics. I also want to claim the active role that we have played as the 5 Star Movement: finally the Italian Space Agency will be more transparent and free from recycled and condemned politicians. We have succeeded in having two important anti-party amendments adopted in the Commission. Amendment 3.5 provides that the Chairman and members of the Board of Directors and the Scientific and Technical Council of the ASI may not hold positions of government or elected political positions at any level, or positions or offices of representation in political parties. They are immediately replaced in the event of incompatibility which has occurred, serious violation of the duties inherent in the office, or in the case in which they return conviction, even with a judgment not passed in court for offences against the public administration. The second amendment adopted, namely amendment 3.6, stipulates that the Italian Space Agency is required to publish information on the overall work carried out on its institutional site in the appropriate section. (b) information on curricula and gross compensation received by managers, collaborators and consultants; (c) the criteria and arrangements for the allocation of works and supplies of any kind. Surely we would have liked something more, in the matter of choice and functions of the president of the ASI: according to the provision cited, the president could have chosen between persons of high scientific and managerial qualification, with a deep knowledge of the system of research in Italy and abroad and with many years experience in the management of public or private bodies operating in the field of research, introducing the requirement of recognized good repute, as provided, for example only, also for the members of the board of directors of RAI. Of course, we would also like regional industrial policies in space and aerospace to be taken into account, as has been pointed out by the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs on this measure. We would like to introduce the coordination of the programs also of the companies participated from the ASI, in order to guarantee a greater safeguard of centers like the Italian Consortium of aerospace research (CIRA). We would like to see the interministerial committee's tasks as a link between national space policies and regional industrial policies in the space and aerospace sectors, in order to ensure the financing of initiatives capable of ensuring short-, medium- and long-term impacts on the territory, thereby favouring a significant presence of the industrial system and research in the regional sphere. We would also like to see more emphasis on promoting the transfer of knowledge from the research sector to public utility services, with regard to the environment, transport and telecommunications sectors. We would like to promote the transfer of knowledge, especially in the field of forecasting and preventing natural disasters and the risks arising from human activity. We are not entirely convinced of certain ambiguities, such as those contained in Article 2, entitled "Institute and responsibilities of the Interministerial Committee for Space and Aerospace Research Policy" when it comes to the development of space and aerospace programmes involving national and dual security aspects, with particular reference to civil and military security applications, also in accordance with the strategically valid international and European programmes." In our opinion, this speech between civilian and military is too indistinguishable and ambiguous. We all know that the aerospace industry has the characteristics to be ascribed to the production activities that are fully located on a fully globalised market. No advanced country can help to feed its market demand, which knows no kind of limitation to geographical or cultural diffusion. These factors, together with the ownership of the sector to absorb technological innovation from a particularly wide range of engineering areas, and therefore from technology suppliers, could lead to the conclusion that the geographical location of production systems in an industry with a highly international profile is not relevant. On the contrary, we observe a strong concentration of the sector in a relatively small number of geographical areas, but we also see the emergence of organisations and systems for the development of aerospace industrial activities that include the joint participation of universities, businesses and institutions engaged in synergy to leverage local capacities in order to emerge in the global market. Space applications are useful to address some of the most important social challenges and can be used in different sectors, from environmental protection and monitoring, to agriculture, civil protection to human health and in many other contexts. These are the reasons why we want something more. We hope that some of these common sense statements will be incorporated in the examination of the amendments. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u24	He is registered to speak Senator Rossi Luciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u25	Madam President, the rapporteur, Mrs Pelino, and the rapporteur, Mr Tomaselli, have done a very valuable job and I think they would have deserved more attention. I have carefully followed their illustrations on the subject of the reorganization of space policy, which is directly dependent on the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. On the subject spontaneously on the territory have developed quite spontaneously excellences. I was preceded by several colleagues, including the senators of Emilia-Romagna and Abruzzo, who reported on their local realities. I carry the small contribution of Umbria where in the years now remote has developed a credible ability of investment, production and extraordinary technological innovation. In my opinion, it is worth stressing what this has meant, not only from the occupational point of view but also and above all from the cultural point of view in the national territory and, in a widespread way, in some regions. In our territory, attention has been paid to the excellence of universities, which would probably have been forced to go abroad or to find low-level occupations and, instead, have found an occupation of valuable cultural and professional significance. This is very important. It should also be pointed out that these companies, together with those at national level, none excluded, have determined the return to their homeland of brains that had gone abroad. This means that it is an area where we have worked well, where there is a national interest and, in fact, a development that goes far beyond the space system and towards research. When it comes to dual research, there is no doubt that there is talk of research in all fields and not just in the direction, for example, of the defence sector or other. As a result, I believe that the investments made require more resources. It is doing well, but it must be done even better because these investments lead to employment in a sector of excellence that places our country, as has been mentioned, in a very first-class role in the European and international context. There is no doubt that these excellences that the territories have been able to develop should be rewarded, followed and encouraged, and in this case, although with late attention, the Senate, and more generally Parliament, should pay attention to them. Let us move, then, firmly in this direction. I hope that there will be a broad sharing on this issue, demonstrating that these realities are not isolated but are adhered to, supported and - let me say - also protected by national policy, which must in fact assume this responsibility. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u27	Madam President, I believe that it is once again the South that has an interest in this bill being adopted. The Mezzogiorno has already suffered for decades from the lack of industrial policies resulting in the loss of competitiveness by the Italian system, but in particular with the dramas that the loss of competitiveness imposes on large sections of our population, particularly on the southern one, with tragic, dramatic loss of jobs. To this loss of jobs, of course, we must add a terrible degradation as regards the quality of life and the precariousness of social life in our community. The system so far had guaranteed to large and medium-sized urban realities, but also to rural villages, to have a perspective of life, even in terms of overcoming emergencies and atavistic backwardness and, therefore, also of potential ability to glimpse the future. Well, with this bill, the South and, in particular, the South's aerospace company are returning to hope. I say this because the aerospace poles of Campania and Puglia, particularly important and consolidated, would really find a hope in the reorganization and revisiting of the functions that this bill wants to give to the various actors that are included in the article of law, beginning with the institution of the Interministerial Committee. The southern aerospace industry should therefore look with confidence at this measure. A trust that, frankly, serves the country, because it revitalizes the fundamental ganglia on which the Italian aerospace industry system rests: the system of public and private research, the one that is within universities, research centres, public and private, as well as all the aeronautical system that has both military and civil value. Aerospace can be a strategic sector again, it can give strength to Italian scientific research. These could be considerations of good omen for the bill to be widely accepted in this Parliament. Everyone here has their cultural and political sensibilities, but they are all convergent so that we can finally make a positive contribution, in this context of the legislature, which is also made on that part of the country, which is now distrusted and which - alas - looks, yes, at Parliament but unfortunately in negative terms. These were the few considerations I wanted to make, also within the framework of the Gruppo Managemente Italia, which I belong to the Gruppo Grandi Autonomie e Libertà, and which I entrust to the reflection of my fellow Members. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u28	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u29	I call the rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u30	Madam President, I would like to speak briefly, not to reply but to reiterate to Mr Bocchino how much the work we have done has taken absolute account of all the draft laws and the collective effort that all the Groups have made in their work in the Commission. I hope that this will also be confirmed by the vote of the Assembly, in order to arrive at a more widely shared text on a measure that speaks to the country system and therefore, as such, transcends individual views of part. With regard to a specific point, which Mr Bocchino wanted to recall and which was the main element of his draft law, namely the establishment of an interparliamentary committee on space issues, he knows, because we have also discussed it a long time in the course of our work in the Commission, that we have judged that that type of institution (an interparliamentary commission) would run the risk of becoming a kind of superstructure that in some way risked conflicting with the competences we intended to assign to the interministerial committee (institutionalizing it), the highest political-institutional leadership of space and airspace policies in the Council Presidency. At the same time, if I may say so, it also risked conflicting with the powers that are already in the hands of the individual Chambers and Parliament as a whole. I am thinking, for example, of the Senate's standing committees, of the 10th Commission on industrial policies, of the 7th Commission on research and university issues or of the committees working on other issues, such as defence and so on. In short, there are already the institutions that can do the work that Mr Bocchino called for and that he obviously imagined could be summarized in this interparliamentary Committee (or Commission). These are the reasons; there was absolutely no idea of prevarication, on the contrary, the climate was so positive - as Senator Bocchino himself acknowledged - that today makes us write an important page in parliamentary work, of extraordinary attention - as Mr Bocchino and all the other colleagues in their speeches called, and I thank them for this - towards one of the sectors that really speaks Italian in the world and that can, more than others, represent an extraordinary boost for the competitiveness of the entire Italy system.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u31	I call the rapporteur, Senator Pelino.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u32	Madam President, in reply to Mr Bocchino, I would like to add to what my colleague Mr Tomaselli has already said, which, apart from his proposal for a law, which we have absolutely taken into account, is an area that goes on at a particular speed with regard to the aspect of the parliamentary committee. The reason why a law was made was precisely to give continuity over time. Now, since the Interministerial Committee already exists, under the auspices of the Presidency of the Council, we believe that an interparliamentary Commission in a certain way could have slowed down the timetable. Therefore, as we are faced with innovation, research and development, this is another reason why we thought we should not set up this interparliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u33	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u34	I am against Amendment 1,100, on which the Budget Committee has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u35	I am in agreement with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u38	Mr Pezzopane (PD). I withdraw amendment 1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u39	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u40	Madam President, space - as we have already said in general debate - is a strategic sector for our country and to ensure that the political guidelines are taken in accordance, not only with European policies but in full autonomy, so that our companies have a national interest, we have tabled amendment 2.101. On the other hand, with regard to amendments 2,110 and 2,115, in the examination of the draft law we have gained the conviction of some additional amendments to the text which aim to support the growth and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. That is the point of our amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u41	Madam President, I would like to briefly explain Amendments 2,103 and 2,08, both aimed at providing for links with regional industrial policies, which we have already called for in general discussion. Among other things, it is a proposal which comes from the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u42	Madam President, the task of directing, coordinating and directing the whole sector with this measure is assigned to the President of the Council, who, together with the interministerial committee set up, defines the political strategy and the lines of financial intervention, ending up controlling the Italian Space Agency, which would therefore lose much of the autonomy it enjoys today and which, in my opinion, it is very important to safeguard. I therefore believe that point (b) and consequently point (c) should be deleted from Article 2 (4) as provided for in amendments 2,104 and 2,15 in order not to frustrate the importance of the independent role of the Italian Space Agency and the important objectives that could be achieved by this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u43	Madam President, I would like to explain Amendment 2106 and, if you will allow, the agenda for the G2100 as well. The purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the interministerial committee on space and aerospace research policies, set up by the Presidency of the Council, ensures coordination of the programmes and activities of the ASI as well as of the companies participating in the ASI and thus also of the CIRA. As you know, the Italian Aerospace Research Consortium is a consortium for public-majority shares and is subject to the supervision of the MIUR, which has been entrusted with the task, pursuant to Law No 184 of 1989, of implementing the National Aerospace Research Programme. However, in recent years, the CIRA has suffered cuts that have significantly compromised research activities, and for this reason we believe it is essential to ensure its proper participation in order to have an ever greater exploitation of aerospace research. The Government will have to take every appropriate initiative to ensure this effective exploitation of the CIRA, which is realized, on the one hand, through the recognition of the necessary resources and, on the other, with the representativeness. 11:13 a.m. (Moronese follow-up). For this reason we have also presented the agenda G2.100, with which we intend to commit the Government to take every appropriate initiative aimed at ensuring the effective exploitation of the CIRA, through the allocation of additional human resources and tools for the management of the characteristic activities, and to guarantee an effective involvement of the CIRA as a participating company of the ASI in the coordination programming activities. It is therefore necessary for the Government to assume the responsibility to focus on research with concrete initiatives to support the development of the CIRA itself and also to guarantee opportunities to the workers in the research sector who are in a precarious situation. More human resources and more instrumental resources are the minimum necessary to ensure the survival of the CIRA. [[Applause from Senator Lezzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u44	Mr President, I would like to outline the amendments 2,107 and 2,19 which aim to introduce, within the framework of the decision on the financing of this Government Committee, also the provision of a compulsory programme for the financing of free research, the amount of which as a percentage of the total investment is set at 5%, essentially to protect free research, which is based on satellites and therefore on space activities, in complete analogy - and I would also like to point out to the rapporteurs - with what is happening with the European Space Agency, which since its foundation, on the merits of Amaldi, one of its founders (by the way Italian), has seen the introduction in its statutory mission of the still existing forecast of a compulsory programme to finance research based on space activities. I therefore believe that it is appropriate, even if we do not see an excessively industrialistic view, that what has been done for the European Agency should also be done for the Italian Agency. I would also briefly like to mention Amendment 2.16, which establishes a council of aerospace policy experts with advisory and proactive functions at the Committee, because one of the problems that this bill has is that the advisory and proactive aspect and the involvement of the academic and industrial community of this country are not properly foreseen, by referring only to the technical and scientific committee of the ASI and other industry experts, in a maximum of five (which are not sufficient).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u45	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Higher Education Institute (Enrico Mattei) of Cerveteri, in the province of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u46	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u47	On amendment 2.100, the 5th Commission gave an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. I am in favour of Amendment 2,101 and Amendment 2.102, which can be considered as being absorbed by the adoption of the previous amendment. I call on you to withdraw amendments 2.103, 2.104, 2.105, 2.105, 2.106, 2.107, 2.108 otherwise the opinion will be against it. Amendments 2,109 and 2,116, in contrast to the Commission's 5th opinion, are impervious. I am in favour of Amendments 2.10 and 2.113. If they are not withdrawn, I am against Amendments 2.11, 2.115 and 2.117. I am in favour of amendment 2.12 provided that the following correction is made at the end of the text: "Risks arising from human activity" instead of "Human activity." Also on 2.114 I am in favour, provided that a rewording of this content is accepted: " r-bis" promotes measures to support demand and supply of training in space and aerospace disciplines, taking into account annually the framework of initiatives promoted by Italian universities". The presenter, Senator Castaldi, is, however, aware of the proposal for reformulation. On amendment 2.118 the opinion is also in favour, provided that the words "identified by public evidence" are replaced by the words: "selected in accordance with objective and transparent procedures in compliance with the current legislation". Finally, the opinion was opposed to the agenda for Mr G2.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u48	Senator Castaldi, will you accept the rewording proposals put forward by the rapporteur to Amendments 2.112, 2.114 and 2.118? CASTALDI (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The rapporteur's opinion therefore supports the reworded text.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u49	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u50	We move on to amendment 2.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. GIROTTO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senators Girotto and Castaldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 2.101. PEGORER (Art. 1-MDP). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.101, tabled by the Senator-Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2102 is therefore incorporated. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.103, tabled by Senators Castaldi and Girotto. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.104, tabled by Senator Granaiola. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.105, tabled by Senator Granaiola. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.106, tabled by Senator Moronese and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.107, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.108, tabled by Senators Castaldi and Girotto. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2.109, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.109, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.10 tabled by the Senator-Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Castaldi, do you accept the call for the withdrawal of amendment 2.11? CASTALDI (M5S). No, Mr President, I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11 tabled by Senators Castaldi and Girotto. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.12 (correct text), tabled by Senator Castaldi and Mr Girotto. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.13 tabled by Senators Castaldi and Girotto. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.14 (text 2), tabled by Senators Castaldi and Girotto. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.15 tabled by the Senator-Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us move on to Amendment 2.16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ♪ oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.16, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,117 tabled by the Senator-Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.118 (text 2), tabled by Senators Castaldi and Girotto. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Moronese, the rapporteur had an opinion against the agenda. Will you keep it in the vote? MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.100, presented by Senators Moronese and Castaldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u51	Mr President, Amendment 3.0.100 introduces the Parliamentary Committee on Space, referred to in the text of the draft law which I tabled, but which has not been acquired by the rapporteurs. I would simply like to respond to the remarks made by Senators Tomaselli and Pelino; it is not true that the Committee in question overlaps with the parliamentary committees. In essence, the Parliamentary Committee for Space would have an activity of monitoring and control that spans the activities of many Commissions, so much so that the same bill in our examination, for example, should have been discussed by the 7th Commission, as the Italian Space Agency is supervised by the Ministry of Education, University and Research. Therefore, space policy is intrinsically interdisciplinary, as you yourself have acknowledged. It is therefore clear that there is a need for a Committee which does not carry out legislative activities, which of course are the responsibility of the parliamentary committees, but a monitoring and control activity on space policies, which is space and exile from the activities of the permanent committees; all this, however, despite the fact that many other European countries also have bodies dedicated to the purpose, which meet annually at the European Interparliamentary Conference on Space. I therefore renew my proposal once again and I hope that this parliamentary committee will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u52	The remaining amendments are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u53	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u54	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 3,100. I am in favour of amendment 3.101, provided that the following rewording of the text proposed in paragraph 1 of Article 3 is accepted: "Choices between highly qualified and documented personalities and experience in the field of research and the space and aerospace industry" by deleting the last words "and with significant managerial experience". I then give a favourable opinion on Amendment 3,102 until the words "both sexes" are added, with the word "otherwise" added after the word "defined" is added. The amendment would then become the following: The composition of the Management Board is also defined by favouring the presence of both sexes. The rest of the amendment was deleted. I am therefore against, or would like to call for, Amendment 3,103 to be withdrawn. I am also opposed to Amendment 3.0.100 in view of the 5th Commission's opinion in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, as well as for the substantive reasons that we have previously allowed ourselves to reiterate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u55	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u56	Senator Castaldi, do you accept the two proposals for reformulation? CASTALDI (M5S). Yes, Mr President, and I withdraw Amendment 3,103. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,100, tabled by Senators Castaldi and Girotto. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.101 (text 2), tabled by Senators Castaldi and Girotto. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,102 (text 2), tabled by Senators Castaldi and Girotto. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 3,103 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Since the vote is requested, I would ask the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.100, tabled by Senator Bocchino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u57	Mr President, I would ask the presenter to withdraw Amendment 5.0.100, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u58	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u59	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 5. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.0.100, tabled by the Senator-Council. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 6, on which an amendment has been tabled which is intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u60	Mr President, this is an amending proposal which seeks to delete Article 6, because it is properly pointed out to us that in the text which has been laid off the forecast is so vague that it is likely to lead to uncertainty. Therefore, as I have already said, we propose that this amendment delete it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u61	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u62	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 6,500. BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Having not been tabled on Article 6 other amendments than the deletion 6,500 tabled by the rapporteurs, I would like to refer to the nominal vote by a simultaneous vote on the retention of the Rule. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u65	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask you to correct my vote. I have mistakenly voted against it rather than for it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buccarella, are you referring to the last vote? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So you wanted to keep the article? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u66	The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u69	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, the idea of the new space we are dealing with today no longer sees space conquest at the heart of the interests of politics, but recognizes in space a new frontier for growth and development. It is no coincidence that in recent years the number of countries and companies that have invested in this sector has increased considerably, triggering fierce competition at international level. Since the 2008 crisis, in fact, the average public budgets of OECD countries have fallen by very little, from 52 to 50.8 billion dollars in 2013. In addition, the increasingly active role of new powers such as China and India alongside the United States, Russia and Japan is also emerging. The European Commission has expressed its ambitious objective of placing Europe in a position of leadership in space and aerospace, although at the moment European investment in space is just under EUR 10 billion. Despite this, the turnover of the European space industry is estimated at between 47 and 54 billion, employing more than 230,000 professionals active also in the production and services sector. In the European panorama, Italy has acquired, in recent years, a leading role with a space industry that includes about 250 companies and records a total turnover of about 1.6 billion. The four main companies - including AVIO and Alenia Space Italy - employ about 78 percent of the total workforce in the sector which, in general, employs about 6,000 employees. This is the process that has allowed the birth of a highly specialized and competitive industrial chain, so much so that today our country is present throughout the production chain linked to space: satellites, ground stations, launchers and data analysis. We also have some top-notch companies that are able to exploit space data to serve land-based applications of public utility from the telecommunications and safety sector to health and transport. Our potential is absolutely growth. I shall conclude by announcing our vote in favour of this measure. Our concern, during its excursus also in the Commission, was to try to understand how our industry, our small and medium-sized enterprises, benefited from it. Indeed, there is also a historical propensity of our country in research, investment and work around this activity that can certainly bring something good, especially for our GDP. Competition from emerging countries such as India and China must not stop us, but rather must be a spur for our companies to have more and more markets in a world that is becoming global. Our vote - I repeat - will be in favour. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u72	Granaiola (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, the bill approved by the 10th Senate Commission at first reading on 27 April 2017 comes to the Assembly after an iter which has been going on since June 2014 and which has seen not only a round of hearings, but also the presentation of several new texts by the rapporteurs and their relative amendmentability. The measure aims to reorder a strategic sector for the interests of the country with obvious repercussions in terms of research and economy. Before the explanation of vote in Article 1 - Democratic and progressive movement, I would like to reiterate some issues which are considered very important. From a strictly legal point of view, the text does not present any particular critical issues. The question, however, is of an exquisitely political nature, particularly with regard to the question of whether the tasks of direction, coordination and direction of the whole sector should be assigned to the President-in-Office of the Council. In particular, he, together with the established Interministerial Committee for Space and Aerospace Research Policies, approves the strategic document of national space policy that defines the policy strategy and financial intervention lines for the development of innovative industrial technologies and space application services in favour of the economic growth of the country; and ends, essentially, to control the Italian Space Agency, addressing it in the definition of international agreements and in relations with international space bodies. Consider that the ASI today is a public body equivalent to any research body and, for this reason, is subject to the Ministry of Education, University and Research which has, however, a simple supervision, as the institution has full statutory autonomy. If the bill were passed, the prospect would change, as the Agency would lose much of its autonomy today for its benefit. We are therefore sorry that the amendments that we tabled to this end have not been adopted. Despite the great work done in the Commission on the subject, in the shared objective of creating tools for governance in the space sector, it is believed that the Agency's autonomy should have been better protected and guaranteed, also from the point of view of its discretionary choice regarding the use of its financial resources, which is why I had tabled amendments. However, the Article 1 Group will vote in favour of the measure because - as stated in the European Parliament resolution of 19 January 2012 on the European Union's space strategy at the service of its citizens - space policy is certainly an important tool for achieving social, economic and strategic objectives; social, for the well-being of European citizens, which depends heavily on technical and scientific progress in the field of the environment, the fight against climate change, security and health; economic, because space generates new knowledge and is the engine of innovation, growth and, therefore, jobs; strategic, because a good space policy certainly serves to consolidate the Union's role on the world stage and contributes to its political and economic independence. We will therefore vote in favour, although we thought it important to better define the interministerial committee's link between national space policies and regional industrial policies, in order to also financially support projects capable of having a positive impact on the territory as regards the growth of the industrial system and research in the regional area. We therefore vote in favour, in the hope that, in the course of implementation, account will be taken of the comments made by our Movement. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u75	MARINO Luigi (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, there is a measure which has taken a long time, not months, but four years, and perhaps more. If we are here today, we owe it to the patient and intelligent work of the two speakers, Senator Pelino and Senator Tomaselli, whom I warmly thank. Yet, we were not without governance. Since 1988 we have been equipped with instruments and funding that have enabled Italy to be certainly at the forefront, among the first countries in Europe and in the world. Senator Tomaselli in his opening report recalled Professor Broglio and the first Italian launch, carried out in 1964. I remember that those were exceptional years for our country that, in the field of pure scientific research - I think of nuclear, but also what Professor Broglio did in the aerospace field - was really in the elite group in the world. Today we are going to modernise this governance, because we must always keep up with the times, especially in these areas where research and technology are the main part of the work required to remain at the world's top. The objective is therefore clear and we agree with this bill, which aims to build a forward-looking space and aerospace policy, in an economic and international context which, as they say, is increasingly competitive. As demonstrated and taught by the experiences of the United States, but now also of other countries that are approaching or are maturing great interests in the aerospace, such as China, the repercussions of space policies on life not only economic, but also civil and therefore citizens, are far superior to what may appear superficially. These are "stringing" but constant, progressive and ineluctable spillovers, which I consider to be positive. I would say that this is also business and, indeed, that it is more important than other businesses and, if we do not enter this sector, in these activities, and we do not maintain our positions, we risk losing it. The rapporteur, Mrs Pelino, said that space should be seen as a complex system for knowledge, industrial sectors, applications and users globally involved and she is right: as I mentioned earlier, the consequences relate to the lives of all of us, to everyday life, to the lives of all citizens. Let us think about applications in the field of earth observation, the improvement of technologies and nanotechnologies and the evolution of industry, which are undeniable. It has been remembered that between the enterprises that work directly in this section and the nearest induced one, that is "dragged" from the space and aerospace section, there are approximately 200 companies, almost 6,000 employees, for a figure that approaches the 2 billion euros of direct turnover. This generates - as I believe the sectors and sectors of industry must - a supply chain. We often hear in this House defending and supporting small and micro-enterprises. But let us always remember that, if there is no supply chain that starts from a large enterprise and from a great design of political strategy or industrial policy, small and micro-enterprises cannot develop, grow and live. And, therefore, a chain is created that integrates, mixes and connects many stakeholders to the space sector. The aim of the draft law is to establish a multidisciplinary choice - for industry, the environment, agriculture, defence and transport - which, with the assistance of regional and Community policies, facilitates integration and becomes a positive synthesis. This is the mission of the bill. The importance of the measure is also derived from the fact that in the end the general political responsibility and the coordination of the policies of the various ministries and other institutions are attributed to the President of the Council, who directs, directs and stimulates the policy of the sector. And the Interministerial Committee will have the main task of coordinating research bodies and public administration with the world of enterprise. Obviously there is not only the issue of the economic repercussions, which are clear, and of the competitiveness of the system as a whole, but there is also the one mentioned by the two excellent speakers of national security, both civil and military; there is the theme of the link with international and European programmes, because we are not the taillight, as is often the case with Italy, but at the forefront; there is the transfer of knowledge for the public benefit in this matter - for example - of environment, transport and telecommunications. And all this does not call into question the action of the Italian Space Agency which, participating in the Interministerial Committee, will become the fundamental link between the industrial system and the world of research. Let us also remember that the Italian Agency, for its prestige and experience, plays a leading role in the European Space Agency's programmes. And in this regard I like to emphasize - said Senator Pelino in her opening relationship - the consolidated collaboration of the ASI with NASA, also aimed at the development of the International Space Station. For these reasons, the Alternative Popular Group - Centristi per l'Europa considers this measure appropriate and positive and will vote in favour of the new governance of Italian space and aerospace policy. [[Applause from Senators Pelino and Torrisi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u78	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I began my general discussion by defining this historic day because we are talking about space policy in a Parliamentary House. The Group of the Italian Left will not fail to support the draft law in question, because it clearly and unequivocally defines the chain of command and the responsibility of those who must decide the national space policy, a policy of strategic importance, and even more. Senator Tomaselli in his introductory report has already mentioned the fact that Italy has not so far been absent when it comes to taking spatial policy decisions. And this has been done thanks to temporary structures, of limited duration and appointed, from time to time, by successive governments. The directing booth still present, which has so far defined space policy, coordinated by Colonel Puri, mentioned by Senator Tomaselli, has done a fine job. Now, however, we must try to institutionalise a government commission that takes on the burden and honours of defining national space policy, taking responsibility for the choices made and making the decision-making process in the field of space policy somewhat transparent. That is why we will not be lacking our support. Indeed, we believe that clarification of decision-making should also take place in other areas, such as research. There are draft laws currently under discussion (one at my first signature and one at the first signature of Vice-President Di Giorgi) which are essentially aimed at setting up an interministerial committee on research policy. The research policy, of which space policy is - if we want to - a subset, in fact, has those multidisciplinary features that ensure that the ministries involved in the decisions are more than one, with all the possible inefficiencies that have characterized the decisions in the field of both space policy and, above all, research policy. As a model, this certainly satisfies us and should also be extended to research policy. Mr President, I would like to spend the rest of my speech in an explanation of vote, after expressing our support, rejecting some of the critical issues contained in the draft law, to hand over my reflections to the plenary assembly and to ensure that, in the aftermath of its approval, which we hope will take place as soon as possible, we can continue to discuss space policy in Parliament, according to some lines that we believe need to be addressed in order to make the process even more appropriate to a great space power such as Italy. As regards the critical point, it has been said - for example - that this measure is a reform of the Italian Space Agency. Actually, it's not really like that. It is a reform of the way in which the Government takes decisions on space policy, but not on the ASI itself; and this is a first missed opportunity. The Italian Space Agency remains under the supervision of the MIUR, while for the Interministerial Committee - as we know - the first responsibility for decisions lies with the President of the Council. There is, therefore, a discrasia compared to what is now the Italian Space Agency. And let's remember that the fact that it is still formally a public research body supervised by the MIUR also poses a number of problems in the field of funding. In fact, the Italian Space Agency is not a public research agency, but an agency, the real operational arm of the Government in the field of space policy. Therefore, we have missed the opportunity to better structure the supervision of the Italian Space Agency. Basically, this is closely related to another aspect in the bill, which is the confusion of roles between the decision-making power, represented by the Interministerial Committee, and the executive power, i.e. the operational arm, which is the Agency. This division of roles is not particularly clear in the draft law and this - in my opinion - represents another missed opportunity. It had to be pointed out, in some way, that the Agency is a real operational executive arm, which should not affect in any way the great choices of space policy but, essentially, should carry out the programmes decided by the Interministerial Committee. This confusion is mainly visible in the consultative part of the bill. The Interministerial Committee, of course, must also be assisted in the field of proposal and consultation by an independent body. The draft law refers to the technical and scientific committee of the Italian Space Agency. This underlines, once again, that there is a confusion of roles. In fact, the Interministerial Committee should appoint itself a committee of aerospace policy experts, obviously with purely advisory and proactive functions, and not simply refer to the Technical and Scientific Committee of the ASI, which - let us remember - is a governmental appointment because of the measure under consideration. It consists of seven members, of whom only two are appointed by the President and five are appointed by the Government Committee. This exposes this decision somewhat in opposition to what happens in other scientific institutions, such as in public research bodies, where this committee is, in part or in full, elected by the scientific community, precisely because it must be the representation of the contribution of the scientific community to the discussion of policies. This kind of confusion between the two roles remains also in the definition of consultative bodies, with the result that the scientific and industrial community, in this case - space policy also concerns the industrial community of this country - are not represented in the chain of command. This represents a vulnus that - in our opinion - must be corrected, in order to be able to put into the virtuous process of decision on space policies also the vision that comes from the scientific and academic community and from the industrial one, that work constantly in the field of aerospace policies and, as a forge of ideas, can certainly represent a stimulus to define the lines along which our country must move. I will return once again to the subject of Parliament's involvement. Senator Pelino pointed out that decisions must be made with time continuity and also with a certain speed. I of course agree: it is true that the field of space and airspace changes on scale times that are very small. And, therefore, politics must have the ability to make quick decisions and adapt to circumstances, to define strategic assets and the lines on which to invest (launchers, carriers and so on), i.e. to respond quickly. That is not what is being discussed when we are talking about a parliamentary committee. Of course, it was not our intention to slow down the process in any way. We wanted to involve Parliament in the debate and in the debate, with the political forces in it, simply from the point of view of monitoring and control. I believe that Parliament must again play a much more important role than it currently has. And this is a debate that we have had so many times in this House, Mr President, when we talked about constitutional reform, and that must also be done in this area. One of the ways in which Parliament can return to its role is also to envisage the possibility, in interdisciplinary matters such as these - and therefore not well represented and represented by the individual parliamentary committees - of setting up a committee to monitor and be a bit of a watchdog towards the Government, and of course nothing by taking away the power and power of the Government to intervene and decide on the broad lines of spatial policy. I would like to stress once again that this is a missed opportunity, to which we will have to return. Nevertheless, for the reasons mentioned above, the Italian Left will not fail to support this beautiful legislative intervention, which has long been awaited by the operators of the sector. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u81	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I will be very brief, because we have said everything in general debate. We consider this measure to be very significant, and very significant for us in the Movement is the fact that many of the amendments and proposals have entered into the measure itself, first of all in the Industry Commission and now even in this House. However, let us not hide a small concern about some ambiguity and generality of definition, such as those found in Article 2, on the development of space and aerospace programmes involving dual national security aspects, with particular reference to civil and military security applications. Despite these concerns, our vote will certainly be in favour. I would like to take this opportunity to thank Senator Pelino and Senator Tomaselli for their work. It is a demonstration, Mr President, that when Parliament is working freely, the measures that come out of this House are certainly better. Parliament - in my humble opinion - in these cases resumes the centrality and power which it too often leaves to the government on duty. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u84	GALIMBERTI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking Senator Pelino for the spirit and work she has done in carrying out this draft law. The aerospace industry is strategic in advanced economies, as a generator of wealth and high technology, and Italy, with its two billion euros, ranks third in Europe behind only Germany and France. Those who preceded me stressed that the economic return of the research and technological application activities of this sector are five times higher than investments, with a concrete impact on the entire industrial sector, because the aerospace sector derives more patents and applications covering entire sectors: from telecommunications to security, from infrastructure to construction and even pharmacology. I would like to stress that aerospace is an Italian excellence. In fact, despite our economic model is composed of a network of medium and small industries, it is confirmed at the forefront also in the various levels that make up the production chain. And this is demonstrated by the many successes we have achieved in recent years in the various space missions to which we have contributed through housing modules, communication systems, scientific satellites and propulsion systems. Think of the many collaborations with NASA, which have been consolidated over the years, as well as our participation with a primary role in ESA, the European Space Agency. And it is precisely in Europe that an Italian company, AVIO, has scored yet another milestone: the production of the world's largest monolithic solid carbon fibre engine, which will equip the new European launchers. However, the great dynamism and efficiency of our companies are not enough to enable the sector to unlock the potential that it really has. In fact, we need a unitary organization and an overall industrial policy that impose those effective responses and that strategic vision that our country would desperately need, but that the last governments have not been able to guarantee. Therefore, the Forza Italia Group can only look favorably at a measure that aims to equip the space and aerospace sectors with a new system of Government that keeps more and more in mind the complexity of the challenges of the sector, the need for a holistic approach guaranteed by a structured coordination and to give back centrality to the debate on the role of the space industry in Italy; a task so far well carried out by the Italian Space Agency, which has been able to guide the sector always at the forefront of the world, but which will now be made even easier thanks to the creation of a coordination committee, placed under the direction and political responsibility of the President of the Council of Ministers, who can effectively support the ASI. To underline the real reversal of trend and the centrality that is intended to give to the topic of aerospace policies, it is sufficient to scroll through the list of Ministers provided for by this measure in the Interministerial Committee for Space and Aerospace Research Policies: ten Ministers to which are added the President of the Conference of the Presidents of the Regions and the President of the Italian Space Agency. In the light of what has just been said and in the hope that the path taken for the aerospace sector with this bill, through the definition of strategies, industrial policies, synergies and development lines, can represent the main path to follow for the development of the entire country with an industrial policy worthy of this name, I announce the favorable vote of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u87	SAGGESE (PD). Mr President, Vice-Minister, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law that we are about to adopt, as has been well reiterated during the speeches of my previous colleagues, is an important measure for the Italian economy, both because it aims to stimulate a reflection in my opinion absolutely due and appropriate on the evolution that the space and aerospace sector has had over the years, and because it represents a summary of the main legislative interventions to ensure its ever greater development. The aerospace sector has to date profound and significant repercussions also in strictly economic terms and in terms of growth of our country: it is no longer just an extraordinary field of research and experimentation, but it is now an indispensable and effective opportunity for economic and social development. Many are the areas in which the effects of aerospace research are revealed through the concrete application of the result of research in the social fabric of the country. The variety of applications is vast and diverse, ranging from astrophysics and cosmology to the monitoring of climate change, security (including the management of natural disasters), defence, transport, agriculture, the maritime environment, weather forecasts, the information society, health, energy and smart cities, the telecommunications and satellite navigation market, to mention some of the possible applications. Therefore, the importance of the socio-economic value of the aerospace sector has increased, as it has also been widely represented during the hearings and in the introductory reports to the draft laws under discussion, which have highlighted the exponential and significant growth of the number of countries with space capabilities in the world. Added to this is the development that the sector has had in Italy (as previously mentioned by the rapporteur) with the birth, in various regions, from North to South, of real economic-productive districts, which see the numerous presence of small and medium-sized companies, which are essential to feed the production cycle of the large companies operating in this field. At the Italian level, only to provide some numerical data, it is estimated that the space-related economy represents a turnover of 1.5 billion euros in the year 2014. But much more can be done and it is with this conviction that the Government first set up a steering booth at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, in which the Italian Space Agency and the Regions participate, precisely because it wanted to give importance to the need to coordinate the investments and policies of the aerospace sector. With the approval of this bill, today we even come to the establishment of an interministerial committee for space and aerospace research policies. As you said, the Committee will have the task of directing and supporting the Space Agency in the definition of international agreements and relations with the various international players operating in the field, thus defining the financial resources to be used. It will have the task of promoting the processes of internationalization of national capacities, as well as the development and technological enhancement of small and medium-sized enterprises and, no less important, the transfer of knowledge from the research sector to public utility services (environment, transport, telecommunications). It is estimated, in this respect, that a euro invested in the space sector will become little more in the event that investment in the scientific sector, which is nevertheless necessary to increase knowledge and experiment with new technologies, but even in the face of a euro you can reach six euros in particularly lucrative areas such as telecommunications. This is to say the importance, even in economic terms, of this sector. However, the complexity of the subject is undeniable, with knowledge, industrial sectors, applications, operators and users involved as a whole, as well as the very large number of international cooperation and partnerships. However, this sector, in addition to being an expression of technological excellence in a strategic key, especially with functions of deterrent and enhancement of prestige, is today an important driving force for the strengthening of the country's industrial competitiveness. Enabling factors of these opportunities are the industrial capacities, the result of the choices of an industrial policy that is more important today than ever in an increasingly global scenario, but also more and more crowded with competitors, and that aims to ensure the competitiveness of an industrial system that is able, on the one hand, to serve institutional demand, and, on the other hand, to impose itself and assert itself profitably in the international commercial market. Therefore, the need to reform the mandate of the ASI was welcomed during the work, paying greater attention to the industrial development of the national space sector, with particular reference also to the needs of large, small and medium-sized enterprises. It is therefore important that the governance solutions at the fairs can develop the connective tissue around the Agency, so that, on the one hand, this continues its mission in the field of research and the strengthening of industrial competitiveness and, on the other, the country is endowed with the appropriate tools for the long-term support of infrastructures. The latter is an indispensable prerequisite for the growth and stabilisation of the market for services on a space, public and private basis. For all the reasons that I have summarized here and with the hope that the space and airspace sector will be the subject of constant and increasing attention from the legislator and the Government, the Democratic Party Group will vote strongly in favour of the draft law that we are going to vote for. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u90	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would ask for permission to hand over the written text of my speech, because I come from the Confindustria Assembly, where, among other things, President Boccia spoke about this very subject, about the peculiarities and efforts that we must make in this area. We therefore consider that we are voting in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u91	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. We now come to the examination of the coordination proposal C1, which has already been distributed and which is intended to be presented. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteurs. It's approved. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the unified text of the draft law no. 1110, 1410 and 1544, in the amended text, with the following title: Measures for the coordination of space and aerospace policy and provisions concerning the organisation and operation of the Italian Space Agency. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u94	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking because I have submitted to the Senate the question 4-07506 and in the Campania Region we have done the same as the 5 Star Movement. Today there has been talk of aerospace and, in reference to this, the question 4-07506, which we have presented in Campania Region and Senate, wants to bring to the attention of the Assembly and, in particular, of the competent Ministers, the fact that the ENAV closes the consortium SICTA, located in Naples. I would like to remind you that this consortium has highly specialised employees working on software. These are people with a very high specialization, whose work is done by building software (so sitting down), that we use at our airports, for security, and that we also sell abroad. Of course there are also spatial projects, that is to say, relating to space, not only the airplane of the earth. There is therefore an exceptional prospect and there are workers working through software that they sell today even abroad. Well, what do they want to do? They want to remove these workers from the site in Naples and transfer them to the other side with the excuse that they have to stay in a structure located in a different territory because it is better that they all stay in that place. This makes absolutely no sense, given the type of work they do. I want to ask the Minister to intervene so that this does not happen and the workers remain in the Neapolitan territory, because from there they come, they have grown and formed, it is there that they have a family and that they must remain. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]] We therefore strongly call on the relevant ministries to intervene because - I repeat - it makes absolutely no sense for people working on software to be moved to another place. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u97	PEGORER (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, with this speech at the end of the sitting, today, in the Senate, a relay with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. On May 14, in Castel Volturno, in the province of Caserta, Binta Sani died, forty-four years old, following the stabbing wounds reported, three days earlier, in an attempt to defend a friend from the aggression of her former companion. On May 18 in Trebaseleghe, in the province of Padua, a forty-six-year-old woman, Natasha Bettiolo, was stabbed by the man with whom she had an affair. After killing her, the man attempted suicide. This is how the 57 women we remember in this relay, started only on June 30, 2016. I remember, moreover, that after two years of investigation, yesterday, 23 May, he was arrested on the charge of preterintentional murder, the husband of Angela Della Torre, forty-nine years old, of Castellabbate, in the province of Salerno, died as a result of a push received during a violent quarrel. Femicide is only the tip of the iceberg of male violence against women. In Italy more than 8.3 million women are victims of psychological violence and 4.5 million have suffered degrading and humiliating sexual acts, unwanted and suffered relationships such as violence, abuse or physical sexual harassment. There is still enormous work to be done to eradicate the cancer of violence against women from our society. There must be a great educational and cultural commitment, especially to the younger generations, starting with schools. The phenomenon must be made known, in all its tragic aspects, and a campaign must be promoted against all forms of violence and to promote and root the culture of respect. Let us make our appeal with conviction. An appeal to the Government all and to the Undersecretary with delegation to equal opportunities: the directing booth monitors the application, the merits and the limits of Law No. 119 of 2013, and above all give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. An appeal to the media: stop justifying, even with the wrong language, the murderers and to blame women. An appeal to the men and women of this country: more than one hundred and twenty women were killed in 2016; we can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-24-LEG17-Senato-sed-828.ana.u98	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.24 p.m.
