ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 12 April.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting until 9.59 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.39 a.m. and resumed at 9.59 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u9	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, let us renew the request for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is not supported.) I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u11	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u12	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Rules of Procedure starts (10 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u13	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2784, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Parente, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u14	Mr President, the measure before us contains urgent measures for the repeal of the provisions on ancillary work and for the amendment of the provisions on joint liability in the field of procurement, and consists of three articles. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 repeals the institute of ancillary work, Articles 48, 49 and 50 of Legislative Decree no. 81 of 15 June 2015. In the accompanying report to the decree it is stated that the provision aims to counter the use of elusive practices in order to promote the affirmation of more stable forms of work. It is recalled that a request for a repealing referendum is pending with regard to the Institute of Ancillary Labour (a referendum deemed admissible by the Constitutional Court and held on 15 March 2017). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly retrace the regulatory developments of the Institute of Ancillary Work, linking it with the data available to us on the exponential increase in the use of vouchers or good work, which are the form of payment of ancillary work, and some revelations on related abuses, which induce the legislator to propose the repeal of the legislation. The ancillary work was introduced into the Italian law by Article 70 of Legislative Decree no. 276 of 2003 (the so-called Biagi law). Ancillary work services were defined as work activities of a purely occasional nature. The aim of this institute was originally to bring out undeclared work areas and at the same time to promote the social and occupational inclusion of particularly disadvantaged people. To this end, the legislator had confined its scope to a limited audience of persons: the long-term unemployed (over a year), housewives, students, pensioners, disabled people, persons resident in a rehabilitation community, non-EU workers who have been unemployed for at least six months. The Biagi law had also identified the areas of activities of performance: small household work of extraordinary character; additional private teaching; small gardening, cleaning and maintenance of buildings and monuments; realization of social, sporting, cultural or charitable events; collaboration with public bodies and voluntary associations for the carrying out of solidarity or emergency work. For the payment of the remuneration the system of vouchers was introduced (then with a value of 7,5 euros) with a limit of 3,000 euros per year to the total compensation accumulated by the provider during the calendar year and a maximum of thirty working days for the individual activities. Subsequently, Decree-Law No 35 of 14 March 2005 added to the ancillary work services the activities of the family business limited to trade, tourism and services and amended paragraph 2 of Article 70 of the Biagi law, bringing the remuneration, with reference to the same client, to 5.000 euros during the calendar year. The system of good work became operational only in 2008 by decree of 12 March of the Ministry of Labour and social policies and referred to only one area: the execution of short-lived and occasional vendettas. Subsequently, Decree-Law No 5 of 10 February 2009 again amended the regulatory framework, extending subjective areas, for students and pensioners whose activity could be carried out in any production sector. 2010 saw the introduction of a third channel for the distribution of vouchers, tobacconists, where collection was also possible. Law No 92 of 28 June 2012 (the so-called Fornero law) has profoundly modified the legislation on ancillary work, both with regard to the scope, extending it to all areas, and with regard to the remuneration part. The law also provided that, without prejudice to the total limit of 5,000 euros in the course of a calendar year for each provider, ancillary work could be carried out in favour of contractors, traders or professionals, provided that the remuneration for each contractor did not exceed 2,000 euros. In the agricultural sector, the ancillary work institute was only eligible for occasional work, carried out in the context of seasonal activities carried out by pensioners or young people under 25 years of age, if regularly enrolled in a course of study at a school of any order and grade, compatible with school commitments, or at any time of the year if regularly enrolled in a course of study at the university; and, again, for activities in favour of agricultural producers with low turnover. Decree-Law No 76 of 28 June 2013 then amended the very nature of the work services, eliminating the words "of a merely occasional nature" from the new standard. Therefore, accessory work services are defined only by compliance with economic limits and not even by their occasional and occasional character. From 2014 it becomes mandatory to activate the pre-emptive telematic vouchers. Legislative decree no. 81 of 2015 raises the net economic limit of 5.000 euros to 7.000 euros and also establishes that the contractors can buy the good work through the telematic procedure. With Legislative Decree No. 81 of 15 June 2015, the so-called jobs act, the Government has therefore intervened on a pre-existing and consolidated legislation, introducing two novelties. The first is the further increase of! Annual limit of remuneration, set at 7,000 euros, while maintaining that of 2,000 for the work carried out in favour of each client; the second is the introduction of the prohibition of the use of ancillary work services in the execution of works or services contracts. Finally, with Legislative Decree n. 185 of 24 September 2016 the full traceability of vouchers has been guaranteed. It has been established that the principal non-agricultural or professional entrepreneurs, who use ancillary work services, are required, at least sixty minutes before the start of the ancillary work, to communicate to the territorial seat of the national labour inspectorate the personal data or the employee's tax code, the place, day and time of commencement and end of the service. It is important to remember that the institute of ancillary work, paid with vouchers, did not include a contract of employment. The employee's perception of the compensation was possible - at the dealer of the service - after the customer's accreditation of the vouchers. The nominal value of the voucher was 10 euros and the nominal fee retained the contribution to INPS and INAIL - the total percentage measure of which was currently 20% - as well as the fee payable to the same dealer for reimbursement of expenses. The compensation was exempt from any tax and did not affect the unemployed or unemployed status of the employer. By linking the data available to us, we can make some considerations. According to data from the Observatory of Ancillary Work and the Observatory of the precarious, we went from 535,985 vouchers sold in 2008 to 133,827,843 in 2016. The sectors that most used vouchers were commerce, catering and tourism. On March 30, ISTAT, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, INPS and INAIL published the Joint Quarterly Note on Employment Trends for the fourth quarter of 2016. The figures show that the number of vouchers sold was around 134 million - as we said - or 23.9 percent more than in the previous year. In the fourth quarter of 2016 there was a slowdown in trend growth (plus 7.2 percent), compared to previous quarters. In January 2017, less than 9 million vouchers were sold for accessory work, at the lowest level after January 2016. This can be read in the INPS tables presented by the President of the Institute, Tito Boeri, in a hearing at the Chamber's Work Committee. Compared to January 2016 the sale of vouchers has slightly increased but, thanks to the introduction of traceability (introduced with the correctives of the jobs act), it is much lower than the average of 2016. Ultimately, from summer 2008, when the experimentation in short-lived sales began, to June 30, 2016, around 347 million vouchers were sold, with an exponential increase from 2013 onwards. Many can be the triggers of this development. First of all, Law No 92 of 2012 extended the scope of action to almost all production sectors and extended lenders. At the same time, the regulation of discontinuous work has substantially changed since the Fornero reform itself: on the one hand, the scope of the application of call work has been limited in the absence of a collective agreement (the so-called predetermined periods of the year are excluded, remaining only the hypothesis of use of subjects under 25 and over 55), also subject to new procedural burdens (traceability, i.e. the obligation of prior communication of the call and its duration). A study by INAPP, which is soon to be published, shows that these legislative changes have led to a marked change in the composition of discontinuous employment in the company: in summary, after the 2012 reform, a substantial proportion of companies, in order to respond to discontinuous work needs, have stopped calling and turning work towards the use of job vouchers. The analysis of the data on the use of the two institutes shows an evident change in the trends in the historical series in correspondence of 2013, highlighting the bending of the number of workers interested by new contracts to call and the parallel increase of the use to the vouchers, suggesting an effect transvaded from the job to call to the ancillary job. Also the start of the service by tobacconists, with the agreement between the INPS and the Italian tobacconist Federation, has determined the increase of the sales of the vouchers. Probably the capillarity of the tobacconists spread over the territory and the ease of use of the instrument have contributed to the success of the purchase of vouchers that, when used correctly, in fact constitute the only legal means for the payment of the accessory and occasional work. Of the 134 million vouchers sold in 2016, according to FIT data, around 76 percent, corresponding to 101 million pieces, transited through the network of tobacconists affiliated with the INPS. In a detailed analysis of the INPS data on the distribution of accessory work providers by age group, it is noted that in 2008 vouchers appeared to be an instrument for the older age group, in 2011 especially for young people, in 2015 the weight of young people is further increased while the importance of the thirty-year-olds of forty-year-olds has also been strengthened. As for the territorial distribution of the use of vouchers, three Northern Regions - Lombardy, Veneto and Emilia-Romagna - account for 40% of the market. At provincial level, the first four Provinces per number of workers were Milan, Turin, Verona and Rome. The numbers of increase in use do not in themselves demonstrate the elusive use of vouchers, but some investigation and reading of some data highlight the distortions of the tool of the accessory work. According to the October 2016 Work INPS report, the relationship between voucher-adjusted performance and black work is at the heart of the problem underlying this form of regulation. One of the legislator's expectations was that the voucher would serve for the emergence of work from the black, but all too often it was not so. The interweaving between vouchers and black work can be developed in two different ways: every day of accessory work is "covered" by at least one voucher, but the "official" compensation - the one precisely regulated with vouchers - is far from being the real one, which is integrated in black: in this case the size of the submerged is roughly function of the hours worked in excess of those regulated with vouchers. Only a few days of work provided are "covered" by vouchers (in whole or in part); in this case black is the function, in addition to the excess hours, of working days exceeding those regulated with vouchers but in any case included in the "tape" of days declared as ancillary work period. The aim of the latest job-act correction regulations has been to limit the latter distorting effect. In fact, over the years, there have been cases of vouchers to cover the accident and hide the work in black. Almost always the payment of the voucher coincided with the day of the accident while, previously, there was no relationship between the employer and the worker. According to INAIL data, in 2012 the accidents of paid workers with tickets had been 436, in 2014 they tripled, reaching about 1,400, until 1,701 in 2015. Even the white deaths of the voucherists doubled. With regard to 2016, even if it is still provisional data collected at 31 December, the INAIL nevertheless indicates a trend towards an increase for both complaints and fatal events. The relationship between black work and vouchers is also the subject of considerations by the Senate budget service, which states that it is not possible to establish the quantum of the passage of a share of hours - paid work with vouchers to undeclared work, with consequent repercussions on tax and contributory revenue, possibly compensated by the increased revenue resulting from the adoption of other more burdensome contractual forms for employers and workers in relation to other benefits. Paragraph 2 provides that vouchers for ancillary work services required on the date of entry into force of this Decree-Law may be used until 31 December 2017. In essence, it establishes a transitional regime. A statement from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies of 21 March 2017 specified that the employment must take place in compliance with the provisions in the matter of ancillary work established by the discipline subject to repeal by this decree. With regard to the repeal of the institute, an INPS note of 30 March 2017 stated that recourse to ancillary work for the exclusive purposes of taking advantage of the State funding - currently planned until 2018 - for the purchase of babysitting services by working mothers remains possible. Article 2 revises the rules on the joint liability of the contractor or employer with the contractor and with any subcontractors vis-à-vis employees, as well as for social security contributions and insurance premiums. It is recalled that a request for a repealing referendum is pending on this subject. Article 29 (2) of Legislative Decree No 276 of 2003 is amended by deleting the provision that does not prejudice the different provisions of collective agreements for the purpose of the obligation of the buyer jointly with the contractor. The second, third and fourth periods of Article 29 (2) of Legislative Decree No 276 of 2003 are also deleted. I should like to leave it in writing for further consideration of Rule 2 to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Parent, rapporteur. Returning to the legislation to repeal ancillary work and forms of payment (vouchers), allow me to bring back the discussion that has developed in the Commission, where almost all colleagues, majority and opposition, have also highlighted the positive aspects of occasional labour legislation and the fact that the demand for discontinuous work exists. For this reason, the repeal of the rules under consideration could subsequently be an opportunity for the Government and Parliament to address the issue of non-continuous work, in particular taking into account the needs of families, with appropriate regulations that guarantee protection to workers and workers and that do not allow abuse or avoidance. The debate in the Commission also highlighted the need to deepen the legislation of some European countries. In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary for the Government to carefully assess also the possible effects of the revision of the discipline on joint responsibility with respect to those who have diligently complied with the mandatory non-compliance. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u15	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u16	Mr President, we are here to discuss once again the constitutional issues of decree-laws on which abuse is insisted and persevered. In this particular case, it is a decree-law that, albeit short, will cause considerable damage. In the first place, we point out that the content of the measure follows in almost pedissequa manner the two referenda questions promoted by the CGIL for the abolition of vouchers and the repeal of the norms that concern the joint responsibility of the enterprises in case of contracts. A measure is envisaged in order to fundamentally stifle an initiative aimed at expressing the will of the people: this is perhaps the first violation of the constitutional rule that we can highlight. Since it may also have been forgotten, I recall that Article 1 of the Constitution provides that sovereignty belongs to the people. There was the possibility of subjecting a decision to the people's will but, in order to avoid the outcome, one intervenes with a rule preventing the people from expressing themselves by reaching the approval of a measure by a majority and a government that we doubt can represent the will of the country. Perhaps the last referendums did not like much, because they had some surprising results, so it is believed that subjecting a decision to the people's will could pose risks. And it is for this reason that we have tried to get here, and perhaps also for agreements that may have been between the trade union representatives and the government, or otherwise. Let us also remember that there is a violation of the Constitution, as we have pointed out in our preliminary constitutionality, also in relation to Article 3 which provides that it is the task of the Republic to remove the obstacles (...) which prevent the effective participation of all workers in the political, economic and social organization of the Country. We do not see why it is considered a danger to ask voters, who would probably have been the workers and not just the entrepreneurs, and we do not understand why they did not have the opportunity to express themselves. Moreover, the decree-law is a very useful instrument provided for in the Constitution that provides for the adoption of interim measures with force of law only in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency. In this case too, we do not understand what the cases of necessity and urgency may be, since the House of Deputies has already been considering a draft law on this very subject for two years now, aimed at resolving the distortions of existing legislation or at least to improve it. In two years a single text has been drawn up in the Commission, the deadline for tabling amendments has been set and the Commission has been convened to vote on them and to give the rapporteur the mandate. Here again, years of work by the Commission have been frustrated by regulatory intervention such as this, which is - pass me the word - of strong government taxation. Therefore, we cannot help but think that Damocles' sword was the possibility of a referendum. Another aspect needs to be highlighted, because we believe that serious things are also written in another way. In the preamble to the provision, where the circumstances of necessity and urgency should be clarified, it is mentioned that the institute of ancillary work should be overcome in order to counter the use of elusive practices in order to promote the affirmation of more stable forms of work. Therefore, according to the same extensor of the preamble, the voucher was an elusive practice and is invited to adopt more stable forms of work. In the technical report it is written that the abolition of the voucher institution cannot be directly deduced from decreases in current employment levels, being presumed - I emphasize: presumable - that the work benefits acquired through vouchers will be acquired through the additional numerous contractual forms available under current legislation. Those who wrote this may not have heard the industry operators who used vouchers. I am referring to entrepreneurs, but also pensioners who have tried to round off the poor incomes of pensions, as well as regularization of caregivers and colf. We are also talking about waiters who work within structures even of seasonal character. I am told that these work benefits will presumably have to be regularized through other contracts. But that is not the case, as there are no other forms of contract that can regulate these positions. Let's talk about the numerical profile. Voucher users were 1.300,000 in 2015 and 1.600,000 in 2016. Maybe the government should give us an answer. Does the Commission think that 1,600,000 people will find a regular employment contract with current regulations? Could the student waiter who is trying to make legitimate money by going to work be "regularized" with different work contracts? We are talking about many hoteliers and restaurateurs who have had the opportunity to give work and put in a regular and blank way the compensation received. All these situations will enter a total limbo. In 2015, there were at least 500,000 pure casual workers. We're talking about people who don't have any other jobs. If it were possible to find regular employment contracts for at least 500,000 people, then we could say that you were right to proceed with the repeal under consideration. But this is not the case and an institution is being repealed without, at the same time, trying to solve the problem of those who will no longer be able to use vouchers and fill the gap that will be created. In that emptiness, gentlemen, it is not true that the elusive practice of legislation was represented by vouchers; elusive practices will begin from now on and until legislation is foreseen that effectively regulates and provides in some way for the contractual inclusion in the world of work of these subjects, in our opinion all you do is give rise to a grey area of fog that someone will take advantage of, because you put these people in the need to resort to those elusive methods. A regulation like this, therefore, seems almost to have been defined without even taking into account the real world of work, as if the world of work were about some simple, scant, cynical norm, when instead we are talking about a difficult world. You and we know very well what the unemployment rates are, and that is not how we deal with the problem of employment. We remember further gaps: the legislation of the bill nevertheless provides for continuity, a survival of vouchers already issued before the entry into force of the decree-law. You go for a verse to eliminate the legislation that regulates vouchers and you still leave in place vouchers until the end of the year. Let us explain to us how some hypotheses are overcome, for example the one we have mentioned in our preliminary question: the rule that provides for the preliminary communication of the voucher sixty minutes before the beginning of the performance, with penalties from 400 to 2,400 euros in case there is a non-communication. This prediction is eliminated but vouchers remain alive. What happens now is that for the umpteenth time we are going to create foggy views that, in our opinion, will only fuel further perplexity about the institute and make the existing legislation further inappropriate to regulate all events, which is why we will continue and insist that this decree-law presents profiles of unconstitutionality, to silence of all that concerns the issue of responsibility, also in this case solidarity, of the buyers and the contractors. This is another way of going on with an axe within an existing legislation, creating a mess that will simply remove protection from those who belong to it. For these reasons, we ask that we do not proceed with the examination of the draft law in title. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Albertini and Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u17	He asked Senator Barani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u18	Mr President, our Group has tabled a preliminary question for two reasons: a policy and a matter of substance. From a political point of view, we are strongly opposed to the abolition of vouchers because this Government is a prisoner of a trade union signature, which is the CGIL. To me, Mr President, it comes to mind Manzoni's wedding promises, when Don Abbondio said that courage if one doesn't have it, he cannot give it. This is a government that has no courage, which is CGIL-dependent. It comes to mind, to make a blasphemous comparison - it is here present undersecretary Bobba - that in 1984 in those benches sat Bettino Craxi, who told the CGIL, on the so-called decree of St. Valentine, to go glean and was not afraid to call the referendum; he did so and the Italians were right. From there Italy was divided, which then became the fifth economic power in the world, an Italy in which there was confidence and in which unemployment reached the lowest levels. On the other hand, on the vouchers I can think of another comparison, which takes the sense of the question: Fleming in '29 invented penicillin, which saved millions of people; now, if there was someone allergic, who had side effects, it is not that we abolished penicillin. Similarly, on the two questions which the Constitutional Court has admitted to referenda, the solution is not to abolish the questions raised first, Mr Undersecretary. It is easy to govern in that way, which the Italians do not want: they ask us not to do so and to have more courage. After the first political motivation - which I believe is shared by the majority of Italians - we return then to a second motivation, more of merit: the instrument used to intervene, i.e. the decree-law, is the less suitable one; or rather, in this case it is clearly illegitimate, and now we will see why. There is already a ruling, No. 27 of 2017, in which the Constitutional Court - and not our Group - has declared two popular referendum requests admissible in respect of "abrogating restrictive provisions of joint liability in the field of procurement" and "abrogating provisions on ancillary work" (voucher) ]. The decree-law we are dealing with follows the referendum questions admitted by the Constitutional Court, thus achieving the same repealing effect. You're gonna repeal it? Have the Italians repeal it, if anything, don't do it yourself. You are prisoners of the CGIL, i.e. those who asked for signatures on the referendum. According to the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, which I invite the Government to consult, the Government may take legal measures, only in "extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency." According to Article 15 of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, the decree-laws are presented with an indication, in the preamble, of the extraordinary circumstances of necessity and urgency justifying their adoption. In other words, the need, urgency and circumstances justifying its adoption must be set out in the preamble. It is quite clear what the extraordinary circumstance and urgency were: the political will to avoid the celebration of a repealing referendum. This is not possible, therefore, because, if the Constitution states that they must be specified in the preamble, it is not possible to write: "We don't, because we don't want a referendum." We doubt, however, that such an urgency may fall within the extraordinary cases justifying the adoption of a decree-law. The Government therefore had to write something different in the preamble to the decree-law to justify the intervention. It is interesting to read what has been written: the extraordinary need and urgency to overcome the institute of ancillary work in order to counter elusive practices. You wrote this in the preamble. Mr Undersecretary, since the Constitutional Court, in its judgment No 171 of 2017 - which I invite you to pin down and go to examine - has literally stated that the use of the decree-law cannot be supported by the apodictic statement of the existence of the reasons for necessity and urgency, I believe it is then our task, the Members and senators sitting in this House, to investigate whether the need to repeal the vouchers in order to counter the use of elusive practices is indeed so urgent and extraordinary. The easiest thing to do is to read what the representatives of the majority and government said just a few months ago, when the motions on the jobs act were voted. Motions were voted on with the Government's favourable opinion, in particular, on the referendum on ancillary work, which should have been held in May. On 23 January 2017, a few months ago, the President of the Commission, Cesare Damiano, said: We want to do a precise, clean and complete operation that does not repeal the use of vouchers. I want to say this here: I am opposed to the abolition of vouchers. Poor President Damiano, was immediately denied by his government that gives him confidence. One question could and should be added: what would happen to two out of three voucher recipients, i.e. employees holding Naspi and pensioners? We know the answer well. They would end up in black work; this is a government that thus favours black work. To ban the use of vouchers, in the state of affairs, would mean leaving no regulation of a piece of the labour market that exists, that there is, in front of which we cannot turn on the other side. Vouchers have been and are excellent tools for the emergence of black work and to manage small jobs for families, for businesses, especially for small and very small enterprises. To delete them does not mean to transform vouchers into a fixed-term or permanent employment contract: it means to turn them into black work. That means. These positions had also been expressed by important majority representatives; the Government itself, through the Undersecretary Bobba, in giving its opinion on motion 1-01482 concerning the jobs act in the Chamber of the House, indicated an enlightening rewording of point 1, proposing the following text: Continue efforts to ascertain and sanction abuses in the use of so-called vouchers, preserving, however, this tool that has shown positive results in the emergence of black work. I don't say it; the government has said it. It seems to me that the government behaves like Totò, i.e. uses punctuation as best it can believe, but certainly not in the interest of work. Thus the government itself, three months ago, said that vouchers were a positive tool for the emergence of undeclared work and today, instead, it repeals them to counter elusive practices. A violation of Article 35 of the Constitution is also found in the intervention brought by the decree-law with the letter a), of paragraph 1, of Article 2, which eliminates the possibility, for the associations of entrepreneurs and workers comparatively more representative, to identify methods and procedures of control and verification of the total regularity of the contracts, such as to represent a valid alternative to the joint responsibility. The consequent result of such elimination will be the lack of a valid incentive in order to reach an agreement between the professional associations of workers and entrepreneurs for a system of control to be established that guarantees, from the beginning of the work and for the whole of their duration, legality and correctness in the contractual behavior. The norm that the decree-law intends to eliminate in fact has reduced in a meaningful way serious applicative uncertainties and a series of litigations, in how much the enterprises are exposed to revals that can arrive even in the two years after the completion of the intense activities, and they risk to be seriously penalized on the economic as well as organizational level from judicial actions that can drag for years and regarding which they could be blameless; therefore, the suppression previewed from letter b) of paragraph 1 of the Article 2, harms the principle of transparency, penalizing the employers involved, without in any way strengthening the protections already previewed in favor of the workers. Therefore, on the prejudices ours will be a "yes" convinced. You cannot continue to put employers at risk of legal action because otherwise, as it has always happened and as it is happening, no entrepreneur will come to invest in Italy. And they do well, because with this Government you cannot invest in Italy. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u19	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education (Luigi Einaudi) in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u20	He asked Senator Malan to speak in order to explain a question for a preliminary ruling. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u21	Mr President, the decree-law is completely lacking the requirements of extraordinary necessity and urgency laid down in the Constitution. It is customary to include in the preamble of the decree-law the reasons why the Government decides to use this instrument. The reasons cited in this case are: It considers the extraordinary need and urgency to overcome the institute of ancillary work in order to counter elusive practices. We know that there are other reasons, but these are the reasons stated by the Government not in a circular about the opening of offices, but in a fundamental text to issue a decree-law. If we were to take them seriously, we would have to say that the Government totally disavowed the line taken by itself and the previous ones, which greatly expanded the use of the voucher, which had been introduced by the 2003 Biagi Act, during the second Berlusconi Government. The application aspects had extended its entry into force and the possible use of these vouchers for work in 2008. Then there were 500,000; in 2009, 2 million; in 2010, 9 million; in 2011, 15 million. This was the use that had been made during the Berlusconi Government that put in place these vouchers, whose use was limited in terms of duration, amounts and areas of use. Then came the great healers: the Monti Government, which extended it in 2012, with the so-called Fornero law; the Letta Government, which extended it and, finally, the Renzi Government, which extended it further and then come to tell us that we must fight abuse. In 2011 there were 15 million of these good work, commonly called vouchers; in 2012, with the action of the Monti Government, it was increased to 23 million; in 2013, to 40 million; in 2014, to 69 million, to reach in 2016 134 million, nine times more than it happened in 2011. They may not have been all abuses, but it is clear that there has been such an extension that it has allowed not only to use so many abuses, but it has probably encouraged many - it has also been said - to use one for a full day's work, rather than one for every hour of work. The damage, therefore, is even wider than the above mentioned INPS data. We have a situation in which the Government admits that it has always been wrong: it has wrong the Renzi Government, the Letta Government and the Monti Government. We didn't have to expand, but we had to go back. How does the government intervene? He could intervene by limiting the extension of vouchers and reducing the scope of application, for example, to what the Berlusconi Government had defined, which had given rise to a reasonable use of good work, which, to a large extent, went to cover the former black work that emerged or even some works that could not be carried out before and that could finally be carried out and also with an INPS coverage, so with guarantees for the workers, tranquility for the employer and some income for the tax. Instead, they wanted to abolish completely, but the reason is absolutely not the one indicated in the decree-law. This is a false cheek of the government, because the reason is to avoid the referendum promoted by the CGIL and other organizations. Too bad that the Constitution speaks of extraordinary necessity and urgency, objective and that it is evaluated in the interest of the country, not in the interest of a political party that is afraid of a referendum, in which a leftist force, like the CGIL, would come in contrast with the current Government, highlighting certain contrasts that certainly cannot be healed by this decree scam, but that at least are not sanctioned - this from the point of view of the Government - by another (note: another) referendarian defeat. Is it a serious way to behave? Is it a responsible way to behave on the part of those who govern the country and aspire to govern it for another five years and who, with the referendum of December 4, aspired to govern it forever, without accountable to the citizens and virtually abolishing the work of Parliament? I'd say he's not serious. It is not only politically serious, because this is not a subject that only concerns these classrooms and television debates, but from the point of view of reality: in fact, 134 million hours of work have been covered by good work in the last year, with 1,600,000 people involved who, from one day to the next, because of the decree-law, find themselves without an instrument to be able to practice their activities. This is the typical case where you could not make a decree-law. Not only do we lack the reasons for using a decree-law, but we simply could not do so. There are companies that have found themselves, since the first day of the decree-law to our examination and of course still today, in very serious difficulties, so they have been forced to resort again to undeclared work or even to give up the performance of certain jobs that are useful as well. Work is not only for the worker, but also for the community. With this measure we do exactly the opposite of what a responsible Government should do, that is we sabotage economic activities, in different sectors, for which an instrument of this kind is indispensable. How do you do that? Do you think that you can use the permanent contract to increase protection (magic job act) for gardening work, seasonal work in agriculture, for additional private lessons or for babysitting? Do you think you can do something like that? Absolutely not. We have turned to black, or to the blocking of certain activities, because it comes almost to say that it is not always possible to do black and this should be a positive thing; the problem is that if you put companies and citizens in a position to choose between black or nothing, maybe it was better the black. Instead, here we opt for nothing and in addition we cut the tax and social security revenues that good work, good or bad, guaranteed: 134 million vouchers in the last year mean 67 million INPS receipts that come in large part to cease. The government has written the false in the premises of the provision, stating that it denies all the politics that it really wants to carry on, because I want to see if the Democratic Party program for the next elections will foresee the total abolition of vouchers or if we return to the previous regime. I don't think so, and so the false is stated here. But there is also false in the technical report. The technical report says that there are no foreseeable reductions in tax and social security revenue, because the other instruments will be used. But the other tools are impossible to use. That is why the most appropriate thing, which we in Forza Italia ask for with our preliminary ruling, is to suspend this debate and to open a serious debate. It is not possible that with a decree-law the government goes much, but much beyond what the CGIL demanded in its referendum. The CGIL Work Rights Charter provides for vouchers. Is the government to the left of the CGIL? Unfortunately, this is not the case: more simply it is completely devoid of seriousness. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u22	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling for no more than ten minutes. Since no one asks to speak, we shall proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Verification of the statutory number MARTELLI (M5S). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of the draft law n. 2784 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred to you for a number of reasons by Senator Stefani and other senators (QP1), Senator Barani and other senators (QP2) and Senator Malan. It's not approved. Senator Ichino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u23	Mr President, the government's decision to resettle, with the decree-law on our examination, the discipline of good work according to its radical reform cannot be explained by an "abnormal" entity of the dissemination of this instrument. The 134 million good times sold by INPS during 2016, compared to the 43 billion hours worked in Italy in the same year, correspond to approximately 0.3 percent of the total; a fraction that cannot in any way be considered excessive, not even in relation to the segment of the accessory work. This does not mean that abuses have not also occurred. On this point, however, I would ask all my colleagues to make a small effort to try, at least this time, to put aside the amount of fatiosity that usually pollutes our debates. I believe that everyone in this House, from the extreme left to the extreme right, and even the promoters of the referendum, would peacefully agree on each of these two statements: a) good work has a negative effect where it allows the transformation of regular work into work under standard (ancillary work), resulting in a lowering of the treatment of the person involved; b) Good work plays a socially and economically positive role where black work emerges, ensuring greater transparency and protection for the person involved, or allow a meeting between supply and demand that would otherwise be prevented by too high transaction costs. If we agree - and I think no one can disagree - with both these statements, the problem lies in determining which part of the vouchers used during the last few years is in case (a) and which in case (b); because it is common ground that both cases have occurred to some extent. I have completed this assessment, which the social sciences allow to carry out with sufficient precision both as regards what is where, to understand what to do in a pragmatic way would be very easy. Instead, the promoters of the repealing referendum felt they had to act as if there were only cases a), and we ourselves are seeing a debate here between those who point out only cases a), as if cases b) did not exist, and those who point out only cases b), as if there were no cases a). The legislator thus risks losing an opportunity on which, instead, we can and must proceed pragmatically, rationally, based on the ability to know and measure economic and social phenomena; capacity which today is much more developed than it was in the last century. The hope is that, archived the pars destruens, of which the decree-law to our examination takes charge, a pars construens is activated immediately, in which, in addition to the Italian experience of the good work accomplished in the last eight years, consider carefully the important experiences that are offered to us in the international panorama, especially European, aimed at allowing, indeed to favor, the encounter between demand and supply of that "interstitial work" that poorly bear the transaction costs proper to the regular job, but that also can play a very important role in increasing the employment, the production of wealth and, therefore, also the well-being and safety of the families. I am thinking, for example, of the services to the family and the local communities that are paid in France, and in part also financed by the State, with the fully digitized system of the quèques-employees, or the short-term jobs, both overall and over the period of the unit of time (day, week, month), which in Germany have had a remarkable development under the label of the mini jobs s. With the vouchers - Michele Serra recently wrote in his column "L'Amaca" in the newspaper "la Repubblica" - "the contradiction master and worker has relatively little to do with it. The real contradiction to focus on is in this case citizen/burocracy. Millions of Italians would be well disposed" - writes Michele Serra - "to bring in clear much of the exorbitant economy in black, if it were possible to do so without going crazy for bureaucratic obligations, losing hours at the counters or listening to the music of call centers or trying to fill out indecipherable forms. There is a very serious fraud evasion, but there is also a exhaustion evasion. To pay half a day's work it is not possible that another half a day of bureaucratic stalking is required. Vouchers themselves are legal currency, i.e. fiscalized, which replaces the shady rolls of banknotes, the daily practice of the submerged economy; if then someone abuses or uses them outside the legal restrictions it is punished, but it is his fault and not the vouchers." The hope is that this common sense will be inspired by the next chapter of the Government's intervention on this matter. As for the very important subject of contracts, within twelve months a new code has come into force, of which important changes have already been discussed, and lately, with this decree-law, the sudden abolition of two rules on passive solidarity between the contractor and the contractor for work debts. This is a level of volatility in labour legislation which is incompatible with the requirements of orderly economic development and the protection of workers' rights. In the face of this volatility, it is time for the industrial relations system to regain its primary role as a source of labour relations discipline by means of bargaining at all levels. Today, state law allows this to happen: regional and business contracts today have the power to replace any law on employment relations, except for compliance with European and constitutional rules. It can therefore be thought that in the face of the vacuum determined in the legislative discipline in the matter of contracts or to the serious uncertainties in the matter of intermittent work, the business associations and trade unions assume the responsibility to dictate the discipline of these matters, concluding at the central level as many protocols and ensuring to all the enterprises that they think to make own the possibility to conclude business contracts that transpose the content of it, as has been done in 2012 with the protocol for the field of merchandisers and promoters. Today the pars construens of the legislative intervention on this matter could favor the recovery, from the collective bargaining, of the positive role that belongs to it, giving it explicitly the task of defining contents and modalities of joint solidarity between the client and contractor, sector by sector and company by company. Of course, for this reason it is also necessary for the negotiation itself to raise its head and assume its responsibilities to the full. But this will be the next chapter of this story. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u24	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u25	Mr President, we are talking about vouchers. But how does it all come about? For accessory work - occasional accessory-type services - in the original wording of Legislative Decree no. 276 of 2003, containing the normal implementation of the Biagi Act (No. 30 of 2003), were established specific areas of activity and well specific subjects that could carry out such activities. We read, in article 70 of Legislative Decree no. 276 of 2003, what are the areas of activity: small household work of extraordinary character, including home care for children and the elderly, sick or disabled; additional private teaching; small gardening works; realizations of social, sporting, cultural or charitable events; collaboration with public bodies and voluntary organizations for the carrying out of emergency work, such as those caused by disasters or sudden natural events, or solidarity. Article 71 then defined who could carry out this specific work. They can carry out ancillary work activities: unemployed for more than a year; housewives, students and pensioners; disabled persons and persons in recovery communities; non-EU workers, regularly resident in Italy, in the six months following the loss of work. So it is almost impossible to use the voucher tool to replace it with exquisitely subordinate relationships. But what happened? The first substantial amendment was introduced by Article 22 of Decree-Law No 112 of 2008. Then over time there have been many more, up to the present day with the total openness to all types of activities and to all subjects. You wanted this through the jobs act, the smoking gun that killed or wounded so many workers. Here is the smoking gun: article 1, paragraph 7, letter h ) of the jobs act where you have planned to extend the use of ancillary work services in the different production sectors, I repeat: in the different production sectors. You have premeditatedly distorted occasional accessory work and you have to wonder why. At this point I am helped by the Eurostat glossary which defines who is the person employed: those who are 15 years of age and who, during the reference week, have worked at least one hour in any activity involving a monetary consideration or in kind. I can imagine the "pinocchietto," the "liar of Florence," who, as soon as he knew that vouchers could make the occupation grow up, would have said: "O loser, let's fill Italy with this stuff!" This is the further demonstration that Italy no longer needs you, it no longer needs irresponsible people who, in order to show up the employment data raised thanks to vouchers, commanded to raze to the ground the work subordinate to part-time. Now where did you get to? We had in Italy a rule born to regulate those truly ancillary and occasional working relationships: you have distorted it by making the voucher the substitute for subordinate work, and now, in order only to avoid another electoral beat through the repealing referendum, you are repealing it tout court. Did you get electrocuted on the road to Damascus? No! It is not true that you have repented, also because you have defended her so much, as long as you could, shamefully defended her. Dear Italians, do you want to know how the Presidency of the Council of Ministers has defended itself? Do you really know how he thinks about vouchers? Listen, because these are dangerous people for all of us: he asked us to declare the nullity of the repealing referendum - listen because I am reading what the Constitutional Court has written and what the Presidency of the Council has written to save itself - in particular on the assumption of the need for a regulation of ancillary work as a constitutional interest in order to be the legislation in question marked by the assumption of protecting the dignity of the worker (to protect the dignity of the worker!), the failure of which would prejudice the protection given by the constitutional principles (even the Constitution has been inconvenient) referred to in Articles 1, 4, 35 and 36. Let's see, let's see, let's see! Article 1: "Italy is a democratic Republic, based on work (...)" In other words, they say that if vouchers are abolished, you will go and undo this article because you think that Italy is a democratic Republic based on vouchers. [[Applause from Senator Paglini]] That's the problem! Then there is Article 4: "The Republic recognizes to all citizens the right to work and promotes the conditions that make this right effective (...)." 11:13 a.m. (Follow PUGLIA). I mean, the voucher promotes the right to work. You're dangerous! Article 35: "The Republic protects work in all its forms and applications (...)" Does the voucher protect the job? You're dangerous! And then the apotheosis: you have uncomfortable article 36. Listen, listen: The worker is entitled to remuneration proportionate to the quantity and quality of his work and in any case sufficient to ensure that he or she and the family have a free and dignified existence........................................................................................................................... With the voucher? Free and dignified? These are dangerous! That's how they feel. You are dangerous: you are repealing, but soon (I already know), when the Constitutional Court is pronounced, it will give the pass and the referendum will no longer be ratified, you will do another scum, because you think so. You're dangerous, go home! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u26	Senator Puglia, you use language that suits the institution we represent. [[Protests of Senators Bottici and Bulgarelli]] Senator Bottici, please. He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so. [[Senator Taverna's protests.]] Senator Taverna, allow Senator Marin to perform his intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u27	Madam President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today with this measure, if there is still a need to reiterate this (because there are so many elements and in particular the data on youth unemployment and general unemployment), the failure of Renzi's job act, of the abusive Premier. In 2015 Renzi extended the vouchers further, extending from 5,000 to 7,000 euros the expenses that could be made. In haste and fury, in continuity with the Renzi Government, the Gentiloni Government Silveri decided, on the afternoon of March 17 (if I remember the date), to abolish everything: "who has already bought them can use them until December 31 of the current year, but after we block them." You have to wonder why. Let's start with a short history of vouchers. Were they useful or not? We remember that they were introduced for the first time in 2003 with the so-called Biagi law, unfortunately sadly famous in some respects. This law determined the use of vouchers only in certain sectors, such as family or agriculture. Then this use was extended in 2008, and all governments followed interventions, first with the so-called Fornero law of the Monti Government, then by the Letta Government; finally with Renzi, as we said, and this is where the real failure was, because the failure is political. Other colleagues have pointed out and other interventions by our Group will later remember those who in particular use vouchers: 67 percent - and I say this to the majority who vote on this measure and assume this responsibility - vouchers are used by pensioners, as second jobs and unemployed people who do not find room in the world of work. And what are these people gonna do now? And where are we gonna send them to find space? Without thinking about the sectors, such as tourism, which make extensive use of them: think of seasonal workers. But it is not that if businesses cannot use vouchers and people cannot take advantage of this opportunity and this way of finding work, they will find work differently: there is no space in the world of work with continuous and fixed-term jobs, unfortunately, because the jobs act was a " flops act." You have acted for purely political reasons (and that is the true meaning of my speech), and to avoid the referendum of the CGIL. The season of the abusive premier Renzi is in some ways also fun: great ads but, later, the PD, the "company," has returned exactly what it was; it has returned under the great wing of the union. The CGIL says it wants to make a referendum and another electoral blow awaits you, like the ones you took from the administration. But that is not the issue either: the point is that, unfortunately, between choosing the world of work and the people who need it, and choosing the big voice of the union with the referendum, you have once again chosen the union. She first remembered a colleague from another Group as it was increasing the use of the voucher. It was work for some people and a "white" job: as we said before, a share (67 percent) is used by unemployed, retired and as a second job by those with the main job can not manage to maintain the family in a dignified way and wants to pull up their sleeves and work. A share of more than 30 percent was then made up of those who kept a social security position open, i.e. who acquired the right to a pension. I don't want to talk about the pension level in this country, because even in this area, the government has done nothing. So what will the repeal of vouchers lead to? It will lead to an increase in unemployment, if that is all right, and, as we have heard before, also to an increase in undeclared work. Have you at least planned an instrument to replace them? As has been said in this House, there are more than one million people using these instruments. There are people who want to work: unemployed, pensioners and people with a second job in most cases. What are we gonna do? Will you leave them at home? Is this the left-wing government that leaves the workers at home? You can discuss the usefulness of vouchers. In our opinion, they are a useful tool because they gave work to people. Of course, the institute must be regulated and in the world of work you should do what was not done with the jobs act (which, as we said until boredom, is a flops act). You should have come here at least with a proposal and a solution. What is the fall point of the measure in question? What will increase the unemployed and undeclared work? But is this your contact with the world of work? Why is the measure taken? Only and exclusively because a union raises its voice and wants to lead you to a referendum? After years in which the government has frankly produced nothing, Parliament must regain its role and dignity. We cannot abolish an instrument that has proved useful (as much as it needs to be improved and on which we can reason) if there are no alternative solutions. Just read the work consultants' documents: to date there are no alternative regulatory solutions. They don't exist. Vouchers will not find alternative solutions: there will be no alternative. The people involved will either not work or fall victim to undeclared work, or stay at home. We said who uses vouchers: who does not work, who has a job that is not enough to support the family and pensioners. In fact, the theme of work and poverty are connected, constituting a puzzle that must be together. I shall conclude, Madam President. This government couldn't put together a single piece of this puzzle and produced nothing. In fact, if it can disintegrate. You have not even come to this House with an alternative proposal, but obviously the CGIL has not yet given it to you. When the CGIL gives it to you, bringing the world of work back thirty years, you will make it your own. You're a government that doesn't do anything in this field either. [[Applause from Senator Piccoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u28	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and the teachers of the Secondary School of First Degree (Dante Alighieri) in Paganica, in the province of L'Aquila, who are today visiting the Senate and attending our works. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Angioni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u30	Madam President, my fellow senators, Mr. Representative of the Government, I believe that the main element of satisfaction deriving from the assessment of Decree-Law No 25 of 17 March 2017 is to pursue the objective of seriously resuming the theme of ancillary and occasional work, overcoming the temptation to make once again of the subject of work a confrontation between preconceived and rigid positions, very often without adherence to reality. The referendum is one of the main instruments of democratic involvement provided for in our Constitutional Charter, but it is not always the most appropriate instrument to allow citizens themselves to make a fully conscious choice on matters that require insights, competences and ability to distinguish between different situations, which cannot always be reduced to a choice between a yes and a no on the basis of the referendum question. I say this with deep respect for the institution of the referendum and with deep respect for the union that proposed the referendum question. With regard to the danger of the government, even with this decree-law, I must honestly say that I am quite amused to hear some imaginative reconstructions from some political force that, just a few years ago, demanded the abolition of the unions: now I feel that political force very careful, instead, to the danger of a government that pays attention also to that world. The government therefore made the choice of repealing tout court a discipline that could also be rewritten. They are among those who have long thought that the vouchers, conceived by the 2003 Biagi reform with the aim of helping to bring out a part of the black work and to give coverage, in particular insurance, to some forms of occasional work of ancillary type, have in many cases become instead, from their application (so from 2008 to today), tools of precariousness, if not of real exploitation of the workers. A tool, therefore, often distorted with respect to the original function and abused in its application. Often the voucher in these years, rather than an element of contrast to black work, has been used precisely to hide a lasting working relationship and certainly not an accessory type. Having said that, however, I believe that we must be clear and tell the truth to the citizens, even today in the examination of Decree-Law No 25. Today formally resolved, with this measure the issue of vouchers, the issue of precarious work is certainly not resolved, especially of the most disadvantaged groups of workers, especially of the youngest and even less is solved the problem of access to the labour market, especially here of the youngest, and not even that of the so-called good work. Vouchers have become central in the debate on the regulation of labour in our country, but perhaps more for a symbolic issue than real, which risks being distorted in the reading that we give of the situation of the labour market in our country. As my colleague said just now, the more than 130 million vouchers used last year in our country represent a marginal percentage compared to the total hours of work produced in our country. So there remains the whole problem of almost 40% of young unemployed people and of a general percentage of unemployment still too high in our country. Moreover, after the vouchers, the problem of finding an instrument that can objectively cover from an insurance point of view for the worker, but also of fiscal emergence for the employer, those forms of work that cannot objectively be included in ordinary employment contracts, remains open. In my opinion it is wrong - and it is deeply wrong - who says that all work can be included in ordinary employment contracts. In recent years, Madam President, together with a number of colleagues, we have urged the Ministry of Labour to monitor the misuse of vouchers and it must be acknowledged that Minister Poletti has, in the meantime, promoted, last September, the measure that, by imposing their traceability, has made the misuse of these instruments more complicated. Among other things, Minister Poletti raised the question of their use in this Senate Chamber a few months ago in a transparent and strict manner, recalling the inspiring principles that gave rise to vouchers and committing themselves to bringing them back into categories of work and types of workers compatible with those principles. Remember that, before the Fornero reform, vouchers were intended for a limited audience of disadvantaged workers (especially students, pensioners and long-term unemployed) and especially for small domestic gardening and cleaning of buildings. It must be said that already the measure of September 2016, that on the traceability of vouchers, was producing its effects: it is recorded by the number of vouchers sold in the first months of this year, far less than in the first months of 2016. Personally, I am satisfied that we will not have to deal with the referendum on this matter, even if I have not completely overcome reservations and concerns about the choice of total abolition before a new discipline is introduced. That is why I think it is necessary for us to work immediately - as the Government has undertaken to do - to identify a new instrument that certainly has less contra-indications than the previous one, but which responds to the needs to which the vouchers themselves originally wanted to respond. I am sure that this work must be the result of an open and constructive confrontation between the Government and the social partners, which applies to vouchers but which must resume in a fair and continuous manner all the discipline that concerns labour law in our country and the tools to create in general new and good quality work. I believe that this is the most pressing request that citizens make to the whole of Parliament. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u31	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, the decree-law before this House today deals with a very sensitive subject, namely vouchers and ancillary work, on which the media and people have been discussing in the Commission for a long time and on which clarification must be made, first of all through the history that has already been told in this House. As the rapporteur, Senator Parente, has already said, and I thank her for her work as our group leader in the Committee on Employment, the vouchers were set up in 2003 by the Biagi Act, in order to simplify the engagement for so-called jobs. They began to be actually usable since 2008, when only half a million were used, a number to remember. Since then, following the legislative changes that have followed and the diffusion of its knowledge, the use of this instrument has increased over time and sales have fivefold already in the second year (to reach 2.7 million in 2009, which then became 9.7 million in 2010, 15.3 in 2011, 23.8 in 2012, 40.7 in 2013, 68.5 in 2014, 108 in 2015 and 134 in 2016). It is therefore clear that it cannot be attributed to the last governments that I have supported in Parliament, in these four years (nor to the one Led, nor to the one Renzi, nor - let alone - to the one Gentiloni Silveri), to be the legislative fathers of this instrument. I think it helps sometimes to clarify and remember. It should be noted that a debate has begun right under the Renzi Government in the Executive and the Democratic Party, in the Commission and in the parliamentary places, to introduce corrective measures, to limit abuses and distortions. This happened, for example, through traceability introduced in September 2016, which is delivering good results. This is because the successive governments have nevertheless felt the responsibility to adopt corrective measures. The second figure is that despite the spread of vouchers in recent years, their use remains limited and if you consider that in Italy the hours of work overall carried out in 2016 were little less than 43 billion, it is clear that such work represents a really tiny fraction of the market, at most, as I have already said, is equal to 0.3%. The workers paid with the voucher, according to the last note of the Parliamentary Budget Office, in a period from 2008 to 2016, would be only 5.6% of the total number of employees and independents. Ancillary work therefore remains a marginal component of the world of work and does not represent a parallel market. For the fragmentation of services, the discontinuity of lenders, which are not always the same people, the wide audience of companies located throughout the country, in all economic sectors, the voucher is not an alternative to subordinate work. For this reason, it should be said that its abolition will not lead to the creation of new jobs. In addition, according to INPS data, accessory workers are mostly non-exclusive workers; they are about 70 percent of people for whom the voucher was an opportunity for further gain, but certainly not the main source of income. They are therefore pensioners, recipients of income support measures, employed in other employers, both public and private, domestic and even self-employed, engaged in activities beyond the boundaries of collective bargaining, the traditional contractual forms that they had and still need more flexible regulatory instruments. The accessory work has been a useful tool for them and for many families, businesses and also for many other workers who prefer, while waiting for a stable job, to seize in the meantime the occasional job opportunities, because they are so active that they are also available to additional benefits compared to the main job. It has already been said that the most positive effect of vouchers has been to carry out work in a transparent way, with contribution coverage, which would otherwise have been covered by the black economy and could not even have taken place. In addition, through a more flexible regulatory tool, vouchers have solved some practical problems for employers and workers. Of course, abuses and distortions have occurred: in some cases the aims for which this instrument was intended have changed, due to limitations or constraints, often not clear and sufficient. It is also plausible that in some cases the engagement with vouchers has replaced ordinary work. One aspect to review is the fact that the cost of vouchers is low compared to other forms of work because the social security contribution to them is lower than that of ordinary employment relationships. This is a mistake to be corrected by providing, if anything, that for highly flexible forms of work, social security contributions may be higher than ordinary contributions. The government has intervened and this is very important. Also for these reasons, in order to correct the errors and abuses described, the Government has decided to repeal this instrument and not a simple modification. A restrictive revision of the voucher discipline would not have guaranteed the annulment of the referendum proposed for their repeal and, as is certainly known to all those who have spoken, although it seems to me that someone has forgotten it, the rules rejected by a referendum are not only deleted from the legal order, but, at least in the immediate future, they are prevented from reproposing it. It would therefore be prevented from repositioning an instrument similar to this. Different is the case of one law - in this case one decree - which repeals another. We can always return to the same subject more immediately with another measure to improve the instrument. This is the position taken very responsibly by the Government and the majority. The basis of this decree is, therefore, a question of opportunity, which needs to be taken into account. First of all there is the awareness that, however, many forms of occasional work, so far covered by vouchers, will not be completely discovered, but can be carried out in other contractual forms such as, for example, the intermittent employment contract, which will be reviewed in the age group of the perceptors and that it will be able to meet these needs. Secondly, there is the guarantee by the Government, which is already working, of alternative measures. There is, in fact, the will to intervene with a different instrument of adjustment of the occasional accessory work that takes into account all the aspects considered and what did not work well in the voucher system. Think of a measure that, in my opinion and other experts in the sector, takes account, for example, of the different needs and contexts and therefore evaluates the differences: the work of domestic collaboration, carried out within households, on the one hand, and the occasional work, carried out within companies, on the other. The measure must also take into account the greatest need for protection for some workers, especially on fronts such as social security. All this must be combined with an enhanced system of controls and verified through full traceability with a dedicated platform, expressly excluding the use of vouchers in contracts (direct or indirect) and in public administration, legislatively clarifying the prohibition of administration. Ladies and gentlemen, let me say one last thing about this subject. As in other cases - I think about good school and jobs act - on vouchers has become bitter disinformation, I don't know if desired. Of course, the information is very incorrect and instrumental. There has also been a block of principle of who, perhaps because still linked to an old working idea, refused to analyze the phenomenon of accessory work, so as to correct its negative aspects, separating them from the positive ones and instead preferred to propose its total repeal. I am thinking, for example, of the CGIL, which promoted the referendum and not only made a very wide use of vouchers, but in its proposal for a law "The Charter of Universal Labour Rights" makes an explicit reference precisely to occasional subordinate work: a contradiction, in my opinion. As stated in a recent interview by former Prime Minister Romano Prodi, "an elementary wisdom would have advised to stand around a table to seek a concrete solution." He adds: "I remain of the idea that if we want to get out of the crisis we need a strong union not only in the elaboration of proposals, but also in the ability to interpret the common interest." Unfortunately, this has been a missed opportunity for comparison, which we hope will be resumed during the elaboration of the new tool for adjusting the accessory work that takes into account the new working environment in which we move and move in the coming years. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u33	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this decree the issues are vouchers and responsibilities in procurement. The problem of vouchers has long since begun to be discussed in the working committee. A number of amendments had been tabled. The awareness of some distortions and criticalities related to this instrument has led several parliamentarians to think that this institution should be revised. Vouchers - I would like to point out - are not an instrument introduced by the last governments: neither the Renzi Government, nor the Led Government or Silver Gentiles are the creators of the voucher instrument. Vouchers were introduced by the Biagi Act in 2003. What the Renzi Government has done has been to make adjustments that could improve the application of vouchers, limit their abuses through traceability, increase the maximum ceilings of the annual compensation for individual workers and remove the wording of only occasional work. We must be aware that there is an accessory working group and small jobs that escapes the links of collective bargaining, traditional contractual forms, and that it needs more flexible tools for the employer, especially for forms of work between individuals. The Government has decided to opt for a repeal by virtue of a referendum campaign that was expected to be extremely painful and difficult for the country. The idea of moving towards the repeal I think was dictated by the fear of losing a referendum because of an ideological confrontation, as well as by the desire to avoid spending economic resources that some municipalities have already spent, which today are in fact wondering how the competent Ministry intends to redo the expenses faced - at this point we can say - improperly. In all cases to the referendum outcome, whether it had led to their repeal or to their maintenance, it would have been necessary to revise the voucher institute in order to relegate them to a more stringent and effective use according to the ratio with which they were established. Vouchers account for 0.3 percent of the entire mountain hours worked in Italy in the labour market, according to the 2015 estimates, for a total of 88 million vouchers collected, compared to a total of 29 billion hours worked by all employees present in Italy. In 2016, the quorum increased to 143 million hours worked compared to 43 billion hours worked by the entire workforce: however, the ratio does not change and it is always 0.3% of the total time. They were not a fundamental component and therefore could not be the cause of all evils. Abrogating vouchers, we have a system that is not a fundamental pillar collapsed, but it was still an instrument that, if it had been used correctly and sparingly, would have been very useful. Many forms of occasional work, up to now covered by vouchers, will not be completely discovered, but can still be carried out in other contractual forms. To date many companies and productive economic realities have used vouchers, although they have available different contractual forms, more protective for workers, such as seasonal jobs or work on call or intermittent. It is true that such forms of contract are more burdensome for the firm, but certainly more protective and profitable for the worker. The age limit remains at the moment: unlike vouchers, open at any age, the call contract provides, in fact, that the client can obtain workers under the age of twenty-four or over fifty-five years. In this case we could also rethink, in the light of the absence of vouchers, the possibility of an extension of age, if not even a lack of limits. At the moment, however, these companies will be able to avail themselves of these existing contracts. What drives me, as a representative of Italy of the Values, to vote positively on this measure, is to know that the Government has the will to find alternative measures; indeed, I have the certainty that there are already some hypotheses on the table that in all cases I hope will be discussed with the social partners, as well as with the competent Commissions, giving credit and follow-up to the debate produced in the same. We hope that the solutions proposed will take into account the different needs and contexts, between the work of domestic collaboration, the work within households on the one hand, and the occasional work that takes place within businesses on the other. It will be necessary to consider the greatest need for protection for workers, for example on the social security front. If we think that the 10 euro voucher today is a savings for the employer, looking at it from the worker's point of view we realize that this savings is all at his expense, because he will have a very low pension. It is true that it is occasional work, but the discontinuity we see today in employment and with a social security system of the contributory type puts the pension system itself in serious crisis. In fact, only 13% of vouchers go to the pension adjustment fund. Workers who have worked with vouchers, perhaps with a voucher covering only one hour, when they have worked more hours (so only a part of black "whitening"), will then have hunger pensions and at the time they will be at retirement age, with the various needs that probably the age now mature will present, will end up at the expense of the community. The new formula that will be invented and designed to replace vouchers, will have to take into account that the contributory pillar must be increased not only for the benefit of the worker, but also for the benefit of the country, since our life expectancy continues to increase and it is necessary to guarantee workers the possibility of a decent pension (to which we arrive, given the retirement age, almost with a foot in the pit) with which to live quietly their old age; therefore, not at the expense of society and the community. It is necessary to ensure that this money ends up in the contributory system and can represent a greater quid in order to preserve a possible future pension and to ensure that people of adulthood do not then have to go begging for a service or recommend themselves for it, but can have the money necessary to pay for it. It is therefore obvious that today's savings from the employer then become a cost to the whole community. The value of vouchers, which we, as Italy of Values, consider important to preserve, even with these new contractual forms, is the simplicity of management by the client, whether private or enterprise. Moreover, precisely because they were used to pay occasional and occasional jobs, the amount that the worker collected from these payments, being less than 7,000 euros net per year, was not added to his personal or family income, so it was not burdened by IRPEF (they were indeed clean, they were an income supplement). We know that it is not only the cost that discourages regular forms of contract, but also the excessive bureaucracy. The will of the Government, reiterated in recent days, to intervene on the ancillary work services I hope takes into account all these aspects and takes into account what did not work with vouchers, to produce new more effective tools, addressing the problem in a responsible and reasonable way, respecting the parties (employer and worker). Costs and benefits must also be affordable. With regard to Article 2 of this decree-law, it restores joint responsibility, i.e. it restores an equal responsibility between contractor and contractor towards construction workers. The client will be asked to respond for any violations committed by the contractor against the worker. As a result, the contractor will be required to exercise more stringent control over the company to which a contract is awarded. The rule of Legislative Decree No 276 of 2003 which, on the one hand, regulated the possibility for national collective bargaining to derogate from the regulatory provisions on solidarity, but on the other, provided for a procedural mechanism allowing the client to invoke the benefit of the prior discussion of the principal debtor. Now, with regard to this choice the companies of the National Construction Association (ANCE) have expressed themselves negatively, which considers it a mistake to return to the old rules. According to President Gabriele Buia, in fact, the current legislation does not in any way reduce the guarantees for workers, but rather strengthens the competence of the social partners to identify more stringent control instruments in the contract. Moreover, the National Association of Construction Manufacturers says that the repeal of the obligation to call into question all the enterprises involved in the bond of solidarity harms the right of the regular and correct enterprises to know immediately the start of possible judicial actions to protect also the workers. The principle of prior discussion of the principal debtor is also removed, further penalising all companies in the production chain and not directly the principal debtor, which in fact is further de-accounted for. I'll finish. The president of ANCE believes that with this choice a step back has been taken that damages the correct enterprises, which are precisely the backbone of our country system. The problem had to be solved in the context of contractual policies, through the dialogue between trade unions and companies. We will see how much more we can produce in this parliamentary term, given the tight deadlines. In all cases, I repeat the choice, as Italy of the Values, to vote in favour of the conversion of this decree-law. We will endeavour to correct these possible rules, so that there is room for rules that are certainly more protective, in compliance with the weak parties and therefore with the worker. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Piccoli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, vouchers were introduced in Italy in 2003, during the second Berlusconi Government, through the Biagi-Maroni law, implemented by Legislative Decree No 276 of 2003. The purpose of this law was to facilitate citizens who have not yet entered the labour market in undeclared work. Thanks to flexibility and easy use, they have become a very useful tool for companies to cope with periods with intense work peaks, guaranteeing flexibility. In an INPS report, updated to the first half of 2016, the ancillary work was analysed: it is estimated that, from August 2008 (start of the experimentation on the use of vouchers for short-term sales) to 30 June 2016, 347 million vouchers of a nominal amount of ten euros were sold. Dizzying numbers, testifying to the effectiveness of the instrument. Since testing for the 2008 harvests, the system of good work has gradually expanded in different ways. The Fornero reform - as the rapporteur recalled in her report - with Decree-Law No. 83 of 2012 leads to an extension of the scope of good work and their de facto extension to all productive sectors. Then, in 2013, the Letta Government, with the conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 76, changes the legislative definition of ancillary work by eliminating the meaning of a merely occasional nature. In June 2015, then, the Renzi Government, with the jobs act (more precisely with Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2015), confirms the failure of the characteristic of occasionality and its extension for any type of activity (excluding the scope of the execution of works or services contracts), raising from 5000 to 7000 euros the maximum annual compensation in vouchers per worker. Ladies and gentlemen, if it is in part true and acceptable that vouchers have been used improperly, at the expense of more structured forms of work, it is also true - and it should be stressed - that the increase in the sale of the tools themselves has gone hand in hand with the progressive legislative extension of the areas of use of the ancillary work. The data reported in the above-mentioned study, in fact, show a growth rate of 66 percent in 2015 and 40 percent between the first six months of 2015 and the first six months of 2016. It is clear, therefore, that the lesser or greater effectiveness of this instrument derives from the regulatory framework governing its use, i.e. the ability of the law to correctly and clearly define the scope of application. Now, instead, in a hurry, you propose to convert to law a decree-law that eliminates tout court the voucher without having a replacement tool ready. In short, instead of solving the problem, recalibrate its use, modify it, remodulate it, we delete it completely, depriving workers and businesses of a flexible and transparent means, demonstrating that you are light years away from the world of work and totally incapable of an adequate reading of the economic and social reality of the country. It should be remembered that vouchers have been an effective tool for many companies that have to hire additional staff at times of particularly intense activity; they have been income integration for many citizens, as well as a tool that regularizes niches of work exposed to the risk of the blackout. I think that, instead of looking at abolition, it was enough to return to the original idea for which good work had been designed and regulated, if anything foreseeing their remodulation in the amount, duration and with respect to the target subjects. By doing so, however, you are forcing companies to carry out all the heavy red tape also for the occasional short-term benefits, discouraging recruitment and favouring the submerged. I would like to emphasise the small tour operators, who saw in the voucher a useful means to cope with the particularly intense periods of high season work. The irresponsible abolition of the voucher, with the summer season getting closer, currently creates uncertainty to an entire sector without providing an alternative: how will all those tourism operators like small hoteliers, bed & breakfast owners, small restaurant owners, cope with the high season period? I hope that the Government will have clear and ready ideas and will not be found unprepared, perhaps hiding behind the fact that vouchers purchased until March are valid until 31 December; it is clear that in March it is still too early to make forecasts about summer tourist presences. All of this is aggravated by the fact that this path is being traveled for the sole purpose of overcoming the referendum of the CGIL, which risked becoming yet another political defeat for the PD and its old and new secretary. In doing so, you do not realize that you create yet another damage to the country. The abolition of vouchers will not only not solve the problems that have occurred in their use, but will generate negative consequences for workers and businesses. The umpteenth shortsightedness of reality, yet another missed opportunity in the field of employment policies, yet another bad figure of this government in the matter of reforms. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u36	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u37	Madam President, the League is not new to voting against this issue. Our history has several votes against: in the proceedings we voted against, in 2012, the notorious Fornero law; we voted against in 2013, with Letta, when the criterion for calculating the replacement remuneration of the sectors was another; we voted against when it was erased the merely occasional nature and extended the use of vouchers to all production sectors; and we voted against the jobs act, when the possibility of using vouchers up to 7,000 euros was increased, which led to an abuse, as has already been said several times, and then to the request by the union member of the referendum. Voucher abuse. In 2012 their use was liberalised: anyone could be paid through vouchers and any type of company could buy them to pay their workers. This system, so flexible, allowed a number of abuses: some companies, instead of hiring employees, relied on paid workers with vouchers, who alternated with the machines that would normally have to be used by a single worker, with a regular employment contract. According to our group, the government acted quickly, writing a decree-law to say the least. The repealing intervention seems hasty and inaccurate; hardly a ministerial clarification, which has no force of law, will make applicable the administrative sanctions provided for in case of violation of the procedural obligations provided for by the legislation on vouchers. It was not the institution of the voucher to cancel, but the abuse that was done with it. This decree-law has created a huge entrepreneurial alarm, so much so that many trade associations have complained that many members, who have purchased many vouchers that can be used until the end of this year, do not feel fully protected for the way in which the transitional period has been regulated. The only reason the government wanted to get rid of it completely is certainly to preserve political capital for major battles, and we will take a later step on that. For months there has been talk of the exponential growth of vouchers and the consequent need to intervene legislatively to bring the instrument of good work back to the regulatory framework and the spirit with which it was introduced in our system by the Biagi reform, that is to facilitate some sectors in the use of occasional labour and, at the same time, regularize the temporary and ancillary benefits, until then submerged activities. The vouchers were an indispensable contractual tool for the tourism sector (and there were great complaints from the professionals), hotel, receptive, agriculture, where even the situation is dramatic, and especially for families, who need support to care for their children or their elderly or sick family members. It was the reckless enlargement that allowed in fact, progressively over the years, until the reform contained in Law No. 92 of 2012 - the so-called Fornero reform that has done several damage in this country - and then in Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2015, implementing the reform of the jobs act, the recourse to ancillary work for any type of activity, contributing to their distorted use and their abuse. But none of this has been thought of by the Government, through the repeal of the vouchers tout court; it has not assessed the inevitable negative consequences for the many families, the numerous workers and the various enterprises for which this type of contract represents a fundamental system of remuneration; it has not calculated the inevitable increase of the black work; it has not considered, although recognized in the past by the Minister of Labour, that the employment of the vouchers had to be reduced and not already eliminated. The government's sole and main concern, on the other hand, was to prevent the referendum being held in the referendum, following the nullaosta of the Constitutional Court of 11 January, and so it legislated urgently for the total cancellation of vouchers in such a hasty way that it neglected the normative vacuum created compared to the planned extension of use, by the end of this year, of the vouchers already purchased at the date of entry into force of the decree, on 17 March 2017. An improvisation that connotes the decree-law of different profiles of unconstitutionality that we have expressed with our Senator Stefani, regardless of the vote of the Assembly. Our proposals, contained in the amendments, are aimed at ensuring a legal framework for occasional work, restoring vouchers for specific sectors such as seasonal work in agriculture or home care, and reaffirming the anticipated regulations for their use until 31 December 2017. We are very sorry, Mr President, that none of the many Members who are banning policies to combat undeclared work and support families has pointed the finger at the risk of such a repeal, and I am clearly referring to my colleagues in the majority. This institute has had some evolutions: it has moved from a job often exploited and paid with vouchers to an exploited job, yes, but in black. This is the evolution that PD has made this instrument because, having expanded its meshes, it has led to the request for referendum and therefore for fear of losing and losing consent, it has thrown everything away with this decree. For his part, President Gentiloni Silveri in Cernobbio said: "Cancelling vouchers we decided to avoid Italy months of ideological confrontation, but we will respond to the needs of a serious regulation for occasional and occasional work. We are already working on this and we will do it together. No, dear President, you will do it once more alone as you are used to doing, as you always do. You don't give a damn about our opinion and directions. Sometimes they are free tips that you don't know how to use. You canceled everything because the ideological confrontation would lead you to a new Caporetto. A defeat that from the battle of Caporetto stands out only and exclusively for the date, because the defeat of Caporetto dates back to 24 October 1917. December 4, 2016 is another date, passed to history. Caporetto is used as a synonym of disastrous defeat: the largest military defeat of the Italian Army. On 4 December 2016, it is synonymous with political defeat, the disastrous defeat of the PD Government on constitutional reform. They're both gonna go down in history. You say you've avoided an extenuating trench war. Rumor has it that there have been strong pressure from the former Premier, who had also defended the vouchers until recently. We did not understand whether Renzi wanted to avoid a second referendary defeat or a sound bang in Congress, since the two will overlap dangerously for him. Most likely, the government would have fucked her in the referendum. However, what did it cost to sit at a table and modify this tool? What was the cost of talking to the social partners and oppositions? Why was Confindustria not involved? The latter was involved only and exclusively when the referendum campaign on the Constitution took place, when the President tore his clothes to support the "yes". Did he miss his face? It may be; it is certain that you have now lost much more than your face: you have lost credibility and reliability, and all this the world of work certainly did not need. I would like to tell you about a girl who works in a bar and who is desperate about the cancellation of vouchers. She is now 22 years old and is employed with the work on call: a huge disaster for her; she works six days a week for eight hours a day, and this is already a distortion. Now he doesn't even have the vouchers anymore and, looking at me, he asked me: "How do you think, dear senator, that I can start a family with a system of this kind?" I didn't know how to answer that question, because I would have to start giving you an intervention like what I just did, but I didn't feel like it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u38	We welcome the students and teachers of the State Institute of Figline Valdarno, in the province of Florence, who are today visiting the Senate and attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u39	Senator Berger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u40	Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor to express my opposition, which in its content is a double opposition: I am opposed to the holding of a repealing referendum and I am opposed to the deletion of the instrument of good work. Well knowing that only the cancellation of vouchers can eliminate the referendum, may I express some consideration about it. The voucher is a tool that has facilitated the encounter between demand and supply in specific sectors of the labour market, without distorting however the proportions between the different types of relationships, but creating the possibility of legal employment. The data on their use show this: on the country's total hours of work, they weighed only 0.3 percent. All this tells us that their explosion concerns the emergence of a significant share of undeclared work and not the fact, as some say, of being competitive with other contractual forms, because in these years both have grown: vouchers like jobs. Of course, abuses and distorted uses have not been lacking, but some cases do not justify the total cancellation of the instrument. It is as if, because of road accidents, cars are being abolished rather than intensified controls, sanctions are being tightened, and safe driving is being educated. It would have been sufficient to revisit an instrument that - it should be remembered - has already been the subject of an important review also at the regulatory level with the jobs act: from the prohibition of use in contracts to traceability. There is no group in this Parliament that does not make statements every day about the need to create employment opportunities and support income. But employment is created by making processes easier and by flexible implementation. The vouchers have given the regulatory framework to be able to enjoy unexpected and unplanned situations, neither programmable. They have been an income creation tool to coupon dry, without being further harassed by the tax. These days we read of babysitters, domestic workers, teachers who hold private lessons and university students wondering if there is an alternative to doing their activity in black. But we are also talking about entire economic sectors such as tourism, agriculture and related services, whose main needs are flexibility and speed in order to be able to act, thus also creating employment in the area of legality. The truth is that the CGIL has transformed the voucher into a symbol for a totally ideological battle, far from the real lives of people, whose reasons must be sought only in the political struggle and not in the pursuit of the general interest. Unfortunately, in Italy there is a tendency to dismantle, unlike the constructive activities carried out by the unions in other European countries, for example in Germany. For this reason, I understand, even if I do not share, the political assessment carried out by the Government to avoid another period of lacerations and divisions that the referendum would have involved. Italy needs optimism, prospects for the future and initiatives to promote employment and not already the repeal of valid instruments that a union does not like. We are about to enter the summer season, that of full activity for tourist facilities and the agricultural sector. It is therefore urgent to find a new instrument to meet the needs of these sectors. For this reason, I strongly hope that we will immediately get to work in order to find an instrument that can respond as urgently as possible to this specific need of the labour market, called casual work. There are also other areas to ask, such as families, the world of volunteering, public bodies, municipalities, social cooperatives and others. There are models in Europe that, with some modifications, could also be good in our country. I am thinking of the French model that cuts costs, their origins, those who need and have the right to be supported, such as families and non-profit organisations. For economic sectors we see the German model, with mini jobs at 450 euros per month. In Italy there is a law in force, in the matter of intermittent work or on call, that with some bureaucratic changes could come useful. We need a simple tool to use, with little bureaucracy or keeping at least the same bureaucratic relationship as the vouchers. I would like to say once again that it was a serious mistake to say that vouchers were the form of underpaid work. Instead, they were an opportunity to bring out the submerged, offer opportunities for a very first income for students and give an opportunity to round up the income to the elderly and housewives. The economy does not ask for work below cost, but asks for the possibility of hiring without great bureaucratic elements, in a fast and flexible way. In the DEF, Mr Undersecretary, there is talk of a replacement measure by July. It is late, it must be done before, by the end of May, knowing also that, in order to open the way to alternative provisions, existing ones must be deleted. A number of agendas have been presented to the Commission in this direction. It would be a positive signal if they were also approved with a positive opinion of the Government and I can announce that, if they were accepted, on our part, despite the opposition to the decree, there will be no vote against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pegorer is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u41	Madam President, the decree on the abolition of vouchers that we are called upon to debate today calls for a deeper reflection on the issues of labour legislation and on how this must respond to the deep demands for equity and social security that come from the country. Born to give a minimal form of protection to occasional and accessory work, in order to bring out the black work with consequent reduction of tax evasion, the vouchers have transformed, through the regulatory interventions that have followed, into a new form of precariousness. Exiting the small family support activities and entering the different sectors of the world of work, they have lost their initial aims, assuming a different, if not antithetical, role. The extraordinary increase in the use of the voucher system, which led in June last year to the figure of 347.2 million vouchers with a nominal value of 10 euros, is not only the result of a wrong chase to produce rules that have increasingly expanded its scope of use, but it is also the surrender to an ideology of work reduced exclusively to goods and its increasing precariousness. In this sense, the measure now being put our attention is right and necessary, but do not think of using it for the sole purpose of avoiding the vote on the referendum promoted by the CGIL, imagining a subsequent use of measures of the same type. We need clarity, in fact, on this point: it is a question of addressing the issue of casual work in its true characteristics, such as - for example - when families have to rely on one or a babysitter or on school repetitions that are sometimes appropriate, or even on gardening. It is a work performance, therefore, really occasional and not repeated ordinarily over time. It goes without saying, in any case, that occasional and ancillary work services need to be part of a regulatory framework that guarantees their legality and intervention on this level is necessary, but in a way that is certainly different from a system such as that of vouchers that has greatly increased the use of precarious, underpaid, dequalified and without the necessary rights. The evolution of the use of the voucher tool marks in some way one of the aspects of the progressive precariousization of work in Italy. The most important critical aspect was the progressive expansion of the scope of their use, to the point that there were no more sector constraints except for certain limits for agriculture and procurement, type of client, both private and public, and characteristics of the worker. The legislation also allowed it to be used to combine ancillary and pre-existing work relationships, autonomous and professional activities. The only remaining limitations were those on annual remuneration, among other things eluding by the client, keeping the turnover of the ancillary workers high. A measure explicitly designed for the occasional work of students and pensioners, the voucher system has thus entered significantly into the world of work and its dynamics. More generally, extending beyond the fields of agriculture and seasonal employment, this institute has been applied in different sectors of work, causing those who already lived within a system of fixed-term employment contracts in a working life without a dignified economic remuneration and without the possibility of looking calmly at their future. Now I believe that, starting precisely from the effects caused in our labour market, we must open a broader and deeper reflection on the rules of labour regulation in Italy, on the problems they have caused and on the guidelines to be put in place to address them in a context of effective guarantee for workers. There is no doubt that the profound transformation of the production system and services, induced by so many factors, starting from technological innovation, forces us to measure ourselves with a world of work radically different from that of thirty or forty years ago. That world of fixed employment, which would have accompanied the person until retirement, no longer exists and we are aware of it. The new world, however, that of flexibility, cannot only determine the precariousness of work and life. Work, in fact, is not only the instrument of material sustenance of people, but it is also the place of the realization of one's talents and the right social recognition. And this must continue to be so, even in the current changing economic and social conditions. Hence the need to act in the construction of a system of accompaniment of the person in his working life, guaranteeing the economic and welfare coverage in the stages of unemployment with measures more incisive than those present today - and I insist particularly on the point - that allow, in addition to economic support, easier relocation into the productive system and a possibility of vocational training and retraining. In addition, action must be taken on the important aspect of the social security system, which will have to adapt to the new working paths of people's lives. The illusion of aiming at a competitive modernisation of the production system by intervening only on the workers' side, increasing precariousness and reducing rights, is completely wrong and totally unacceptable to us. Acting in this way, the production system is weakened in at least two aspects, which I would like to mention: the internal market and competitiveness on the international scene. For years we have seen that one of the persistent elements of the economic crisis is the weakness of our internal market. The consumption of individuals and households remains at low levels, generating a negative spiral for the whole system. It is clear that, as long as wages remain low and jobs are precarious, the propensity to consume and spend will remain as weak; good wages and a security of one's working condition are key elements in pushing consumption. Safety, above all, allows us to deal with demanding and long-term expenses. Thus, in order to restart a virtuous system, which restarts consumption, increases demand and stimulates production, with the consequent supply of new employment, it is necessary to invest in policies for a stable and secure work, with public and private investments directed to this purpose. Turning to the second aspect, that of our competitiveness in international markets, it is useful to note that our manufacture, at the moment the second in Europe, has a strong vocation to quality production. We know, however, that quality - and I stress this - is also the result of investment in workers, their professionalism and technical and cultural updating. Already today - and increasingly in the future - there is no chance of competing in the global market for the quality of production with dequalified, precarious and unable to increase their professional skills. It is quite clear that a secure employment and a job path that responds to the needs of greater rights and equity are fundamental to the maintenance of our productive and social systems and, last but not least, to keep our democracy in good health. In order to take this path, we need a thorough rethink of the policies adopted over the last few years, and to do this we need to take up the instrument of consultation in the first place. The Government - Mr. Undersecretary, I appeal to you and your history - must take up the role of mediator three of the social partners, in particular with the trade unions. The path of non-comparison with intermediate bodies and conflict with the union must be abandoned and, in this sense, clear must be the cesura with past behavior. Madam President, it is therefore a question of using this new phase, opened with the decree of the Government on vouchers, also to really review the policies at work, starting a path together with the social partners - and I also address the rapporteur - that leads to a full recovery of the centrality of work as the foundation of our economic and social system. Safer, adequately paid work in a context of renewed social justice is the necessary foundation for overcoming a crisis that has long been fading our social, economic and democratic fabric. We need to be able to take this opportunity to undertake a path that can anticipate a new future of progress for our country, for Italy. We must therefore immediately reverse the current state of affairs in this area. It is a question of getting out of the shortsighted logic of maximizing profits and reducing wages, which has marked the horizon on the economic and social front in recent years. We need a thought that doesn't just fit in with polls to set our priorities and doesn't just form on the search for consensus over the various electoral deadlines. We really need a new project for Italy that makes the work engine of progress and factor of dignity for the women and men of our country. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u42	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u43	Madam President, according to an old saying, the child should never be thrown away with dirty water. And if popular wisdom has value, what the government has done with vouchers and what the Senate is about to endorse is a huge mistake. The child we are talking about today is the contrast to black work and with it the regulation of occasional performance; the dirty water are, instead, the abuses that the tool of good work has brought with it; abuses that, to the truth, had already been largely healed with the introduction of traceability: the obligation for companies to communicate by electronic means the beginning of the work performance. As we have already said in the debate on the preliminary questions, this decree-law is constitutionally illegitimate and politically wrong. It is illegitimate because the requirements of extraordinaryness and urgency proper to the decrees are completely lacking; wrong because we need everything less that the unions - and in particular the CGIL - return to veto power over the laws of the State. We have been for years a blocked democracy, slow in decisions and reforms. We were deluded that the innovative path undertaken was only at his dawn: evidently we were wrong. The Government bowed to the CGIL, carrying out by its own decree the same repealing intervention proposed by the referendum. All in all: we note that we have entered the time of the counter-reforms. With a few, but targeted amendments, we asked for simple things: an extension on the purchase and use of vouchers as we know them until the end of the year and then new forms of regulation of accessory work for families and businesses. For families and, therefore, for the remuneration of small household jobs, repetitions, gardening, we had proposed the confirmation of the existing instrument: a good work of 10 euros hours bought in tobacconist with a share of social security contributions of 13 percent and a Inail payment of 7. For the companies instead we had foreseen something different, that is the creation of a new contract of employment "to be called "not to be confused with that "intermittency" "; a real contract of employment that, even if leaner than those canonical and therefore with less bureaucracy charged to the employers, would have sanctioned some rights for the worker, necessary security measures, form with which the availability of vouchers could be required. For this type of contract, which could not have led to an economic relationship of more than 5,000 euros per year between worker and company, the remuneration would have been paid through good work other than those known to date: 13 euros in value, Inail payment confirmed at 7%, but social security contributions brought up to 30 and possibility of purchase only online. The costs for the companies would therefore have increased slightly, but also the net hourly wage and, above all, the share reserved for the pension. Moreover, the most lively protests of the unions were concentrated precisely on the pension; protests in this case just given the data provided by the same Cgil: with the system in force until a few weeks ago, made 500 euros the pension of a part-time worker, that of a person paid through voucher would have been just 200 euros. It seemed therefore necessary to raise the quota to be allocated to the pension precisely in order to heal these imbalances and to think about what will be the pensions of the youngest, boys who wait for a stable job devote themselves to occasional benefits. Unfortunately the government was deaf in the passage of the decree-law to the House and even those that seemed to us proposals of common sense were rejected. If we ask ourselves why, the answer is only one: the fear that an intervention that was not merely repealive could still lead to the celebration of the referendum. The Constitutional Court has been clear on this point that, in the event that the repeal of the acts or individual provisions to which the referendum refers is accompanied by other rules of the same subject matter, without changing either the principles underlying the overall pre-existing discipline or the essential regulatory content of the individual precepts, the referendum takes place on the new legislative provisions. Well, for us this was not the case: we proposed a real contract of employment, rights and protection for lenders, social security contributions equal to those of other employees. It is not by chance that we insist on this point, on the need not to leave a regulatory vacuum, but to give workers and businesses a means of regulating accessory work. As every year in April, especially during the Easter period, the tourist season begins. I think it's a fact also known to the government. With the tourist season begins the period in which operators of the trade, catering and bathing establishments need - perhaps only on the weekend - to increase the staff to their own dependents. However, this need does not make it economically viable to undertake actual recruitments such as those envisaged - for example - by intermittent employment contracts. There was no worse time to change the rules or, indeed, to leave a normative vacuum. To intervene now, on the eve of the tourist season, places in difficulty especially the enterprises that have seasonal peaks and that for this reason were the greatest users of occasional benefits of work. We would still be in time, however, to avoid further damage. We could intervene in this House with amendments aimed at safeguarding these small and medium-sized companies, companies that are at the heart of the Italian economy and risk having to reduce the services offered to customers just at the beginning of the best season, when finally, after the winter months at zero collection, they begin to resume business. This is the appeal that we feel to address to the Government and the majority: listen to the voice of the country, the companies and also the workers. Do not stick to your positions with the sole aim of avoiding the celebration of a referendum. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, as self-employed, we express our opposition to the repeal of vouchers, a tool that allowed us to respond in a simple and intelligent way to the productive needs of sectors characterized by high flexibility, which - it should be remembered - is necessary to ensure a high quality of the product and service offered. It is not conceivable that competitiveness in this country is seen as a dishonor. It is through truly competitive companies, able to compete with complex markets such as those of agro-food or tourism, where international competition is strong, which can not only create job opportunities, but also fosters the whole induced. Today, with this vote, we are simply burdening our businesses with more bureaucracy; we are probably pushing some of them to resort to undeclared work. I understand the political assessment that the government has made. It is true: Italy cannot afford other months of electoral campaign, a climate of continuous and absurd controversy, of frontal opposition. The proponents of the referendum know, however, that they have not won. They simply gave a profoundly wrong message to those who do not have work and, that is, that work can be built through bureaucracy and rules and not, as in all the evolved world, through doing business. The employment rates of other countries with higher employment elasticity, those which grow, should teach us something. On the other hand, Italy, in order to strike those who do not respect the rules, ends up penalising the vast majority that honestly produces employment, obtaining exactly the opposite effect, namely that of reducing employment opportunities. I'm quoting some data, too. The Italian Federation of Public Exercises has emphasized that the phenomenon is quite contained: in 2015 in the field of public stores, bars and restaurants, 19 million vouchers were sold, about 19 million hours of work, bones 11,000 full-time employees. This is 1.1 percent of an area where 730,000 people are employed in Italy. Meanwhile, in the two years 2014-2015, and therefore in the same period of time, employees with employee status in the tourism sector have grown by 4.7 percent. In Trentino, in 2016, the total value of vouchers sold amounted to 6 million euros, with the highest peak of growth in sectors such as gardening, household work, tourism. These EUR 6 million have been poured into the pockets of those who offer occasional benefits in these sectors and who today risk not being placed on the labour market. This is said by Confcommercio della nostra Provincia (Confcommercio of our Province) who, in a meeting held last April 3rd with the Trentino parliamentarians, reiterated how, in front of the numerous reports and requests for assistance from the associated companies, they can only recommend the types of traditional relationship, but very often the company renounces the work performance. The rigidity of other contracts, indirect and administrative costs for small services, do not make the employment relationship economically viable. And again: from a social point of view, it is stressed that the decline in employment and the current situation of young people and the over fifty in particular found in vouchers a useful instrument of income support. On agriculture the effects will certainly be negative, if we think that this instrument was born mainly for the sector. Here the vouchers have been an instrument of income support, which has helped the small companies to stay alive; an aspect that has mainly concerned mountain agriculture, which also plays a valuable role for the garrison of the territory and for the fight against hydrogeological failure, and supported especially young students bringing them closer to the world of agriculture. This too has been greatly underestimated. The repeal of vouchers affects mainly those territories, both on the agricultural front, and of commercial activities that, in various realities, live only for some periods of the year or resort to an integration of the workforce only on occasions totally exceptional and limited to 10-12 days of work per year. In short, today we are writing a wrong page because of a referendum that diminishes the competitive value of our companies. This would become a harmful page if, in the shortest possible time - as my colleague Mr Berger also said - the country did not equip itself with an instrument that, with agility, allowed the encounter between demand and the occasional and occasional work supply. We are being asked by businesses, the world of agriculture and tourism, which are about to enter the full phase of their activities. But we are also asked by many families who, through the vouchers, paid for the school repetitions of their children, the babysitter, house cleaning, care for the sick, the disabled and the elderly; all jobs that, with some exceptions, lived almost exclusively in the submerged and that in recent years were finally emerging. Hence a strong invitation to the Government to act as soon as possible, because I believe that technical solutions and models are not lacking. It is an overall issue of credibility towards companies. It is the need to bring back to the present the debate on the world of work, putting at the centre the issues of development, innovation and competitiveness, giving the labour market first of all an agile instrument, with reduced bureaucracy and low costs: two essential principles if we really want to promote the encounter between the demand and the supply of occasional work. I hope then - as several colleagues have said - that the Government will be able to take account of this request from the business world, and that for the Trentino self-employed it is absolutely right to vote in favour of this measure. We are, of course, willing to make all our contribution and cooperation, as long as it is done very quickly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She is registered to speak Senator Paglini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u46	Madam President, today the government is about to cancel the vouchers, turning a resounding back on an initiative that until a few months ago had been strongly supported within the broader reform of the work carried out by the Renzi-Poletti couple, the two kings Midas on the contrary. Let's be clear: the government decides to cancel "the voucher system " with a sponge stroke and does so simply because it is afraid to face a referendum. It is not a matter of political conviction, equity and social justice. No, he's only doing it for an electoral gain, because he's afraid of losing consent: a sleazy guy to count himself in his pocket by hardened opportunists, circus piroetta professionals. Gentlemen of the majority, however, your choice is an expired time, because by now the Italians have understood that you legislate not for the sake of 60 million citizens, but for your personal gain. I try quickly, especially for those outside this House, to explain what vouchers are. They were born in 2003 and are used for the payment of ancillary work benefits, jobs that can carry out people such as unemployed, housewives, students, pensioners, disabled people, persons in recovery communities, persons at risk of social exclusion, regular non-EU workers and others. The vouchers were initially designed for small household jobs of extraordinary character, including home care for children, the elderly and the sick or school repetitions; in short, small jobs. Over the years, worsening adjustments have been made; for example, the economic limits of use have been raised and their use has been extended to other types of activity, such as when, in 2009, their use has been extended to public administrations for temporary and exceptional needs. But the masterpiece of transformism is achieved in this legislature, first with Decree-Law No. 76 of 2013, which has expanded the scope of application of vouchers, excluding that the performances must be of a merely occasional nature, and then with the genius of the jobs act, which has extended the use of vouchers to all work activities in all productive sectors, raising even the limit of the compensations from 5,000 to 7,000 euros per year, to have as client not only the families, but all, including the entrepreneurs. Let us remember that we are in the age of globalization, where profit is placed above the sense of humanity and dignity. Let's face it: you have gone towards an increasingly flexible system with fewer guarantees. Vouchers serve only to keep the cost of work low. We had warned at the time, in the Commissions and in the Aules, that the further liberalisation of vouchers would involve the replacement of the regular types of contract work. Senators, the question is simple: why should an employer, a public administration, acquire labour force with a contract (so a constraint), when it can achieve the same result by not binding itself to anything and, therefore, assuming no responsibility? The disposable worker is the dream of the greedy, the slavery, the mentally ill, the exploiters, the scoundrels, the destroyers of the sense of humanity. This society is managed by a global policy that aims to reduce the quality of life and to reduce dignity, which aims at competition for the last blood and the mutual slaughter, in the name of profit. This government's policy is aimed at precariousness, which is the humus of occupational blackmail and mafia blackmail. I repeat the concept of mob blackmail. We of the 5 Star Movement are aware of this democratic drift that we are living and fight every day to avoid it. Let's go back to the vouchers and tell them what happened. In 2008 the vouchers initially sold were 500,000, while in 2012 we reach 23.800,000. In 2013 we are at 40,700,000 and in 2014, with the jobs act of Renzi and Poletti (the two kings Midas on the contrary), we reach 70 million, with the sectors of industry, construction, crafts, logistics, and then to follow trade, tourism, services and agriculture. In 2015, with implementing decree No 81, vouchers splashed at 115 million, up to the record figure of 145 million in 2016. Anything else you want to say? You of the majority have given up vouchers as a tool to bring out black work, except that you have never provided statistical data that would lead to such confirmation. Yet, in the last three years for you there was no emergency voucher, despite our repeated requests and questions to Minister Poletti, who said that everything was fine, that everything was ok and that the exponential numbers on the sale of vouchers were not a problem. On the other hand, vouchers also had another fundamental political function: to inflate employment statistics. In fact, just working an hour in a week that ISTAT counts you as busy. Here are the striking results of the increase in job act statistics. Do you understand - I address the citizens who are outside - what is the game? The figures on employment have so risen, between precarious, "voucherists" and - as Minister Poletti would say - rampant "football players." We of the 5 Star Movement have always fought against this social chineseization that you are imposing, through the enlargement of the jerseys of the voucher tool and all your choices in the world of work. We told you that those who get paid with vouchers have no recognized rights and that this would be the method of exploitation of the workforce, but you strongly wanted them, pushed them, encouraged them. Now you want to abolish them, electrocuted on the road to Damascus. Let me tell you: you're embarrassing! The 5 Star Movement has always opposed concrete acts in the Commissions. We have a consistent position, without turning around on the issue of vouchers, respecting the dignity of work. The sudden backwardness of the Government is even more serious because in the current measure the PD is limited to proposing repealing measures without indicating alternative solutions, nor introducing forms of management of the transitional period. Quickly delete tout court vouchers without filling a normative vacuum that avoids chaos. In the series: put a piece that is worse than the hole. The PD is simply afraid to face the referendum and does not want to compromise even more relations with the trade unions, and in particular with the CGIL, which called for the referendum initiative. In this regard, we are talking about the schizophrenia of the proposers, who have incredibly used the good work in a massive way. In fact, the study of the INPS shows that the main users of vouchers are precisely cooperatives and unions: we are in a world of schizophrenics! The PD has already been burned with the referendum of 4 December last year and is now afraid to lose this too. Gentlemen of the majority, we are sure that this country deserves better. This is just a clumsy attempt to solve a political problem that is entirely internal to the PD and the Government, aware that they have carried out unpopular reforms that do not even have the consent of their electorate. The decision to abolish - for your sake - the voucher instrument is harmful, because we consider it unacceptable to prevent the Italian people from speaking through the referendum. The Constitution allows us to do so, as it is still in force and - thanks to us - feasible. The people are sovereign and must decide. Today we leave you, therefore, to cook in your muddy waters. On the other hand, what we had to expect from this Government and from improvised rulers who constantly feed the crushing of values and rights: work, school, health, everything. Today we see only a ruthless struggle of economic interests, with politicians lent to the games of power. And we note that politics has forgotten what its main role should be, namely to serve people, the citizens. Can't you? Perhaps, then, it is time for you to change your profession. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u47	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u50	ZIN (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the anniversary of the death of the Italian-Argentine citizen Mandaradoni, I would like to share with you the memory of Francis. Born in 1934 in Vena Inferiore in the Calabrian Vibonese, Francesco Mandaradoni together with his family, and following the painful world conflict that involved his country, he emigrated to Argentina in 1951 in search of a better future. The Mandaradoni family settled in Buenos Aires, a city in which Francis grew up and where he later met his wife, from whom he had two Italo-Argentine daughters. His tireless spirit as a great worker allowed him to assert himself professionally and to contribute to the economic development of Argentina as many Italians who, out of necessity, have emigrated to other countries following the Second World War. Although far from home, during his life Francis has maintained strong ties with his Calabrian origins, attending and participating in the activities of the associations present in Argentina. This story of sacrifices, hard work and important satisfactions was cut off on March 17, 1992, the day when the first terrorist attack in Argentina's history took place against the Israeli embassy in Buenos Aires, where Francis occasionally worked. Only three days later, his body was found under the embassy's rubble. Even today, twenty-five years after his disappearance, the guilty have not been tried or even condemned. As Senator of the Republic and representative of Italians living abroad, I would ask my colleagues in the Argentine Parliament to discuss a proposal for a law introducing the judgment in the Argentinean legal system in the absence. It could certainly represent a form of tribute and homage to the memory of Francesco Mandaradoni. Today I would like to thank the Italian community present in Argentina, the Federation of Calabrian Associations (FAC) and, in particular, the Argentine judge Franco Fiumara, the Secretary of State of the Argentine Government Mario Cimadavilla and his collaborators, for the tireless work they carry out in the name of freedom and for the execution of justice for the tragic death of Francesco Mandaradoni. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u53	BOTTICS (M5S). Madam President, I am always calling on the Commission to ensure that it completes the examination of the measure on the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into the events of the Forteto community. In fact, I have finished the words; at this point I am begging the members of the Commission for justice, since Easter has just passed, to examine themselves with conscience and to bring the text to the Chamber immediately, by next week. There are very few amendments, the deadline of which expired on 6 April, and they have not yet been published because they are waiting for the Commission to be convened. Let us conclude, then, this measure, let us bring it to this House and set up the Commission of Inquiry. The victims are waiting for it, also because reflections continue to emerge and we must show that we take care of our citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u54	If you consider it, your Parent Group will be able to put the matter at the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-808.ana.u55	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.56 p.m.
