ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 9 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2067, 1844 and 2032, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, 176, 209, 286, 299, 381, 382, 384, 385, 386, 387, 389, 468, 581, 597, 609, 614, 700, 708, 709, 1008, 1113, 1456, 1587, 1681, 1682, 1683, 1684, 1693, 1713, 1824, 1905, 1921, 1922, 2103, 2295 and 2457. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 9 March the rapporteur, Senator Cucca, replied and the Presidency referred, pursuant to Rule 100 (11) of the Rules of Procedure, amendment 38.0.500, tabled by the Government, to the Justice Commission. Since I do not see President D'Ascola present here, who should have reported on the Commission's work, I suspend the sitting until 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 16.36 p.m. and resumed at 5 p.m.) I call Mr D'Ascola to report on the work of the Justice Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u5	Mr President, on a preliminary note, I would like to inform the House that the Commission has approved Article 38a as a result of the government amendment it proposed. I have to say that none of the sub-amendments have been approved and that the text that we are bringing to the House is therefore fully consistent with the text proposed by the Government. However, I must also inform the House that the 2nd Commission did not intend to accept a conditional opinion expressed, in accordance with Article 81 of our Constitution, by the 5th Commission. What is the problem, Mr President, Mr Senators, ladies and gentlemen? The 5th Commission considered to express a conditioning opinion because it should have introduced a sub-amendment which required the Government that the decrees referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 38-a - when I speak of the decree referred to in paragraph 2, I refer to an interministerial decree, therefore of an administrative act, and when I speak of the decree referred to in paragraph 3, I refer to the legislative decree precisely foresaw by that paragraph - should be accompanied by a technical report sent to the competent Commissions on the side of financial profiles to express their opinion. This was the initial opinion given by the 5th Commission. The 2nd Commission has made an objection to this binding opinion, justifying the reasons for the delay, for which I apologise, with which the 2nd Commission came to this House. The 2nd Commission considered that two aspects were put to the attention of the 5th Commission. Meanwhile, with regard to the decree referred to in paragraph 3, then the legislative decree, it has considered that the obligation to send the decree accompanied by technical report to the Commissions competent for financial profiles was already provided for by article 34, to which article 38-a made express reference to its paragraph 3. Therefore, the question was initially only about this aspect; then the 5th Commission acknowledged that there was indeed this reference and therefore that the duplication of an obligation to submit the legislative decree accompanied by a technical report was superfluous, as this obligation was already foreseen. At this point the problem has shifted with reference to the conditioning opinion on the point of reference to the second paragraph of Article 38-a, that is to say to the interministerial decree and therefore to the administrative act. The whole of the 2nd Commission raised the problem of boiling the text and therefore, in a certain sense, considered the opinion superfluous, as the text of Article 38a already boiled the state. Then there was the question of the need for a parliamentary committee's opinion on an administrative act, although it was aware that there are administrative acts which are in practice subject to the opinion of the relevant committees on financial profiles. It has therefore debated complex and certainly not easy issues. As President of the Commission, I felt that I should also inform, at the request of a member of the Commission, namely Senator Mineo, of the problems involved in the failure to transpose the opinion of the 5th Commission. Of course, even if it is completely abstract, given the rhetorical nature of the question (because Senator Mineo obviously knew perfectly well what the risks are from the constitutional point of view), however, because of the need for the completeness of the debate and of the information actually collective, I have referred both to the risks of inconstitutionality, and to what the President of the Republic can refer to the Chambers the text. This is purely abstract and in order to contribute, as I have to do, to the debate and proposals that can be put to the attention of the Commission on the basis of the requests arising from the interventions of the senators. On the other hand, of course, the problem of boiling - I have already mentioned this - has been raised, therefore, of a text already complete with every requirement on this very side; on the other hand, as regards the opinions of the parliamentary committees on administrative acts, the practice will certainly record - as has also been pointed out - but to some senators it seemed absolutely unnecessary, because the administrative act is free from the opinions of the parliamentary committees. If the rapporteur were to accept the opinion of the 5th Commission, he felt that he should not do so. I say this for the objectivity of the report. Mr President, for this reason we voted on the text of the amendment, namely Article 38-a, and then I was given a mandate to report to the House, as I believe I have done, for what was most important in the course of the work in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u6	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u7	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the Liceo "Giordano Bianchi Dottula" of Bari, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u10	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, at last sitting, the Government, dealing with the subject that is before this House today, tabled an amendment, which you, at the time when you put it back for examination in the Justice Committee, considered implicitly admissible. In the Committee on Justice, the deadline for sub-amendments has been set. We know what happened following the examination of the sub-amendments and everything that happened this morning, as the President of the Commission, Mr D'Ascola, said, with regard precisely to the opinion of the 5th Commission on the amendment. Mr President, as you, more than I myself, are a jurist, who has been dealing with the legal rules for years and therefore has considerable experience, he could have, and should have, grasped the profiles of impproposability of this amendment. I am speaking, Mr President, so that you can still reflect. The Government has included in a law order, which has nothing to do with the costs of justice, a regulation, or changes to be made to laws that regulate, precisely, the expenditure of the justice service. It is clear to everyone, Mr President, that this has nothing to do with the substance of the measure we are examining. This amendment raises in me the question of whether there are, on one hand or on the other, pressures relating to the costs of justice and expenditure, a matter which, at the moment, with the measure we are examining, has absolutely nothing to do with it. I would like to appeal, Mr President, to your experience, to your well-known preparation, so that you can make further reflection and declare this amendment unacceptable. It is also because its opinion has also absorbed the possible opinion of the President of the D'Ascola Commission. Indeed, since you refer him back to the Commission, his opinion of propriety is absorbent and frustrating any reflection. But what is more serious (and here you let me pass my censure on the authority that is often expressed in this House by the Bureau) is that we were not allowed to discuss the matter. The Government has arrived, the amendment has been tabled, you have put the amendment back in the Commission and I, like all my colleagues, have not been given the opportunity to make a contribution on the issue of whether or not the amendment can be proposed. Allow me, Mr President, with great humility, to say that this is arrogance. To deprive oneself of the contribution that can come even from the most modest of these senators is an attitude that is not appropriate for an authoritative presidency such as yours. You should have allowed such a contribution, and today I ask you to ensure that I, more specifically and in more detail, together with other colleagues, can intervene to highlight those profiles of impponibility of this amendment, in order to avoid dismissing a measure which has in itself a completely unrelated provision to the subject it deals with. I thank you and your colleagues for their attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u11	Thank you, counselor. The Presidency takes note of what it has said. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I didn't call you a judge. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since you have repeatedly highlighted my legal competence over the years, I recall your competence as a lawyer. Excuse me, it was an unwanted slip, but perhaps induced by your clarification. Having said that, I take note of what you have proposed. I would point out to you that there has already been a broad debate when the amendment was tabled. You speak of the Presidency's arrogance, but I can say that continuing to repeat the same issue several times, after the Presidency has already spoken, it could also be the subject of a similar assessment. However, I do not want to argue on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u13	You have the right, Counselor Buccarella, you too, lawyer, for equality, senator and lawyer. I don't think it's anything offensive.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u14	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, it is not at all offensive, on the contrary. However, as a senator, I would like to remind you of a circumstance that might perhaps be disturbing; but I do not want to say that. During the last time the draft law No 2067 was examined in the Assembly, a number of statements of withdrawal of amendments by other senators, albeit not lawyers, were recorded. I took note of this fact that it was not made explicit in this House (but the fact that it was withdrawn was nevertheless verified in the course of Parliament's work), that I should make an amendment to it. There should be a written record of this, dated 22 September 2016, when I asked myself, in the Senate Presidency, to resign a written statement in which I made an amendment to Senator Lumia's first signature, namely amendment 7.108, which was withdrawn. So I thought I'd leave a trace of it both in an intervention on the order of business, as I am doing now, and with a written document, which I have a copy of here on my phone. Now I see, from the comparative examination of Annex IV and Annex V, that this amendment still appears to be present and even at the first signature of Senator Lumia. I am talking about amendment 7.108, which concerns the regulation of the limitation of offences of manslaughter for violation of the legislation on safety at work. I would like to have a clarification, in order to understand what happened to this amendment, that I had been withdrawn, so much so that I had to take care (in a particularly careful way, in my opinion) to make it my own, fearing that it would be lost. On the one hand, I am pleased that the amendment that has been lost is not, but I do not understand why Senator Lumia has yet to sign it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u15	I have to assume there's been a disguido that you've made up for, Senator Buccarella. We take note of what you have just said, in the sense that the amendment has been withdrawn and made yours. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I would like to raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment, which I am going to present, entirely replacing the text of the draft law No 2067-1844-2032-176-209-286-299-381-382-384-385-386-387-389-468-581-597-609-614-700-708-799-10081113-1456-1587-1681-1682-1683-1684-1693-1713-1824-1905-1921-1922-2103-2295-2457, which transposes the text approved by the Commission and certain amendments by the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u17	The Presidency takes note of the question of confidence in the approval of the entirely replacement amendment submitted by the Government and, in accordance with practice, forwards the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission, because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly of the financial coverage profiles. I therefore call on the Conference of Group Presidents to organise the debate. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 5.16 p.m. and resumed at 5.56 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u18	The Conference of Leaders organised the discussions on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the text of the draft law amending the penal code, the code of criminal procedure, the penitentiary order, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The debate on trust, which will begin immediately, will take place until its conclusion this evening. Two hours and twenty-five minutes were allocated, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The final explanations of vote and the call will take place in the afternoon sitting tomorrow. During tomorrow's afternoon sitting, the debate on the motion of individual distrust of the Minister for Sport will take place. After the explanation of the motion, the debate will take place, for which two hours and twenty minutes have been allocated, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups; explanations of vote will follow and call it. Thursday morning will be discussed document III, n. 2, on the contested election in the Liguria Region and, in order to respect the scans of the calendar for the sessions of this week, no closing hours are foreseen. The Senate will meet again next week, Tuesday 21 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the examination of the decree-law on immigration, after meeting of the Conference of Leaders at 3 p.m. The deadline for tabling amendments to the Decree-Law is extended until 1 p.m. on Monday 20 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u19	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u20	Mr President, I am not likely to take advantage of all the time I have been given, except to say that when the measures relating to justice and therefore in some way the area of rights and freedoms most dear to citizens are approved through the imposition of a vote of confidence, it means that something is not working. This measure, among other things, is a Zibaldone, in which there are appropriate things that tend to correct some twists, as in the case of the interceptions and some abuses that have been made of the same interceptions, that in many cases are not evidence of evidence acquired with other investigations or other circumstances that have emerged, but constitute in themselves the element on which, from a word, from a sentence, from the inclination and the accentation of a sentence, even removed from a wider discourse, the whole accusatory castle is founded. If this were to be done, by delimiting certain powers and by delimiting the use and abuse of interceptions, on the other hand we are faced with a blow to the prescriptions, obviously assuming of the general vulgate that constant hypocrisy that has characterized the action of Parliament and the political forces in the last fifteen years, that is to say, to appear in the eyes of the public opinion the most intransigence, as if from the intransigence or excess provided for by these laws it could derive a sure improvement of the impossibility to delinquere, especially if this is referred to criminal organizations. We have invented and supported, since the time of the special legislation on terrorism, the law on repentance. This law is conceived today in such a way that there is a clear reversal of the burden of proof: the concomitant statements, even if after years of repentance, of certain subjects, certainly criminals, are sufficient to put a citizen more or less known in the condition of having to prove himself the falseness of those statements, which, often de relato, without any precise temporal reference, without any circumstance and without any evidence, end up being the castle of a theorem. Theorem against which a trial is celebrated in newspapers and on television and political careers are destroyed, lives, families and goodness of people, except then, in more distant times and therefore anachronistically, when the thing no longer interests anyone but the damaged, discover that that castle of illations, delations and conjecture has led to nothing but the acquiescence of the accused, crushed and crushed in this infernal machine with the arranged combination of the prosecutors, who have now acquired the bad habit of making press conferences, accrediting the press as true, documented and certain, theorems that then, at the outcome of the three degrees of judgment, prove absolutely not true and certainly not tried. This spectacularization of justice, which does not honour the magistrates, nor the citizens subjected to media domination, was created by a series of laws. We first talked about the case of the external competition, to which the crime of trafficking of illicit influences has been added for a few months. Well, if the system of preferences is introduced, many politicians will do well, the day after the elections, to present themselves to the general prosecutor responsible for the territory and to surrender themselves to the judicial authority, because there will always be someone who will say that Titus or Caius gave the vote in exchange for something. What other pearl, what other grain of the rosary do we put on the field today? Let us say that many trials, perhaps those involving persons with high - sounding names, are extinguished because the machine of justice fails to complete the three - degree judgment in the six or seven years available. For the truth, there are examples of the opposite sign: for Berlusconi, Verdini and many known personalities of politics and the social world, the trials took place in a year and a half or two years, for Craxi even less. So, when you want, the trials and the verification of the truth are done quickly. Although 60 percent of the prescriptions intervene before we can celebrate the first degree of judgment as proof of the ignorance, approximation, unfairness and abuse that many prosecutors make of the news of crime, we are here to say that we must extend the terms of the prescription, because we are for the contrast to the underworld and because so there will be no striking cases of peremption and, therefore, of prescription. We have thus arrived at a combined arrangement according to which for some crimes against the public administration the prescription intervenes after more than twenty years: we should shake our veins to the wrists or should shake to those who will vote on this measure. I am not a jurist, so I cannot afford to, but I would like to ask: is this set of rules, which are often apodictically aggressive towards administrators, moralizing public life or deserting it? Who of us would allow his own son, who has a profession and good repute, understood as the whole of the civic and moral attributes recognized by a community, to be the mayor or administrator in his own municipality? [[Senator Giro's applause.]] Who would expose their children to the clutches of an investigative judiciary, which being inconferent and irresponsible, does not pay and respond to any of the many abuses that he has committed in this nation? Already 50,000 people have been compensated and as many are waiting to be compensated and in this country more than 20,000 people are serving the preventive prison for the possibility of crime, even dating back fifteen or twenty years before (there is therefore no "preventive" well-loved nothing) and probably half of these 20,000 people waiting for judgment will be acquitted: we are therefore a country that holds 10,000 innocent people in its prisons. In this House, what should prevail? The feeling of wanting to appear to be intimidating opponents of organized crime or the feeling of wanting to defend the inalienable and unavailable rights or freedoms of citizens? What is our priority task? We fill the mouth of the word "freedom" and "democracy" as if these institutions could ignore the inviolability of the prerogatives and negative rights of which Isaiah Berlin spoke, which are unavailable to any authority. In this House we do not do this: tomorrow someone will have his beautiful "chain" in the newspapers, he will make the Torquemada and will present himself to the public as an intransigent fighter of the mafias, of the shadows of the 'ndrines and 'ndrangheta, because he will say that he has brought to twenty-three years the limitation period. However, this concerns honest citizens who may incur sanctions as administrators and therefore people who spend their talents building up the common good, not those who have clean hands and keep them in their pockets. You are hitting those citizens who, in the exercise of their duties as administrators, take charge of participating and contributing to the government of a municipality, region or nation itself and risk incurring a sanction, which will have to be grabbed in the next twenty, twenty-one or twenty-two years. Do you think this is a symptom of civilization? Do you think that this falls within the task that should be a priority for this House, that of defending citizens from power? We live in a time when it is difficult not to find a liberal. All are liberal except Bersani and his patrol that still tend to real socialism, in a vision of anachronistic society, mostly impossible to realize and however not desirable. The rest of the Members of this House are all said to be liberal. There are liberal clams, there are watered clams, there are liberals of all shapes and nature. You must know that liberalism was born as a doctrine to oppose the overkill of power. When citizens' inalienable rights are not defended, power takes on the aspect of tyranny. Lord Acton said that a power corrupts, but an absolute power corrupts absolutely and we are giving in the hands of the rulers a further element not to produce what they should produce in a nation that demands justice, does not humor and gallows at every corner of the road. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group and Senator Giro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u21	Senator Cardiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the Forza Italia Group will vote against this measure. Let us say no for two reasons: firstly, because, politically, we believe that this majority, which no longer has the numbers to move forward, was forced to put its trust in this measure when Renzi himself stated in the past that it would never put its trust in a measure in criminal matters. Secondly, because Mr Orlando - and I am addressing my colleagues in the ALA and NCD groups - imposed this measure, when it could have been improved in the Commission and in the House, it would have been our vote in favour if our demands had been met. This is a messy measure which, in addition to bringing harm to justice, will cause further harm to citizens. In the past, when the reform of judicial districts has been carried out, this Government has imposed the closure of courts and sections of courts and those who are paying the most troubles caused to justice by this Minister and this Government are mainly the citizens, who have been forced to move, sometimes even hundreds of kilometers, to see themselves denied or denied justice. With the provision in our examination, the Government brings together so many abnormal situations, so many reinterpretations of the penal code and the criminal procedure code, it increases the penalties for certain crimes to make electoral commercials and, in the end, it only creates confusion for those who operate in the world of justice. My solidarity goes to the Union criminal chambers of Italian criminal lawyers, who proclaimed a strike with abstention from the hearings from 20 to 24 March: there will be a national demonstration here in Rome against this measure. We politicians do not say that, but the criminal lawyers say above all that this reform is not good, so much so that, as it is articulated, it has dismembered the penal code and the code of criminal procedure. It is true that it tightens the penalties for the crime of theft and aggravated theft, robbery and for the cases provided for in Article 416-b, but you do so only for electoral commercials, forgetting so many other crimes that affect the community. We had foreseen, with drafts of law signed by the undersigned, that the offended party could have resorted to cassation against the filing request, but the suggestion was not accepted; we had foreseen an intervention of the offended party in criminal proceedings such as to affect more, but also this provision was not accepted. (18.15) (Follows CARDIELLO). And what did you do? You have reviled a measure that will no longer bring justice, not only in the classrooms of criminal hearings but also and above all in the area of prison police. The same criminal lawyers have defined the schizophrenic measure; they say so in a press release. The limitation period is extended by violating the right to innocence. Mr D'Anna spoke about the extension of the prescription by about twenty years. There are crimes that will come to 22 years and others at 20 years of age. Justice doesn't win by extending the time limit. This is fought mainly in courtrooms. There are many serious and honest magistrates, but there are many who, knowing that there is a longer prescription, will delay the trials instead of to six months, to one, two or three years and will be denied in the classroom the true justice to those who are offended in criminal proceedings, to those who wait for a trial about five or six years to see recognized a right as an offense, for having suffered a theft in the apartment or for having lost a family member for a manslaughter. The government, instead of worrying about aligning the times of Italian justice with those of Europe, extends the prescription, trying to make the Italian people believe that they will no longer be prescribed the trials because we have extended the prescription. It is not true: they will prescribe the same because the magistrates - I repeat - instead of reducing the time of the trials will lengthen them. And what does this penitentiary police provision provide for, in respect of those who are subject to the conditional suspension of the sentence for the crimes included in the twenty-four months, when they can have it? It tightens the penalties, not foreseeing the reintegration of the condemned or the prisoner into civil society; it lengthens the time of condemnation and does not see that today in the Italian prisons there is an overcrowding, with a very high index of suicides among the prisoners because, before seeing defined a trial in the time provided for by European law, they wait about seven to ten years, and then be acquitted. You intend to do justice with repression and do not foresee the reintegration of the condemned into society, while we at Forza Italia intend to give guarantees above all and seek legal certainty. If a person is to be condemned, it must be condemned in the right time, it is unthinkable that he can be condemned in very long times and that, as sometimes happens and as has happened in these days, there are prisoners who are released after fifteen years in prison because they are recognized as innocent. We are for legal certainty: if a person delinques or commits a crime, he must be sentenced to the penalty and pay it without benefit. On the other hand, there is no legal certainty, the penalties are increased and the limitation period is extended without guaranteeing Italian citizens legal certainty as regards the times, not only in criminal matters, but also in civil matters. In the Justice Commission, we have repeatedly called for the timing of justice to be kept up to date with regard to the closure of the courts. We have not yet been given the data of what is happening in the courts following the deletion of the same and their sections. This is a political measure and, therefore, I appeal above all to the conscience and common sense of my colleagues in the NCD and ALA so that we do not approve it. We would have liked a much more flexible measure, which had taken into account the needs of Italian justice, so much so that colleagues lawyers from the criminal chambers will take demonstrations throughout Italy, to finish here in Rome with a national demonstration. Mr President, this is a matter for the citizens. It is unthinkable that in a rule of law the time limit will be increased to say that we will not have the process prescribed! [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] That's not true! Just think that, especially in the courts of the South, justice is denied daily because there are no classrooms, there are no chancellors and there are no magistrates. Together with other Members of the Justice Commission, we fought not only to ensure that those who were awaiting trial could obtain justice, but that the chancellors and magistrates could do their job. For these reasons, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European Forza Italia will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u24	Mr President, it is undeniable that from the first moment this issue was dealt with in the Justice Commission, I and my group's colleagues have worked with the majority to lay off a measure that would be useful to the justice service of our country and to the citizens. We have made some proposals. You will remember - then I will focus more specifically on the subject of the prescription - my idea of making sure that the prescription not already extended in order to avoid the extinction of the crime, but that for some trials, in particular those for crimes of particular hatefulness, as in recent years those against the public administration, there was a preferential lane, moreover already provided for by our code of criminal procedure. I then intervened to amend Article 132-a of the implementing provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure. You couldn't say no. The majority and the government could not express an opinion contrary to those who asked for a judgment against those who committed crimes against the public administration. Therefore, the amendment has been approved and is included in the text which has been dismissed by the Senate Justice Commission. But that amending forecast should have made the government and the majority reflect on the inopportunity to extend further the prescribed term specifically for crimes against public administration. Otherwise, there is no point in that amendment and amendment of Article 132-a, nor in the amendment which has been dismissed by the Commission. I believe that even those who do not practice the profession of lawyer or magistrate and are not engaged as legal practitioners should be aware of the logic of what is happening and will take place as a result of what we are approving and I refer in particular to Article 18 of the text dismissed. Article 18 provides that, where a prosecutor does not initiate prosecution, or in any case, after the investigation has been completed, he shall not terminate his activity with a request for referral to court or for a dismissal, he shall inform the Attorney General accordingly. The Attorney General, again according to the rule we have dismissed, assigns a period of three months to the prosecutor to complete his investigation activity; if the latter does not, the first avocates to himself the investigation procedure. Very good. I am very pleased that this is something that I very much appreciate, given that certain prosecutors, when they have to do the filing measures at the end of the preliminary investigations, keep the file on their desk for years so that the citizen, against whom there is a provision not to have to proceed because the investigation has not led to any evidence to initiate only the prosecution, must wait two years and for two years must be investigated. I am pleased that this provision tells the prosecutor that within three months he has to give up his findings, otherwise the Prosecutor-General invokes the proceedings to himself. But gentlemen - and I am referring to technicians, lawyers, judges in the Justice Commission, consultants in the Ministry of Justice and Government and all those who have a minimum of familiarity with the rules - you have failed to take into account that Article 412 of the Code of Criminal Procedure currently in force already provides that the Prosecutor General may invoke investigations to himself when the prosecutor does not carry out the prosecution or requires the filing within the time limit laid down in Article 127 of the implementing provisions, which would then be the famous six months, plus six months, plus six months, plus six months. And there are also forecasts for particular crimes, where these terms are extended: I am referring to the crime of terrorism, 416- bis and crimes of violence. Well, something has been done that has already been done. And then I would like to laugh Senator Caliendo, when, for example, the Attorney General of the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Naples, Milan or Palermo will invoke all these procedures to complete the investigation activity. And who's doing this investigation? Are the D.A.s doing it? I don't want the general prosecutors, but in our environment we call it the cemetery. And what do we do? Let's wake up these deaths and say they have to complete the investigation that the prosecutor hasn't completed in the end. assigned to him. And what will happen, for there are no general prosecutor substitutes? It will be that the Attorney General will apply the proxy substitutes of the Republic to the Public Prosecutor General to do the work they were required to do in the Public Prosecutor's Office. So we did a tarantella, a turnaround, to get where? At the same conclusion. I would like to laugh at measures which do not have any substantial effect. The prosecutor must complete the investigation within the time limit set for him; if he does not complete it, the procedure will be terminated: this is the rule that would possibly have been voted by us. On the other hand, the citizen must submit to the inability to provide in a reasonable time - attention, without prejudice to the hypothesis of particular complexity of investigation, for which the rule already provides longer times and deadlines, so it is clear that I am referring to common crimes - inefficiency, laziness, and remain investigated for years because they do not take care to carry out their work in the given term. But it can't be done! It cannot be done because all the terms entrusted to the parties and therefore to the lawyers are peremptori: I, if I do not present the appeal within that period, lapse. All the terms to which the judge is subject - who knows why - are always authorising officers. If we wanted something really revolutionary, then we had to do something that I had imagined. Let me now turn to the other subject, because there is little time and I will only deal with two points to announce no to this measure by the Group to which I belong, even if we put our trust and do so not because we are on the other side of this House, not because we are in opposition, because we are the ones who, even though we are in opposition, voted in favour of what convinced them. We say no to this measure, on which trust is placed because not only does it not convince us, but we even abhor it. Turning to the other subject, colleagues talk about prescription, long prescription, but let us look at it with a few examples. We note that article 318 of the penal code (corruption for the exercise of the function), currently, after the norm of 2015, provides a prescription of six years and we reach nine years due to the interruption envisaged with this bill of a year and a half after the sentence of conviction of first degree and another year and a half for the second degree. Let us say that we are still within the framework of your (not mine) conception of the reasonable duration of the process. But let us take the example of Article 319-c of the penal code and reach fifteen years and nine months, as a result of the suspension at twenty years and twenty-five years for corruption in judicial acts: if we add the three years we arrive twenty-eight years. Gentlemen, when you condemn a man after 20 years, you are condemning another person, not the man who committed that fact. I challenge anyone to say if you, Mr Gasparri, are the same as thirty-five years ago: I do not think so, your thinking is different, your conduct is different. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've improved. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Exactly, Mr. President. A young man of twenty who commits a crime, you condemn him at the age of fifty, when he is another man. That's what I'm talking about. I can be in the majority, in the minority, to the opposition, I care nothing, I have closed: I to these dispositions, by culture, I will always say no; even if the Father had proposed it to me I would have said no, because I can not condemn and see condemned a citizen after thirty years and all this because the State cannot guarantee in our country an adequate service of justice. I shall end by saying, as I often say in this House, that when a state neglects or compromises the three pillars of democracy, namely health, school and justice, this is seriously questioned. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u25	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Economic and Social High School Clemente Rebora in Rho, in the province of Milan, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u26	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u27	Mr President, we are really touched by the passionate speeches of the senators that we have heard so far; speeches which certainly move in the interests of the defence of rights and of a guarantee that, however, too often in these parliamentary classrooms and outside the country, was a term that has been tainted. In itself, the term guaranteeing is most respectable, since the rights of citizens, suspects, accused persons, the rights of those who are convicted and must serve a sentence, the rights of a citizen or a company that operates a civil action and has every interest in hearing a sentence are very respectable. However, there is a problem, in our view, that behind the evoke of this noble name of guarantee, we all too often see a spirit that is not objectively and sincerely guaranteed. When Senator D'Anna speaks of those who happen in the clutches of the magistrates, I believe that this is a highly offensive expression, but not already for the magistrates, of whom I do not have to stand as a defender of the office (they would not need it, even if they were not represented here as a category). The point is not to defend the judiciary or the magistrates, the point is whether it is admissible, in a parliamentary assembly, within the maximum institution of representative democracy, that such phrases are addressed to the entire power of the State (which we hope and trust can remain in its independence and third-partyness), with expressions that do not allow to reveal a sincere affliction driven by sincerely guaranteed principles, but seem to us to come from ancient echoes. Echoes that these parliamentary classrooms knew when, in the political debate of twenty or twenty-five years ago, the famous clash between politics and the judiciary took on the tones and also the regulatory forms of a copious legislative production aimed at the protection of particular interests, such as the ad personam regulations of the Berlusconian era. We must reject this kind of aggressive expression towards an activity of a civil state that is to prosecute crimes. This does not mean, of course, that all magistrates are good, correct and incorruptible people. In fact, that's not what I'm saying at all. No one can say that. But we must get out of this mental cage in which you want to force us too, still new political force, which of the legality and a principle of true legality believes that it can take on, perhaps not alone. These expressions must be rejected, and they put us back into a political and communicative debate which must be rejected. To Senator Cardiello I would like to say that we, as is well known, criticize this bill, because in the matter of prescription it does not accept our expectations, today, to order and resources available, those that are missing and about which Senator Cardiello himself spoke. There are no magistrates, there are no chancellors, there are no ushers, there are no notifiers, there are no resources, there are no computers, there are no working software, there is no telematic civil process that - I say it to the non-experts - very often in many courts runs out and produces more problems for legal practitioners, lawyers and magistrates than solutions, unfortunately. We agree on that. And we don't want long processes. We are the last ones to hope that a trial, criminal (or civil, but we remain in the criminal case), lasts twenty years because those who are thirsty for legality and for the certainty of the law and the penalty are us, perhaps more than many than of the guaranteeing they fill their mouths. Who wants to protect a principle of legality in order to ensure that for the offended parties, private or public (when it is the public interest that is damaged by crimes against public administration), the trials can be carried out and concluded with sentences of condemnation or absolute as soon as possible we are the first. And it is not defending, behind a furry guarantee, the system of the current prescription that really does justice to these issues. We argue that, at least with a judgment of first instance, after a trial investigation, after the right of defence has had the opportunity to explain itself before a judge in full contradiction, the prescription must be suspended, as happens in many other countries, which we consider even more civil than ours and we expected this to be shared. Who wants to claim his innocence or a lower liability than the one proclaimed in the judgment - it is right - has the right to cultivate a judgment of appeal and also a judgment of legitimacy before the Court of Cassation. But this must not continue to be, as in fact it is today, perhaps unconfessibly - and I say it as a lawyer, from those who care about the rights - an easy escapism, and not so much for the defensive activities of lawyers, but precisely knowing and exploiting the inefficiencies of the system, which sometimes can also be the faults of this or that magistrate (we must not defend them regardless). The inefficiencies of the system and the length of the procedure mean that the defendant guilty should be allowed to cultivate judgments of appeal not already to protect or claim his/her own extraneousness to the crime, but to rely on the objective, relatively easy, of the prescription, that is the cancellation of the entire process and, therefore, also with the dismantling of many activities, time and human resources and techniques employed. So, the first ones who want a quick trial are us. And we are also certain that a reform of the statute of limitations must take place not with an indefinite extension, but with a proposal that we say must certainly be accompanied by accelerated instruments, in order to ensure that the processes are completed. Senator Falanga recalled Article 318 of the Criminal Code, which provides for a maximum sentence of six years, after the last legislative intervention of the Parliament with Law No 69 of 2015. Perhaps anticipating something that has not yet been discussed I would like to say here: thank God that that penalty has become six years old! And it became so thanks to an amendment of the 5 Star Movement in the Justice Commission, during the process of the so-called anti-corruption law of 2015, law that we also did not vote, because so many things did not go. That maximum sentence, gentlemen, allowed the use of wiretapping for the crime of corruption. And who knows if this circumstance, perhaps, did not come in handy to the Naples Public Prosecutor in the famous Consip case, about which so little has been talked about in this Parliament. And let us not doubt that tomorrow, during the debate on the motion of no confidence against Mr Lotti, this name will finally be pronounced. Perhaps the Public Prosecutor of Naples was able to begin to investigate corruptive phenomena, with environmental and telephone interceptions that were then interrupted - as we know by virtue of these hypotheses of aiding and revealing secret - and a process was cassato, precisely because of the interceptions were possible. The maximum sentence of five to six years, which was wanted by the 5 Star Movement and also voted by the forces that voted on that amendment, made it possible to intercept telephone calls for that crime. Otherwise, if that sentence, Senator Falanga, referred to in Article 318 of the penal code had not become six years old, probably today (or rather tomorrow) we would not even be talking about the resignation of Minister Lotti. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I think I've finished my time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u28	Your time is up, Senator Buccarella.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u29	BUCCARELLA (M5S). I would like to thank and greet him, remembering that another point deserves to be dealt with and I hope that colleagues who will speak after me will be able to talk about it. I am referring to an unusual gag that you want to put to the citizens, provided for in article 35, paragraph 1: the diffusion of audio or video content, maybe taken with your phone, if deemed by the people portrayed as offensive of your reputation and basically of defamatory character, on the basis of the delegation that the Government wants to assume with the confidence that it is applying, is punishable up to four years of imprisonment. That sounds really crazy to me. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u30	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u31	Mr President, when the draft law came to our examination by the House of Deputies, I took on the role of co-rapporteur and, from the very beginning, I realized that it was modest, indeed I would say that it was mediocrity and that it even contained defects of constitutional legitimacy, which were healed within the Justice Commission. The draft law under consideration, apart from any prosopopea, is absolutely not the solution to the problems of the criminal trial. Indeed, the text that came from the Chamber of Deputies in some parts has been improved by the Justice Commission, but in others it has been worse. And I think - for example - about the subject of prescription. Once we had completed our work in the Justice Commission, we all promised to come to this House with a number of improved amendments on a number of points, which I shall mention in an attempt, as far as possible, to correct that modest text. Now, on the other hand, the path of trust has been chosen, which cuts off any discussion and possibility of improvement, perhaps to bring a flag to the Minister and the Government. I shall now turn to the points I mentioned in my report at the beginning of the debate in this House and then to the reply. I shall confine myself to mentioning the most negative situations of the whole affair from a technical point of view. The first theme is that of prescription. In the House of Deputies and also in this House, the Government has decided for a speech which, in the end, is simply a warm cloth. The only positive note of the prescription system, as presented in this House, is that it has removed the so-called ex-Cirielli law. For the rest, a whole series of systemic errors has been made, precisely because the problem at its root has not been addressed. Senators from different groups have tabled amendments, both in this House and in the Commission, to try to prevent what is happening, i.e. the continuous limitation, every year, of about 140,000 processes. These are prescriptions for very serious and incessant events such as the massacre of Viareggio, the deaths due to asbestos and the facts of corruption. Only system intervention can lead to a change in procedural developments from this point of view and the proposals contained in the amendments did not exist in the air or coming from Mars. In order to give an indication, the proposals of the Democratic Party, made by the Minister of Justice himself, were accepted, in line with the existing norms in all - or almost - European countries, when he did not yet play this role. Nevertheless, a clear censorship and closure have been opposed and, therefore, we will continue to sail blindly in the matter of prescription. The second very important issue is that of notifications. We know that electronic and computer-based electronic mail (PEC) is being carried out, especially in the civil process. It is absolutely incomprehensible, in some ways, that in the criminal process we do not want to do the same and why notifications are made basically as in the Middle Ages - that is, almost on horseback or in carriage - and we do not want to use modern instruments and technology. Perhaps he gave in to the lobbying of some attorney, rather than going towards modernity even in the criminal sector and not only in the civil sector. Another issue is the obligation for the prosecutors-general to invoke, after a very short period of three months, the files of the preliminary investigations. On this I want to be very clear: who has decided the rule contained in Article 18 of the provision or does not realize what it means, or acts in bad faith. In fact, this means completely blowing up general prosecutors without solving the problem. General prosecutors will jump because they do not have men, means and structures to do what ordinary prosecutors do not do. In addition, instead of staying to sleep and rot within the prosecutors of the Republic, the files will stop in the general prosecutors, with the same deleterious effect. Others were the roads indicated in the amendments that this House should have examined. Another very sensitive issue concerns residences for the execution of security measures (EMS). On the basis of Law No. 81 of 30 May 2014, it would have been desired to arrive at the concrete overcoming of psychiatric judicial hospitals, through the mental health departments within which the REMS operate. 18.51 (Followed by Mr Cassison). The remarkable work done marked a choice and a leap of civilization. Instead, with the text brought to our attention, which cannot be changed, we take a step back, because in certain respects, in certain limited situations, we risk returning to the situation of the past, in relation to people with mental illness, of the detention that has occurred and therefore to reopen sectors, albeit limited, of the old psychiatric judicial hospitals. However, this aspect cannot be changed either. Another sensitive issue, on which amendments had been tabled, is that of telephone interceptions and computer receivers. Among other things, in the amendments we also had some suggestions from the operators. And there was even an amendment, which should have been tabled and discussed, shared by all the members of the Parliamentary Committee for the Security of the Republic (COPASIR), of majority and opposition, of the Chamber of Deputies and of the Senate, which was facing certain dysfunctions. However, this possibility of intervention has been prevented. In the same way, in the legislation on the confidentiality of interceptions, it would have been appropriate to include another rule, in order to prevent other Council cases, or rather the revelations of office secrets, such as those which occurred in the Council case. These are rules that can no longer be discussed and which remain outside the draft law under consideration. Other proposals concerned the issue of crimes against public administration. There were points on which to intervene, in order to allow the investigation forces, the judicial police and the judiciary, a greater chance of combating these forms of crime. Even in this case everything was cut with the hatchet. On the other hand, there is certainly a positive part, in inspiration and intentions, and it also contains the concrete rules, which is the one relating to the penitentiary system and the prison system, which certainly makes a leap of civilization in its prospect. Well, as we had also said publicly, this part could be discussed quietly and voted very broadly by a large part of this House, with some minor corrections that could have been made. We could also have separated the parties and proceeded on all the other points that I have pointed out in a more thoughtful and profound way. On the other hand, a different path has been chosen: to put a flag for the Minister of Justice in office. Faced with this situation of rejection of the debate, refusal to improve and deepen, as a technician, I cannot vote in favour of the draft law under consideration, not even with the position of the question of trust. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u32	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers and students of the Secondary School of First Degree (Alfredo Oriani) of Casola Valsenio, in the province of Ravenna, and of the Institute including Giovanni Pascoli (Giovanni Pascoli) of Riolo Terme, in the province of Ravenna, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u33	I give the floor to the President of the Budget Committee, Senator Tonini, to report to the House on the financial cover profiles of amendment 1,900.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u34	Mr President, on the basis of a well-established practice, which has become a tradition of the Senate - incidentally, I say that perhaps it would be a good day to receive it, when we can also deal with it in the regulatory framework - the 5th Budget Commission has examined the text of the maxi amendment, on which the Government has put the question of trust. As the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro, has correctly communicated to the Assembly, the maxi amendment incorporates the text approved by the Commission in substance, supplemented by some amendments, which, however, do not present, from the point of view of the 5th Commission, any financial importance, as is also attested by the technical report boiled down by the General Accounting of the State. On the other hand, the Commission did not accept in the text of the maxi amendment the condition set out in its opinion by the 5th Commission, namely the provision of an opinion of the same Commission on the interministerial decree provided for in paragraph 89. This condition was laid down by the 5th Commission in view of the financial importance of the rule in question. The interministerial decree is associated, in fact, with interventions on the expenditure and budget of the State absolutely significant. The technical report annexed to the amendment tabled in the second Commission, and now annexed to the maxi amendment on which the Government has put its trust, are in fact associated with savings objectives which, under the regime, are entirely significant: 50 million savings are mentioned. In the view of the 5th Commission, it would create a precedent which could not be recommended if objectives of this financial importance could be pursued by means of secondary acts which do not have parliamentary verification and feedback, of course within the time limits laid down in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. In other words, these are opinions which the Government will then be able to accept as it sees fit to do. However, an opinion is mandatory, although of course not binding, in accordance with our legal order. So, Mr President, I insist on the Government's request. Moreover, it is in the practice of this House: the dialogue between the 5th Commission and the Government takes place, under the presidency of the Senate, in a completely transparent way and we have dozens, perhaps hundreds of precedents of rules expunged from the text of other major amendments and clauses introduced on the basis of the requests of the 5th Commission. I am, therefore, complying with the request that, after paragraph 89, a paragraph 89- bis of the following content be inserted: the decree referred to in paragraph 89 is transmitted, accompanied by a technical report, to the standing committees responsible for financial profiles, for the relevant opinion. This is the recommendation that the 5th Commission makes to the Government. Of course, you have rightly reminded us, in your mandate, of the constitutional prerogatives of the Government that, when trust is placed, they are absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u37	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to confirm the request made by President Tonini, who sees me in perfect agreement, and to support it with other comments I have made in the Commission and which, with a very polite aspect - as is his custom - President Tonini did not want to put forward himself, knowing that I would have taken the floor in this House to confirm what I said in the Commission. The issue is of some importance both in terms of methodology and in terms of substance. As far as methodology is concerned, President Tonini has already said very well: we know very well the limits of our discussion and our remarks in the trusted phase. We also know, however, that parliamentary practice has always improved, so as to accept or use articles that presented problems under Article 81 of the Constitution or - as in this case - even the inclusion of a mere condition that does not change the text of the measure in some of its parts, but accompanies it with a procedural request. The latest precedents are all in the sense of peaceful acceptance of the requests made by the Budget Commission. It is true, Mr President, that it remains the constitutional prerogative of the Government, when it comes to trust, to be able to assume responsibility for a rule of discovery. However, the fact remains that, in that case, the Government would violate the Constitution. The prerogative of the 5th Commission is directly derived from Article 81 of the Constitution. And, therefore, if our observation is not accepted by the Government, the amendment can certainly be submitted to the vote of confidence, and Parliament expresses itself in its total freedom. This, however, is an absolutely uncommentable precedent, which can be subjected in the last instance - already happened - to the provisions of Article 81 in the promulgation by the President of the Republic. These are things that have already happened and in the past. Mr President, on a practical level, this really is not even a question of censorship: it is a request for something that has happened several times also for decrees that are not of legislative importance, but derived, even if of high administration, as a ministerial decree. Mr President, the question to which the problem must be raised - the Government may be able to confirm this - is that the issue of off-balance-sheet debts for interceptions has been prolonged for some time in the Ministry of Justice's budget with effects, then, on the state budget. As is well known, there are two prerogatives and, in the end, for concrete reasons, there are overflows in relation to the budget items provided for in the budget. And this, perhaps, is an opportunity to begin to remedy it. Mr President, since I am not going to go into this matter because it is not my job at the moment to do so, even if I have a personal opinion on it, I believe that the request of the Ministry of Justice to have a number of interceptions beyond the budgetary allocation is correct. However, it has a greater importance in my view for the correct accounting of budget items. With a process such as the one requested by the Budget Commission, we can in time begin to finally have, except for the criticisms of the merit that will be carried out in each seat, a correct accounting, bringing the extent of the allocation to the actual expenditure. This is an effort that all the parliamentary groups have supported over the years. This small affair can be useful in bringing the budget approved by Parliament to an ever greater correspondence with actual expenditure. The request, therefore, is not purely of principle, even if it would be of relevance to what was argued in the first part of my speech, but it also has a concrete value, which I think is interest not of this Government, but of the Government. I also believe that it is not this or that Group's interest, but Parliament's, to get these posts properly accounted for. The budget committee has simply asked for this and I feel I have to say - once again I thank President Tonini for the kindness with which he has allowed me to make these further comments which he did not wish to make personally, knowing that I would have done so in this House - that I fully agree with the request of the President of the 5th Commission. I believe I have added a few arguments for the Government to accept the proposal for reformulation. President. - The next item is the report (Doc. I remember that we have corrected much more in the course of various occasions. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u38	He asked the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance Morando to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u39	Mr President, the Government accepts the request made by the Budget Commission to introduce the opinion of the Committees responsible for the financial aspects of the interministerial decree to carry out the restructuring of the intercepting expenditure provided for by the rule in question, as demonstrated by the technical report submitted in conjunction with the text of the maxi amendment on which the Government has put the question of trust. We accept this proposal for a reason which concerns the financial importance of the measure which is administrative in nature. I think it is peaceful that the opinion we are talking about - as President Tonini said, but I want to reiterate it - and that the Budget Committee will formulate on the text of the interministerial decree will not be expressed under Article 81, as is the case when the Budget Committee examines a draft law. It will simply allow the Budgetary Commission to make an assessment on the specific point. Since the law delegates and the related technical report assume that the interministerial decree must carry out a price restructuring operation relating to these benefits, so as to reduce expenditure for significant values, the budgetary commission, examining the technical report to be accompanied by the interministerial decree, will express its assessment of the perfect achievement of this objective. So it seems to me that the solution that is being proposed is absolutely balanced. It is clear that the technical report accompanying the legislative text now before the Senate is perfectly complete regardless of the observation made by the Budget Commission. The text that we are proposed to supplement is intended simply to ensure that this interministerial decree, which has a very significant financial significance, can be adopted by the Budget Commission with its own opinion. It is clear, however, that, unlike what happens when the opinion is expressed in the legislative article 81, the Government will be able to standardize it or may decide not to do so, perhaps arguing on the reasons for this choice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Thank you for your clarification, Deputy Minister Morando. Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u40	Mr President, it is not a ritual for the President of the Health Commission to intervene in the debate on a measure on justice. However, I am used to talking about what I know, because there is a very delicate part in the measure we are examining - on which the Health Commission and the entire Senate have worked very well over the years and you too, President, have seen in the front row with us - which concerns psychiatric hospitals and their final overcoming, which we celebrated no more than a few weeks ago and which today is in danger of being frustrated. We risk frustrating the laws n. 9 of 2012 and n. 81 of 2014, which are important laws of parliamentary initiative that, in a very clear way, have established that we must requalify the mental health departments, but also contain the total number of beds to be made in the health structures for the execution of the sentence. Overcoming psychiatric judicial hospitals has meant deciding that the people who have been convicted, and on whom there is a mental health relief, are put in structures no longer prisons in the classical sense, but health care, aimed at the rehabilitation of the person according to a dictation of mild law; a rehabilitation that is then established at the end of the scheduled time to serve the sentence. I therefore believe that we have overcome the shame of the white life sentence, which saw people staying in those facilities for the rest of their lives. Instead, with Law No 81 of 2014 it is clearly said that, once the sentence is served, we proceed with a new expertise to evaluate the state of the person and of the patients for whom the persistent social danger has been established, documented in a punctual way, and they define the reasons - I am quoting the text of the measure - that support the exceptionality and the transitoryness of the continuation of the hospitalization. If the hospitalization in the REMS cannot last longer than the time set for the prison sentence for the crime committed, I have many doubts that the part relating to the REMS within the measure under consideration is free from ambiguity and very serious contradictions. I believe that the law is being rejected and I do not understand why the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance gave the green light to Senator Mussini's amendment, which was then approved by the Commission, while the amendment correcting what I consider to be a bad interpretation of the law, a denial of the law itself, was considered to be burdensome. If Senator Mussini's amendment says, in essence, that people who are in prison facilities and have mental health problems, even if they have not yet been established and in any case before the sentence is defined, can be transferred to the REMS, then I pose two problems. The first concerns the contradiction with Law No 81 of 2014 and its spirit. The second point, which is not irrelevant, concerns costs. Let us also admit that it is correct - and in my opinion it is not, because the REMS have another function - if you send those people into the REMS, the latter must become more numerous and, therefore, you have to build new ones. We already know that there is currently a waiting list for entry into the REMS, a correct waiting list. We also know that there is an attempt to put in the REMS people who come from outside who, therefore, have not made the path provided for by the law. We know all this and we also know that building new structures costs. Nor has a balance been made between the costs of building new REMS and those of staff. There will certainly be no thought of throwing human beings into the EMS without adequate personnel! I would also like to point out that there is a shortage of staff in the REMS already in operation. However, the amendment that corrected this situation was considered to be burdensome: it is incomprehensible. Secondly, Mr President - and I also say this to Vice-President Casson - it does not say that these people end up in the REMS only in limited cases; it is a slightly more general definition. That too is incomprehensible. I think, if we do this, we actually reconstruct psychiatric judicial hospitals. We are talking, therefore, about a heterogeneous of the ends, which starts from good intentions, and I do not question it. On the dramatic issue of prison health and also mental health, it is clear that specific measures would be needed, as we have often said, and as the Garante dei contenuti and the associations have said. There an investment must be made, and not an urban investment in the construction of new structures (that is an urban investment). So these are good intentions with heterogeneous ends. And, as they say, of good intentions is paved the way to hell: that hell that so many people have known in psychiatric judicial hospitals; that hell made of contentiousness, violation of civil rights, daily violence; that hell that has nullified dignity. Well, now we run the risk of rebuilding that path. Mr President, as you know, I welcome the many appeals that have also come to you from many parts. They are not ideological appeals, but very serious and come from people who have experience of this dramatic problem that undermines the civilization of a country. Allow me, Mr President, therefore, to address Mr Orlando, who has worked very hard on these measures, on overcoming psychiatric hospitals in the courts. With the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health we have worked very well in this field. I therefore ask you not to go back more than 20 years, because this is happening. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Gatti]] I am confident and I will vote for this Government, but I hope that Minister Orlando will review this position in the delegation - and even before that, if possible - which is not correct. Everyone, in fact, must be able to have a second chance in life and must be able to have them in a serious way. But I think that the second opportunity must also be given to a measure that really started a bit lame. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u42	Mr President, if we were to use the rhetorical figure of the syneddoche, beyond the vote of confidence we would have to judge the whole thing on the side, and the portion of the measure we are considering most recurrent even in the previous speeches was that relating to limitation. The reform of this institute has been the most controversial and divisive intervention and has led to a much-access debate both in Parliament and in the country. It is precisely on this point that the attention of our Group has been focused, which expresses its profound opposition to the bill that extends the terms of the limitation of offences. In our view, first of all, this kind of revision of the statute of limitations constitutes an act of barbarity of judicial policy and at the same time represents a totally unsolving mode of the serious and long-standing problems afflicting criminal justice in Italy. The real problem of criminal justice is certainly not the excessive short-term limitation periods, but rather the multiple organisational inefficiencies, which are the real cause of traffic jams, delays and, therefore, the ripening of prescriptions that then very often define criminal processes. (at 7.20 p.m.) (Following BRUNI). These deficiencies result in serious damage that weighs cross-border on all involved: suspects, accused (be they condemned or acquitted) and the same civil parts, i.e. persons damaged by criminally relevant conduct. These shortcomings also weigh on the credibility of the justice system, the country system and the image of Italy also vis-à-vis foreign partners, those who are interested in coming to invest in Italy. This reckless reform of the statute of limitations entirely subordinates the criminal process to the decisions of the judiciary. It is not a question of criticizing here whether the judiciary is more or less conditioning the fate of the trial or of suspects and defendants; that is not the issue. Certainly, however, the trial arises when a magistrate decides to register a crime report and dies when another magistrate decides to celebrate a trial on the basis of more or less dilated timings, dictated more by the media context, when it comes to crimes that have a media impact, than by the demand to render justice. Obviously everything that is outside the media-justistic resonance box remains abandoned to the new discipline of prescription and, therefore, goes on another track in parallel with the most significant media cases. It is unthinkable - in our opinion - that on the wave of populism - a factor which, unfortunately, represents the figure of this legislative initiative, strongly supported by the Government and its majority, as we also see with the vote of confidence required today, uses the instrument of prescription, harming constitutionally protected goods, such as the one, so flagrant, of the right process and that of the right of defence of the citizen. It is a measure that is the result of agreements and compromises necessary to hold a majority which, even on such a very delicate subject, has shown clear signs of difficulty in composing what we could now call the personality disorder, of which it seems chronically affected. The vote of confidence requested this evening affects the debate and the outcome of the measure and, perhaps, also stems from the Minister's request to arrive quickly to show that it comes to an end, as there are also issues that are all internal to the Democratic Party Congress. Agreements and compromises - as we said - have given us a text in many ways unconstitutional, and in particular detrimental to the fundamental right of citizens to obtain justice. And when we say "getting justice" we mean that the trials must be concluded, first of all, in a short time and, in any case, with a judgment of merit, be it absolution or condemnation. The categorical imperative of a modern state is for us the reasonable duration of the process. We express an opposition, in particular, to the rule that doubles the time limit for corruption offences and satellite crimes which, given the increases in penalties introduced by Law No 69 of 2015, become, in fact, imprecribable. It is precisely in relation to this type of crime that we believe is the greater interest of the suspect and of the community to a final and prompt judgment. This is not the way to combat the serious phenomenon of corruption. On the contrary, we believe that such a stalemate contributes, in the continuing uncertainty about the outcome of the trial, to harming the fundamental rights not only of the citizen subjected to criminal proceedings, but also of the entire community that has the sacrosanct right to know - for example - whether a politician has mismanaged, making himself responsible for a crime of corruption. Not only that: the establishment of this reform does not take into account a well-established and well-known figure, i.e. that more than 70% of the requirements mature during the preliminary investigations. It is not a guarantee of a way to emphasize that, for the citizen, the most serious penalty is linked to the personal, family, social and economic consequences resulting from the incline of endless trials. There are many arguments that could lead us to a negative vote, as well as not expressing the vote of confidence on this measure. I therefore repeat our position of opposition, which would be even stronger if - for example - we were still concerned with the subject of interceptions. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u43	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u44	Mr President, we missed a chance. We are faced with an important measure, which could be even more important, if not decisive. Let's talk about the changes to the penal code and the criminal procedure code. As everyone knows, it is not necessary to watch the evening news to realize that we are at a very difficult time, where we have a very widespread perception of the general lack of security. And we keep talking, as if it was a subject that used to be for lawyers' lounges, but that now seems to occupy even the most banal dinner among friends, the certainty of punishment. Here, on the other hand, we have a measure that has points that still give us doubts, beyond the training process; let us think of the fact that almost fifty draft laws have been combined with this measure. And then, as a surprise, and perhaps for reasons which have not even been so clear to us, some draft laws have been drawn up, including the draft law signed by the North League, which has also reached the Chamber of Deputies and which deals with the exclusion of the abbreviated rite for particularly serious crimes; a measure which had already received a vote of approval from the House and this could be an opportunity to discuss it and perhaps speed up its process. Although it is said that, by keeping it aside, it could be easier to conclude, we have serious doubts about it. Now let us remember what is within this provision. We have talked about the requirements of the 5th Commission, but let us also look at the content of the measure. Let's remember that there is a hypothesis of extinction of the crime, yet another hypothesis - let's also call it "not punishable," even if it is not the technical term - to exclude the possibility of being prosecuted for a crime, if you keep some remedial conduct, or if you pay the damage. This happens for almost all of the crimes that are punished up to four years, that is to say for the crimes that are said to be dealt with in this provision only on complaint. What's that gonna mean, gentlemen? It is true that the attitude of those who have committed the crime may be relevant, but it cannot even come to the end of the crime itself, because in some respects there is almost a lack of census. Those who have the money to repair a damage at that point have the possibility of being free from punishment. And this is a hypothesis that we believe should not be part of our order, although we understand what the will is. The will is to avoid proceedings in court as much as possible; the aim is to avoid the burden of judicial bodies; the aim is to avoid prison; the aim is to prevent overcrowding. In other words, buffer measures continue to be taken on issues which, on the contrary, should be resolved upstream. But we hope that, as we continue to do, the right suggestion can sometimes be made. Within the measure is then provided the possibility that, for all offences punished with a financial penalty or with a sentence of up to four years, it is possible to proceed only to sue. Here, too, an almost discouraging system of initiative is created, in the sense that at some point only the initiative of the offending party will be needed. The latter sometimes, gentlemen, will also be afraid of reprisals, may have some scruples, may not intend to sue. The office procedure is a guarantee. Although we are talking about crimes with a contained penalty, this will create a further hypothesis, that is, that if the victim does not file a complaint, the criminal will not have any kind of repercussions and no consequences. There are also other hypotheses that have not been mentioned, such as those concerning the conversion of the prison sentence into a financial penalty. To date there is a conversion according to which, for every day of imprisonment, you have to pay 250 euros. Now the amount is changed, decreasing it. It is obvious that this will also create an incentive for those who want to make the conversion of the penalty, thereby settling after paying money. We believe that this is yet another way of meeting - if we can say so - the people who commit crimes. Then we get to the articles that we find absolutely incomprehensible, according to our vision and our perspective and according to what we would like was the penal code. And we would also like our fellow citizens to read Article 36 when it comes to alternative measures to prison. There are a number of hypotheses, which would be enough simply to read, because our fellow citizens must know. We are talking about measures to promote re-educational treatment and also to grant prison benefits to those sentenced to life imprisonment. I read: "Strengthening contacts with the outside world as a guiding criterion in fundamental activities as a function of social reintegration." I would like our fellow citizens to know that the directives are the maximum compliance of prison life with external life, the dynamic surveillance. Or we also come to speak - and we know what a delicate topic we are touching - about exercising the rights associated with the activity of worship. Let us be careful, because we are talking about issues of worship and prison. There are problems inherent in a certain type of religious profession. This measure therefore deals with prescription, interception and other very important, fundamental and divisive issues. However, confidence has been put in place, rather than assessing all the very important amendments that have been made, which could have opened a real debate on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure. We continue to make proposals which, at this point, remain totally unanswered. We have put forward proposals concerning, for example, the exclusion of the plea and the conditional suspension of the sentence for many of the offences. We have made proposals, not least, on the forgotten issue of self-defense. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]] We must remember what happened to the House of Deputies, where the Northern League Group presented the draft law, at the first signature of Mr Molteni, aimed at amending Article 52 of the penal code. In our opinion, there must be the presumption of self-defense for those who are attacked at home, in their home - which should be sacred - by a person who enters armed and misrepresented, perhaps in a group. Those who act to reject this kind of threat must be in a state. Of course, we do not want to say that the people have to be armed and that every citizen has to get a gun or a machine gun to keep at home. We are simply saying that, within the parliamentary classrooms, we must consider together, with seriousness and responsibility, a rule by which it is clear to the criminal that he cannot enter the home of an Italian. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]] There must be a mechanism of serious deterrent. Our proposal, which was examined in the Justice Committee in the House of Members, came to this House and was overturned by the adoption of an amendment that intervened on the excessive manslaughter of self-defense, providing for several cases of serious mental disturbances that might have led the subject to act, thus again giving rise to a whole series of discretionary elements to be put forward in the judicial rooms. There is something not effective and efficient and the measure has returned to the Commission and is still there, under tons of sand. We had the opportunity to talk about this issue, we lost it and we are still here to talk about trust. In conclusion, the measure contains measures that we can also share. However, a bill that intervenes on the penal code and the code of procedure without providing for the elimination of all so-called empty prison measures, will never be able to find our vote in favour. Two or three years ago, the subject on the agenda was the overcrowding of prisons. Measures have been taken that seemed almost emergent and that, in fact, have often been adopted by decree-law. The system that has affected our criminal law in emerging terms has now entered fully into the legal order, is no longer an emergency remedy, with the consequence that there continue to be all those benefits of a prison type and not (I think about early liberation or the institute of testing). We are talking about continuous benefits for criminals, to prevent them from going to prison (I am thinking of extending the application of house arrests and the provision of home imprisonment). Gentlemen, it is useless to remember them and explain them at any time, because by now any citizen knows them because he sees the attitude of today's criminal, who arrives in Italy being faced, certainly not with the country of Bengodi, but certainly with a very guaranteeing, open and in some respects discretionary legislation. This certainly leads the criminal to have the feeling that in Italy, in some way, he can do it. This is regrettable, because our citizens know and understand this. We must therefore address today's crime problem, which is also particularly violent and has no scruples. We're not in front of the apartment rat who, if discovered in the house, is more afraid than his victim is. Here we are faced with people who, for a few hundred euros, kill or commit harmful and violent acts. We cannot tackle this problem simply by means of "beautiful" interventions, but we must intervene substantially. We hope that other measures which are being examined by the Chambers will still be able to do so. That is why we can only anticipate our unfavourable vote on this measure, especially after the question of trust has been raised, losing, as has been said, yet another opportunity to adopt good legislation. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u45	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u46	Mr President, I would ask you to hand over the written text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. I use the time available to me only to refer, in particular, to Article 31 of the bill in question, which tends to modify the penitentiary order. In the text that I will hand over to the Presidency, I have focused on this article, particularly appreciating what is written in the text, because, as has already been said, prison is transformed from the place of punishment to the place where possible strategies are put in place to guide those in difficulty towards paths of life alternative to deviance. It is therefore a real revolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u47	The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the written text of its speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u48	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u49	Mr President, I would like to begin my speech where my colleague, Senator Falanga, concluded it, recalling that, most likely, a person who is convicted of a crime, thirty years after he has committed it, is no longer the same person. So the order punishes a subject who, over the years, surely is no longer the same as when he committed the crime and, however, the conviction arrives so far out of time that it is somehow incomprehensible. I start from this concept, because Mr Falanga has forgotten the other possibility we have before us, namely that the person in question, after ten, twenty or thirty years of trial, is innocent. Even the citizen who, after so many years of trial, turns out to be innocent is a changed citizen. He has changed, even though he is innocent, because his life has been changed by this mechanism, especially for certain crimes, which, for example, if he is an officer, lead him to be suspended from duty, to be paid half a salary, or to have to pay expensive lawyers. He is therefore led to enter a tunnel, which, as has been effectively mentioned here, however, even if he is innocent, will destroy his life, that of his family members, his honour, his work and his career. I would like to reflect on this point: Ernest Hemingway wrote for those who play the bell, remembering an old verse of an English poet, saying that it is necessary to be careful, because the bell also sounds for you. So when we approve the rules or apply new legislation, we also need to think about what will happen when they are applied. Tomorrow I believe that we will have a bad example, with the distrust of a minister, in a process in which the application of the new crime of trafficking in illicit influences is "wasting" (from the first moment I asked in vain in this House and in the Commission what exactly it meant to mean). In fact, we are not just talking about increasing the limitation period - and then I will say exactly how much this term is increased - but we are also talking about crimes against the public administration, that is, crimes that have been "widened" in recent years, making even less precise the charge that is being made to the citizen who is being charged. For example, the undue induction to give or promise usefulness is an accusation that leaves the magistrate wide discretion in indicating what the crime is committed. I remind myself and the Assembly that in the 1950s and 1960s one of the vantages of Italian criminal doctrine was to say that in Italy it could never have happened that a citizen ended up in prison if not for certain crimes specified in the penal code, so it was worth the saying: "bad not to do, fear not to have" and it was taken as a negative parameter the Soviet Union code that had a famous closing clause according to which antisocialist activity was a crime. Being an anti-socialist crime, anyone could be hit and accused of carrying out anti-socialist activities. Today, in Italy, we can no longer say, as thirty years ago, that we can end up in prison or be tried only for typical crimes because, for example, from the beginning it is the Office of the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court asked what it meant to mean the crime of trafficking in illicit influence and what was the limit between the lawful and the illegal influence. Now, with this measure, which I imagine most of my colleagues are getting ready to vote, we are taking action again. I also made a scheme to understand what would happen on the basis of this measure. We have a record: we have passed, for corruption in judicial acts - second paragraph, second period of article 319-b of the penal code - from twenty to twenty-five years. Now, not to mention a hundred years ago, after 2015 there was talk of a prescription from twenty to twenty-five years. With this measure we carry it to thirty-three years and beyond. I repeat: thirty-three years and beyond of trial. The legal order, therefore, says that if Mr. Bianchi or Mr. Rossi today are accused of having committed a crime such as corruption in judicial acts, through a series of mechanisms of interruption or parametery depending on the judgments of first and second degree, before the crime is prescribed, to be judged and to know if they are innocent or guilty, they can wait even more than thirty-three years, that is, all life. In fact, if they charge you that you're thirty years old, up to sixty-five-six-six years old, I can keep you on trial and tell you at sixty-six years old that you're innocent. But this is the most serious crime. As for the undue induction to give or promise usefulness - we are already to crimes that are a bit less clear to define - we range from the eight years that were planned until 2015, to the eighteen years and nine months and beyond foreseen by this provision, that is to say we are close to twenty years for the prescription of this type of crime, as for all crimes against public administration such as corruption for the exercise of the function, and the act contrary to the duty of office, the cases provided for in Articles 318 and 319, as well as for the already mentioned corruption in judicial acts referred to in Article 319-b. For all these cases, the limitation periods are substantially doubled. We have been discussing for years the need for a fair trial and its response in a reasonably short time to the citizen and here we are voting, or rather you are voting and you want to vote, a rule that makes the trials eternal. A prayer came to mind: "The eternal rest gives them, Lord." In this case it could be said: The eternal trial gives them, Government. We are promising citizens the eternal trial against them. Of course, these are crimes for which the sentence has already been increased in 2015 and so many times start with the arrest, that is, we start with where we should end. Once a citizen is found guilty, it is right that he give his sentence in prison. In this case, instead, we begin to reverse, that is to arrest the citizen on the basis of a particularly high edittal penalty (and just go and see the reality of what has happened in recent years to understand it) the more unjustified the arrest, the evidence is shaky, the accusatory design shows limits, the more the trial does not do so, despite the fact that the person who ended up in prison, once he left, does everything to be tried, to prove his innocence. Here begins the difficult. When the prosecution is shaky from the outset, neither the prosecutor nor the judiciary has any interest in making a trial that would prove the initial error. I have cases of parliamentary colleagues who, after seven to eight years of arrest, have been able to close without even being put to trial. I quote the case of Mr Di Giandomenico who, after eight years in prison, in prison, in pain, in suffering and without even being sent back to trial, has not even seen the trial begin. I could mention a lot of other cases of real legal barbarism. We cannot introduce elements of legal barbarity, which are often completely unjustified, into the legal order. The other day we talked about something terrible about the substance, but rather simple in fact: the rape to which a minor was subjected. It was not a difficult trial; it was not a trial against the Mafia with hundreds of defendants: there was a defendant and a victim. We learned that after twenty years he went to prescribed, that it took ten years to do the first degree and then, between the first degree and the appeal, they "sleeped" for another ten years. Where were the presidents of the courts, the prosecutors, the magistrates who are so numerous inside the offices of the Ministry of Justice and who are always at the forefront in television broadcasts, who write essays, who participate in debates and make their congresses? Do you think that a case can be solved by taking the prescription from twenty to thirty years instead of forcing the system to give a service and justice response to citizens in reasonable and true times? Unfortunately, for this reason our vote is against, the measure goes in the wrongest direction possible to give a feeling and a reality of justice to the Italian citizens. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Dirindin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u50	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I too am speaking on a measure concerning justice, which is not exactly the subject I am dealing with specifically, but I am doing so to take up again the issue of residences for the implementation of security measures (EMS). Unfortunately, I am dismayed, bitter and very worried. I am appalled at the fact that the provisions of the current point 16 of the maxi amendment, former Article 12 (d) of the measure, restores solutions that we have tried to overcome tirelessly for so many years. They were even the subject of speeches by the President of the Republic with very strong words and now we risk reopening that season. I am bitter because - I tell the representatives of the government - we have done everything to try again this last week to find solutions that can be travelled in compliance with the rules and procedures. Each attempted solution has not led to any results and even the promise made this morning to include a reference to the rules adopted just a few years ago I do not see it included in the maxi amendment. Finally, I am very concerned about the consequences of paragraph 16. Let me then entertain the House in order to try to give some further indication of the risks - many have already preceded me - and then to try to share together what the solutions might be. Point 16 regulates a specific case: the case in which - I read it because I have the impression that much of what has happened is due to the complexity that is not sufficiently understood - prison institutions are not suitable to guarantee therapeutic-rehabilitative treatment, with reference to the specific needs of the subjects, in full respect of the Constitution. Discipline the case where penitentiary institutions are unable to guarantee health protection for prisoners is an important thing that we all share. What would have been expected is a rule that provides for time, conditions, criteria, resources and prescriptions so that what the law has long said - or that inside prisons are set up, where there are no, special sections to ensure therapeutic-rehabilitative assistance - is done. Instead, with this rule we offer to those who have not been able to make suitable within the prisons the sections that have to deal with the mental health of the prisoners, sometimes guilty, sometimes because they could not do otherwise (in Italy not everywhere, but in some cases), a shortcut to continue to be guilty, indifferent or inattentive towards the mental health of the prisoners who are in prison. This shortcut is very dangerous, even if we offer it as an alternative to organizing mental health services within prisons. Why is this happening? In the meantime, because point 16 provides for the extension of the audience of people potentially admitted to the REMS, including those (this is sufficiently clear to all, even those who do not deal with justice) for whom the condition of mental discomfort has yet to be established; it is said that they must go to the REMS, rather than to the SPDCs of hospitals or mental health departments. This rule restores in fact the old Manicomial logic, creating prison structures dedicated only to the mentally ill, which is exactly what for many decades, after the Law Basaglia, we have tried to achieve, and provides for the multiplication of these health structures and, in the near future, a related increase in costs. What was then to be done? Something different had to be done: in the meantime qualify mental health programs in prisons; in those regions and in those prisons where there are no psychiatric observation departments that the law provides for at least since 2008; convincedly support, by all the institutions competent in the matter of justice and health, the activity of mental health departments, as requested also by the Italian Society of Psychiatry. It was also necessary to enforce the principles of recent legislation, which, with so many difficulties, has succeeded in making important progress. Other steps still need to be taken, but those who have not been able to take these steps to date cannot be legitimated to continue like this, but must be forced to proceed according to the law. I therefore ask the Government, in respect of which I will vote for the trust, because I believe that this Government certainly has the need to continue in the work it is carrying out, that it intervenes decisively in the preparation of delegated decrees to enforce the limits and principles provided for in the civil legislation that we have approved in recent years, providing all the necessary conditions that allow to establish, inside the prisons and in the mental health services of the health companies, what is necessary in order to guarantee the right to care to all the people who need it. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u51	Senator Cappelletti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u52	Mr President, the Government comes to Parliament and raises the question of trust in a measure which limits the possibility of magistrates to use the instrument of interception. This is happening in the midst of the scandal of Consip corruption, so even a member of the Government is being investigated, as if this action of the judiciary was necessary to revive a measure that was left in the Commission to take dust for almost two years. If you want to think wrong, you could consider that the investigation into the biggest tenders in Europe is linked to this sprint and this attempt to put the press in the streets, because - it is clear to the citizens - it is worth recalling what this provision provides: first of all, computer and environmental interceptions will not be possible at home, at the office and in other places, unless the magistrate is certain that criminal activity has taken place there. To date, a well-founded fear of criminal activity was sufficient. In the future, therefore, there will have to be certainty. I wonder: if a magistrate has the certainty that a crime is being committed in a particular environment, why should he set up the interception and perhaps not foresee a break-in to end that crime? Let me give an example: the talks between the entrepreneur Alfredo Romeo and Carlo Russo, friend of the Renzi family, could never have been intercepted with this measure. This is called one-way guaranteeing against the corrupt. This is not the only critical element of this measure. With the bill in question the magistrates will no longer be able to choose the spy computer programs they consider most suitable, but they will have to follow the instructions of the Ministry. It is clear that if it is the Minister who decides the software to be used for all prosecutors, then criminals, corrupts and corrupters will have easier lives to equip themselves with the counter-measures that can neutralize these tools or in any case to be able to detect their presence. Why do government and majority give this advantage to corrupt and corrupters? As if that were not enough, cuts in wiretapping spending are not excluded. It is true that the representative of the Government has stated that this is not her intention, but rather that of reducing the costs of interceptions, but we cannot ignore that the proposed rule is capable of opposing interpretations and that all the amendments of the 5 Star Movement presented in the Commission, which could have healed the ambiguous expressions present in the norm, have been rejected. In short, this appears to be a law that aims to have in our country less investigations for corruption, but not because it fights or contrasts the phenomenon, but simply because it makes the work of the magistrates more difficult and therefore the emergence of crimes. Looks like the Berlusconi government hasn't changed much. This rule also provides for a significant reduction in time for preliminary investigations. Close times for pm will inevitably mean a reduction in the investigation in the processes, and will increase the chances for criminals to get away with it. The prediction of the prison up to four years for all those who will broadcast audiovisual footage fraudulently performed, therefore the prison for those who do information, represents a view of the world on the contrary. Instead of facilitating, promoting and encouraging the emergence of illegal events, we introduce a very heavy criminal sanction for all citizens, not journalists, who spread information of public interest, perhaps simply filmed with their mobile phone. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is not only the 5 Star Movement that has serious reservations about this reform. The president of the National Association of Magistrates Piercamillo Davigo has said otherwise, as well as his predecessor, Rodolfo Sabelli. The ANM has stated that such a delegation risks transforming the delegated legislator, i.e. the Government, into ordinary legislator. The Supreme Council of the judiciary noted that the delegation contained in the draft law presents problematic aspects due to its general nature. Even the chief prosecutors of the major Italian cities audited in the Commission have unanimously declared themselves opposed to an intervention of the legislator in the matter of interceptions, mostly defined as inappropriate. Even Matteo Renzi said on several occasions: "We will not put our hands on the reform of interceptions." I remember some newspaper articles, as I've done before. For example, we read on "Repubblica": "Mano tense di Renzi ai pm: "I don't take off the wiretapping' is replaced by "I don't take off the wiretapping'. "Corriere della Sera": "Interceptions," no change; "Il Messaggero": "Renzi: I don't touch the intercepts" (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (Il Giorno) (Il Giornale) (Il Giornale) (I) (Il Giorno) (Il Giorno) (I) (Il Giorno) (I) (I) (Il Giorno) (I) (I) (Il Gior (Il Giorno) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (Renzi) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I (I (I) (I) (I) (I (I (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I) (I (I (I) (I (I) (I) (I) In fact, we are here to discuss the exact opposite. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's what I think. The Court of Justice of the European Union places the right of news first of all, even before the privacy, in particular (but not only) of politicians. The doctor has not ordered anyone to do politics and those who do it must also set an example. The politician represents the institutions and therefore there are no private behaviors that do not affect public credibility. I think so, but these are not my words, but the number two of the Democratic Party, Debora Serracchiani. I conclude by saying that the National Judicial Association, the Supreme Council of the judiciary and all the prosecutors who audited have openly opposed this measure. Why, then, does this bill of delegation continue to be imposed on Parliament by the Government and the majority? Surely it is not done in the interests of citizens, who daily think of everything except to be intercepted and violated in their privacy. There is a popular saying which I would like to recall and which reads as follows: "Male don't do, fear don't have." With the legislation you are proposing, however, you say the opposite, that you are afraid, that you fear the dissemination of information and interceptions, that you are afraid of having informed and therefore more aware citizens. That is why you are trying to limit the spread of truth to you uncomfortable and that is why we will vote firmly against this measure and against this Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u53	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u54	Mr President, the draft law No 2067 complements the actions taken in recent years aimed at strengthening defensive guarantees and making the system of national justice more efficient, including the stage of criminal enforcement. In fact, the results obtained in these years of government in a strategic sector, that of justice, are indisputable; strategic not only for the effectiveness of the protection of rights, but as more in line with the constitutional parameters of the right process in terms of timing and disposal of pending cases. One of the first and most important problems we had to face in this parliamentary term was the overcrowding of prisons, to which the European Court of Human Rights referred to us in the well-known Torreggiani judgment. We have intervened without recourse to extraordinary instruments (as some have argued), but with structural interventions to modify the system of penalties and enforcement measures of convictions, with particular regard to alternative measures to prison and therefore with initiatives aimed at limiting the phenomenon of revolving doors; initiatives that are an expression of a conception of the function of punishment for which it must aim to re-education (according to constitutional principles) without, however, giving up the effectiveness and certainty of punishment. There was also the establishment of house arrest as the main punishment, asking the magistrates that detention in prison was in practice the extrema ratio, especially in the precautionary phase. However, these measures needed a coherent and structured reordering of the system. For this reason the delegation contained in the bill n. 2067 is a necessary instrument for reform and updating also the phase of criminal execution with the changes to the penitentiary order. In this context, Article 31 introduces principles such as the simplification of procedures for the decisions of the supervisory judiciary, including the implementation of the system of videoconference and distance debate which, while guaranteeing the right to defence, would allow a significant saving of resources. It also calls for a review of the arrangements and conditions for access to alternative measures with regard to punishment and subjective presuppositions, except for the most serious crimes such as mafia and terrorism. The bill also reiterates the need to strengthen what was from the beginning the cornerstone of the new penitentiary system, that is the obligation of scientific observation of the person of the condemned for the individualization of the penitentiary treatment and for a program of reintegration and recovery that, with the offer of different opportunities, between training, education and above all work, can prevent the recurrence with that differentiation of the regional penitentiary circuits that are still waiting for complete implementation. It is in fact in averting the recurrence that gives more security to citizens and not simply keeping them behind walls. The law delegates with the forecast of the elimination of foreclosure automatisms to the access to the penitentiary benefits, and the forecast of remedial justice activities intends to strengthen the system of the external execution, which requires with force moreover to rethink the tasks and functions of all the penitentiary operators. Fundamental remain the principles reaffirmed in the delegation and delivered to the Government, of valorization of the work, both intramurary and external, as an instrument of social recovery, therefore as key elements of the program of penitentiary treatment able to reconnect the condemned with the outside world. However, two issues to which the delegation has drawn attention seem, as my colleagues have pointed out, to remain in the background today, namely the question of the reorganization of penitentiary health and the full overcoming of the OPGs and nursing homes and custody for prison security measures. Finally, particular emphasis is placed on the principle of reordering for minors. The 1975 Reform Act, No 354, provided for transitional rules for an autonomous system for minors. The reference concerned not only the provision of opportunities for education, training and intra-mural work but also eligibility requirements for alternative measures, in particular admission to semi-freedom and probationary custody. Finally, it should be recalled that the delegation contained in the Senate Act 2067 forms part of an accelerated construction of a common European area of judicial cooperation for a single area of freedom, justice and security, based on the principle of mutual trust in national justice systems, and on the mutual recognition of judicial decisions, including those relating to the enforcement of alternative penalties and measures. Our order today relaunches a model of criminal execution, particularly more modern and aimed at the full social recovery of the condemned, in line with the direction of the European system. However, we must not lower our guard over a world, that of prison, which today sees risks of proselytism for Islamic terrorism and new risks of overcrowding in some institutions. The prison as an institution that calls attention to people, even those who daily serve there with self-denial, that is that prison police force that every day in prison suffers these permanent deficiencies, waiting for that right recognition, which we have also promised with the law of stability, for the realignment to the other police forces. A system of justice, what we have outlined, must therefore be able to reconcile the need for security and repression with objectives of protection of rights and guarantees of a process that is finally perceived fairer and fairer. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u55	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government and refer the examination of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u56	I inform you that, subject to agreements between the groups, tomorrow's afternoon sitting is early at 3.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u59	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, on Sunday evening, the vice president of the Regional Council of Molise, Vittorino Facciolla, elected on the Union for the Molise centre-left list, now in the Democratic Party, was the negative protagonist of the well-known television show "Le Iene". The reconstruction done shows the existence of standard citizens That they can easily access, and according to someone even illegally, the funds for post earthquake reconstruction and B-series citizens (I would say third category, for those who chew on football) who still live in houses destroyed after fourteen years. Beyond the style of these transmissions, and waiting for the question to be resolved in the competent fora, Vice President Facciolla has the duty to account for this story to the Molisani, who have felt offended by those images: precisely because he is not a common citizen, but he holds a public office, of high weight, besides being honest he must also "appear" honest. Here's the thing: Faciolla, in agreement with the City Council of her country, through questionable acts and according to some seriously illegitimate ones, has benefited from the funds for the reconstruction of buildings damaged by the earthquake. In the last months of 2014 the Municipal Council of San Martino in Pensilis has issued, on four different dates, four resolutions concerning respectively two city councilors, the brother of the mayor and a city councilman, as well as regional councilor, that is precisely the Facciolla. The peculiarity is that, in order to try to overcome the obvious conflict of interest, the persons directly concerned were absent from each other when the Junta resolved on their respective personal issues. The decisions in question, virtually in photocopy, bore the title "Sanatoria" for the sale of real estate. Through this sanatoria, the right to benefit from the reconstruction funds has been transferred, posthumously, to the entities in question, who had acquired earthquaked buildings in a resounding period prior to the deliberations under consideration. According to the commissioner's order, the right to benefit from the funds was a personal right of the owner. This right could only be transferred to the buyer through prior authorisation, which should have been issued by the municipal administration (and did). This authorization was subject, as is clearly intuitable from the norm, to the assessment of particular requirements, duly documented, which forced the seller to dispose of the property. The time has now come for the 5 Star Movement to respond to the need for transparency, rigour and, above all, credibility that citizens expect from politicians. It is time to demand from the President of the Region that formally clarify this matter in the council and assume a clear public position, regardless of any criminal profiles, on the conduct of one of its city councilors, as well as vice president of the Junta. It is inescapable to make an anti-corruption law... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Let me conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u60	Finish, a word, Senator Castaldi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u61	CASTALDI (M5S). I said that an anti-corruption law is inescapable, because the parties do not take action on their members. [[Applause from Senator Morra]] Mr President, I would ask you to allow me to hand over the remainder of my speech, so that it can be appended to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u62	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u65	FAVERO (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to talk about issues relating to work and the environment, because there is a need to guarantee employees of a company, Sacal, respect for the environment. The aluminum processing company Sacal, which is also based in Carisio, in the province of Vercelli, is experiencing a difficult time. There are ten members-cleaners who have remained without employment and therefore without remuneration, as well as not having received contributions and thirteenth. In these days the situation seems improved, with the absorption of some of these workers and the payment of arrears, but the issue of environmental pollution remains open, for which the CEO of the company was condemned in the first instance. That is why I asked the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of the Environment for immediate action with a parliamentary question. I believe that the Ministry of Labour must ensure that Sacal respects the rights of workers from the point of view of pay, social security and also in the matter of safety, paying all arrears and contributions due. In addition, the company would still fail to comply with environmental regulations: in July 2016 the managing director and the responsible for environmental safety were sentenced to eight months of imprisonment for pollution, compensation for damages and reclamation of the area of the plant, where to date there are still four accumulations of alumina that must be put in safety. The concern is that the procedures of the integrated environmental authorisation (IAA), which should provide for the storage of polluting materials, are suspended, because adequate financial guarantees are lacking from the company. I therefore call for action by the Ministry of the Environment in view of the risk of serious damage to the population, farms and crops. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u68	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am here to give your attention to the closure of a productive reality in my city, Pavia, which affects 78 workers. It is the Marvell Italia and its only Italian headquarters, which settled in Pavia in 2009. Marvell Italia is part of the multinational group Marvell, which is headquartered in the United States: a group with thousands of employees and over two billion dollars of annual turnover. Since 1 March, the mobility procedure has been activated which, if nothing changes the process, will lead to the loss of work for 78 workers. These are workers with high professionalism, mostly engineers, some with masters, who deal with networking and mass memories. If Pavia's website closes, this valuable know-how will be lost. Some will perhaps leave Italy and that would be a serious loss for our country. Italy, projected in digitalization, and Lombardy, the engine of innovation in Italy and Europe, cannot see a state-of-the-art reality disperse, in addition to decisions taken overseas, that do not take account of the impact in our country system and obeying logic to us completely unknown. I therefore call on the Government (in particular the Ministry of Economic Development) to evaluate all possible actions in order to avoid a depletion of knowledge that, just now that Italy is engaged in keeping connected to the innovation of Industry 4.0 and in the development of the National Plan of the ultra-wide band, must be absolutely avoided. All possible instruments must therefore be put in place to prevent the dispersion of this core of workers and high professionalism.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u71	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I read the chapter 'Impromised Parents', page 95 of the book 'Sevent of State' - children entrusted, sexual abuse, powerful friends: the Forteto case by Francesco Pini and Duccio Tronci: "Before taking the child seems to me to have had a meeting only with the social worker Rovai and the head of social services Egyptian Badiani of Prato," recalls Valeria, who grew up at the Forteto but now leaves the community. "There was only one meeting, all of us entrusted in the presence of Goffredi and Rodolfo Fiesoli," continues Valeria: the little one who was entrusted to her had in fact three other brothers and each was assigned to a different couple of the Forteto. Matthew is the associate of another of the brothers and reports the same version on the assistants: "They spoke to us (...) we told him: 'We are the couples' the first time. We met and then we left with Goffredi." How could there have been no contact with social services before that meeting? Where did the trusts come from? Who knew about the arrival at the Forteto of the Four Brothers? "Fiesoli and Goffredi," replied in court Marcello, another of the confidants. "We were told that the social worker would be coming soon to propose these four children to us." The recent case of the four little brothers followed by the social services of Prato does not deviate from a established practice in the decades of life of the Mugello community. "I remember only having an interview with Judge Scarcella," Elsa, another foster mother, testified in court. No one realized that Elsa was suffering from depression and not long before she had attempted suicide. Nevertheless, he had not one, but two children assigned. The male had severe neuropsychiatric problems, it was a sort of "wolf child." Mr President, we 'habit' on these pages and since the Commission does not yet intend to bring the measure to the House for the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry on the subject, I, as promised, will speak every day, even more than once, so that you will stop obscuring the story of the Forteto. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, I would ask you to attach the remaining part of the text I have read to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u72	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Senator Bottici, the current Presidency shares your intention, which you can therefore urge, with the hope of obtaining satisfaction.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u75	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the news of Chinese textile factories "reconverted" to marijuana, reported by Corriere Veneto, is of the last few hours. In Riese Pio X, in the province of Treviso, the Forces of the Order discovered a shed, where an official textile company was to be located, transformed into a greenhouse for the cultivation of Indian hemp, with plenty of irrigation and lighting day and night. We must be clear: we are not talking about hemp for industrial or textile use. The cultivated variety was genetically selected to maximise psychotropic effects, i.e. as a drug. According to the investigators the product was intended for the markets of Northern Europe (Great Britain, Holland and Germany in particular) and traveled taking advantage of the textile routes made in China: marijuana was in fact packed vacuum and hidden inside the packaging of clothes, shirts and other clothing. This is not an isolated case: four other sheds with the same exact situation were discovered in Piove di Sacco, Bagnoli, Codevigo and Agna, all in the province of Padua. But if we look at the axis between Tuscany and Veneto, passing through Emilia-Romagna, there are now about ten cases at national level, in 2017 alone. The result is a real system spread and connected to the Chinese commercial network. But why am I talking about the axis between Tuscany and Veneto? Because it would appear that the operation started with a Chinese entrepreneur resident in Tuscany and that the activities had been transferred to Veneto. Well, already in my question last year I pointed out the probable migration of Chinese illegal activities from Prato to Veneto, with particular reference to the Provinces of Padua and Rovigo and that this migration served to escape the controls, which in Prato become more stringent, was evident. Finally, it seems that the controls have been taken for the abnormal consumption of electricity and that is what I always indicated in that question: the unjustified consumption of electricity, especially at night, could and should have been an important warning indicator of the presence of illegal activities. Mr President, the question was published on 28 April 2016: it has been almost a year and it is unfortunate to see that a Ministry is not able to act promptly on such serious facts. I hope that you will now have the answers: honest craftsmen and traders await you. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u78	SILVESTRO (PD). Mr President, the subject I intend to address in my speech concerns for the second time the emergency health service 118 in the Emilia-Romagna region. It is a few days ago the news that the order of doctors of the Province of Bologna has imposed the sanction of suspension from the professional exercise for a period of six months to the health director of the company USL of Bologna. It is a heavy sanction, which is added to those already provided by other orders of doctors of the Provinces of Emilia-Romagna and always from the order of doctors of Bologna to the director of the emergency department and urgency of the USL company of Bologna itself. This saga therefore has no end, which becomes easy to address as a obscurantist and out of time, which pursues logics and objectives now clearly far from those declared, which destabilizes a system absolutely relevant to the citizens of Bologna and the whole Emilia-Romagna, such as that of emergency and emergency health care, which mortifies the skills of doctors and nurses and their diutary professional commitment, which stands out from any scientific, professional and organizational assembly. The suspension of the health director would result in not having blocked an aleatory incitement to the abuse of the medical profession, which would result in the fact that some well-defined and punctual so-called lifesaving care actions can be carried out by nurses, in this case operating for years on ambulances of 118 Emilia-Romagna, with excellent results and objectively verifiable. These are specific and punctual actions, which are an integral part of their valuable and appreciated care function, which derive from certified skills, which are included in protocols and procedures related to widespread good practices, guidelines and scientific evidence already in use at international level, as well as in other regions of our country. These are specific and punctual actions, formally validated by the Medical Director of the Operations Unit in which those doctors and nurses serve. It is even more striking that this latter sanction takes place after a law recently passed by this Parliament on the subject of patient protection and occupational health responsibility expressly indicates as a fundamental element of the professional behavior of practitioners in the health professions by referring to guidelines, protocols and good professional practices recognised as such by the reference scientific community. The fact, moreover, is particularly serious also because an auxiliary body of the State, what is an order or a professional college, continues not to move in a logic of loyal collaboration between institutions - in this case order and Region - but proceeds in an arbitrary way, with sanctioning procedures that refer to self-defined confidential competences and hypothetical diagnostic and performance shifting. The weapon used by the Order of Doctors of the province of Bologna, which is used with brute logic to impose its unilateral and self-referential vision of responses to the needs of citizens and to the decontextualized expectations of a non-relevant part of health professionals, highlights an absolutely improper use of professional ethics, also very far from the dictates of the same code of medical ethics. An improper and exaggerated weapon, as has been said in several parts, that produces an image damage to all health orders and colleges that as auxiliary bodies of the State cannot overorder to it. Critical thinking, the dialectic also lit up of orders and colleges with its vigilant Ministry, however useful, is a sign of democracy and cannot produce such a rough dichotomy among such institutions of the State. So, in order to put an end to this paradoxical situation, the Ministry of Health and the governing body of the National Federation of Medical Orders will intervene. Their deafening silence strikes all those who still believe in the loyal collaboration between the different powers operating in and for the State. It is not only desirable but also necessary that action be taken and that we should not wait for more to happen even before those with the power take a position. These are events that profoundly alter relations, even between the different occupational health components, which citizens and our health system do not need at all.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u79	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-784.ana.u80	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 15 March, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 3.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.29 a.m.
