ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. Question 3-03315 on the rules on checks and penalties for wine products will be dealt with first. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as is well known, already by Decree-Law No 91 of 24 June 2014, converted into Law No 116 of 11 August 2014, the dematerialization of wine product registers has been envisaged, a measure that will allow our country to be the first in the world to have real-time control of production. The aim of the rule is to simplify the keeping of registers and controls on them and we are fully aware that this is an innovation that needs an accompanying phase. Precisely for this reason, there has been a year of experimentation that has allowed us to better focus on implementation issues and provide some solutions. In particular, it is foreseen that small farms do not necessarily have to have a dedicated application program that dialogues in web service mode, being able to fill in the register directly online, through the dedicated service of the SIAN made available free of charge, after acquiring personal credentials. In addition, in order to facilitate the full understanding by operators in the sector of the new methods of keeping records, already after the adoption of the aforementioned decrees, the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy (MIPAAF) has participated in numerous training and dissemination activities organised by the relevant agencies and associations, as well as a dedicated service of assistance of the electronic register, activated directly by the user and accessible through a specific Internet portal. In addition, I would point out that, as regards the represented demand of wine growers for a further year of extension, there are currently no requests from MIPAAF for this sector. Therefore, with a dedicated circular, the obligation to keep wine registers exclusively from 1 January 2017 has been confirmed to all professional organisations in the sector and to all control bodies. Finally, I would like to point out that, with regard to the sanctioning system, the single wine text provides for milder sanctions in the case of non-essential indications for the identification of the parties concerned, the quality and quantity of the product, and in the case of irregular products less than certain quantities. Moreover, the institute of active repentance is provided, which allows the regularization of errors or omissions within a year from the moment in which these conducts have been realized and the instrument of the warning. Where, therefore, for the first time, the existence of sanitable infringements (mistakes and formal omissions of non-consistent seriousness) is established, the supervisory body shall advise the person concerned to comply with the requirements violated within 20 days of the date of receipt of the act of warning. It is also envisaged to reduce the amount of the penalty by 30%, where payment is made within five days of the dispute or notification. A further instrument to accompany wine operators during the entry into force of the provisions of the aforementioned Ministerial Decrees was introduced by Ministerial Decree No 1486 of 21 December 2016. With this decree it was in fact allowed to operators, without prejudice to the obligation to keep the electronic register from 1 January 2017, that, during the period from 1 January to 30 April 2017, transactions that, in the aforementioned register, in the control, were not recorded in compliance with the provisions in force can be justified on a documentary basis. Therefore, lack of or incorrect registration in the electronic register that is verified during the checks will not be taken into account for the purpose of the possible application of administrative sanctions, provided that the controlled operator has accredited himself to the SIAN and has carried out the procedure of activation of the electronic register, and is able to justify products stored in establishments or warehouses through official documentation. I conclude by pointing out that the applicability of the communication procedures laid down in Ministerial Decree No 794 of 14 June 2012 and the individual control plans has also been extended for the purposes of the control and certification of PDO and PGI wines.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u7	PHASE (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Deputy Minister, for his reply fully meets my request, which, moreover, preceded the single text. The rules governing the cultivation of vines and the production and trade of wine already contain in itself the answers you have just given. Of course, I felt it was necessary to represent the needs and concerns of farmers, especially small farmers. I'm satisfied with your answer. You reassure us that, precisely, there will be an accompanying operation in the delicate and important process of digitization that is so frightening. Therefore, the problem is that of training in itinerant, of assistance and training of entrepreneurs, who find it obvious difficulties in digitalization and incur significant expenses. In addition, the answer to administrative sanctions is also satisfactory. Our task is, in fact, to interpret all the complexity of the innovation process, which is certainly interpreted and collected by the single text, which represents a great change. Sometimes changes scare and worry. The important thing is that there is synergy and mutual support between the public and the private, in order to find a dialogue approach.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u8	The following is the question 3-03337 on measures to combat the spread of the annoying xylella bacterium among olive trees. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u9	Mr President, in offering the elements of response to the inspection union in question, I believe it is necessary, in the preamble, to reiterate that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry policies is implementing everything possible in order to protect the national nursery sector and the operators affected, directly or indirectly, by the plant health emergency represented by the annoying xylella. With regard specifically to the problem concerning the ban on the export to Morocco of vine beards originating in Italy - determined by the discovery of annoying xylella in Puglia - I note that MIPAAF has undertaken a significant technical comparison with the phytosanitary authorities of Morocco in order to overcome any criticality relating to the interdittive measures cited by the questioner. He has done so by sending on several occasions technical data, normative references and information of scientific importance relative to the presence of annoying xylella in Italy, so that there are conditions to revise the restrictive measures that are causing considerable economic damage to the Italian nursery workers. In particular, these include the map of the demarked area as well as the result of the pathogenicity test, which showed that the strain of the bacteria responsible for the complex of the rapid desiccation of the olive tree (Codiro) found in Italy does not attack the vine plants. Equally important, in this line of action, is the decree of the Minister n. 735 of 18 February 2016 that has certified Italy as an area free from xylella, with the exception of the provinces of Puglia concerned. In addition, in April 2016, in the margins of the XI session of the Commission on phytosanitary measures at FAO, a meeting was held between the contacts of the Italian National Plant Health Service and those of the Moroccan Plant Health Service. During this meeting, all aspects concerning the presence of the bacterium in Italy and the measures taken by the national plant protection service to prevent its spread outside the demarked area were presented. In September 2016, on Italian insistence, the competent Moroccan authorities made themselves available to organise a visit to some Italian nursery companies in order to verify the production systems, traceability and certification of material for the propagation of vines and fruit plants. This visit took place from 7 to 11 November 2016 at the Emilia-Romagna, Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia Regions. During the day a group of Apulian nurseryrs had the opportunity to represent the interests of the nursery sector of Otranto, presenting scientific documentation to support the absence of annoying xylella from the material of propagation of the vine. Finally, during the closing meeting of this mission, which took place on 11 November 2016 at the Ministry, the heads of the two plant protection services agreed to sign a Memorandum of Understanding aimed at promoting cooperation in the field of plant protection between the two countries and the exchange of information and technical experience. Following the signature of that Protocol, the phytosanitary authorities of Morocco will allow imports of certified propagating material of fruit and vine coming from areas free of annoying xylella, as defined by the Ministerial Decree of 18 February 2016. At a later stage, a comparison between the two plant protection services will be launched to verify the possible measures to mitigate the plant health risk in order to remove the ban also for the nursery material coming from the demarked area of the Apulia Region. I confirm therefore the full attention of the Ministry in order to protect a damaged productive sector, directly or indirectly, from the plant protection emergency represented by annoying xylella.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u12	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Mr President, I will use the time I have in reply to say at once that I am not satisfied at all. The Vice-Minister's answer seems to be a reading of the premises of my question, which does not specify what actions are being taken to avoid a measure of commercial disloyalty involving an area that has been declared by a ministerial decree infected with xylella and does not stress that scientific arguments exclude that the annoying xylella can establish the wine sector. Moreover, we are talking about an area that continues to receive acts of commercial disloyalty even on the institutional occasions that you have recalled, knowing well that measures have been imposed on that territory on the production that make it overcontrolled and thermotreated, so that no one else in Italy can show the quality and authenticity from a plant health point of view of the products of Salento. I think there's a great lack on the part of the Ministry. Otranto nursery workers must not claim to Morocco or to Morocco's phytosanitary service the quality of their productions and scientific studies which attest to their non-pollution by xylella. The Ministry and the National Health Service must defend this data with all possible evidence in institutional relations. There is a territory that is suffering and we do not even take promotion measures that can highlight the quality of the products. I believe that it is giving very little consideration, despite the many promises that have been made on the occasion of visits and inspections. I ask, therefore, that the Ministry change step, because it goes to the dignity not only of an entire territory, but of the wine history that that territory has made possible throughout the national territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u13	The following is the question 3-03382 on initiatives in favour of agricultural and zootechnical enterprises affected by bad weather in Central and South. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the recent earthquake shocks, in combination with the last week's snowfalls, have further aggravated the already precarious situation of many farms and zootechnics damaged by the previous wave of bad weather in Central and South Italy. Just to give more concrete answers to the damaged companies, Minister Maurizio Martina met in Brussels this week - on 23 January - Commissioner Hogan for an operational comparison on earthquakes and bad weather. On the first front, aid will be increased for our farmers and farmers affected by the earthquake. Fully flexible and accelerated use of the instruments of the European agricultural policy will allow to deliver EUR 118 million immediately, giving a response to the need for immediate liquidity for the farms affected by the emergency. It was also agreed with Commissioner Hogan that the Commission should define extraordinary and specific aid for the agricultural sector in the territory affected by European resources from the European Solidarity Fund against Disasters. We are also working to respond to companies damaged by the exceptional atmospheric adversity of recent weeks, particularly in the Mezzogiorno and the islands. Considering that the facilitated insurance instrument in the territories affected by the adversities reported by the interrogators is poorly used by the agricultural companies, I inform you that we are considering the introduction of an ad hoc regulatory derogation aimed at allowing access to the compensatory interventions of the National Solidarity Fund also for companies that have not secured themselves. Minister Martina has, however, confirmed the widest willingness to activate the instruments provided for in these cases, including the National Solidarity Fund, as soon as the Regions have completed the estimate of the damage suffered that is currently taking place on the territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u17	MUNATO (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, first of all, it is my intention to extend a warm embrace to those who have lost family and friends in recent weeks and to all those who are working tirelessly to provide support and help to the affected populations. In this sense, my personal thanks go, among others, to the fire department and civil protection personnel for the commendable contribution they are making in the management phase of what has happened. It is - in my opinion - at times like these that all of us, as representatives of the institutions, have a duty to avoid unnecessary political exploitation and to make joint efforts to respond in a concrete way to the emergency that has arisen. Along with this - and perhaps even more so - it is our task here and in all those responsible to light a beacon on delays and deficiencies, not - I repeat - to fuel controversy, but to experience and prevent such situations from happening again in the future. Seismic events are unpredictable - we all know that - but the same cannot be said of climatic conditions, however sudden and adverse. Was it really so unlikely to be in this situation, even just considering the simple geographical location of some of the areas previously affected by the earthquake? An emergency emergency, said and repeated. Of course, but what has happened cannot and must not in any case avoid the way of serious and constructive reflection on what has not worked: from monitoring the situation to the speed of response and management of interventions. I, like all of you, have received countless reports and requests for help in recent weeks. Greenhouses, warehouses, rural houses, various structures already damaged by the seismic events of last year and the most recent ones are collapsed or ruined due to the weight of snow. The damages for all types of crops in Calabria, Basilicata, Sicily, Campania, Abruzzo, Molise and Puglia are not quantifiable. Zootechnics are in a no less serious state, with damage to the stables and the impossibility for many companies to continue with the carrying out of the regular activities because isolated. Unfortunately, bureaucratic problems and delays are often added to the territories concerned by the obvious and persistent conditions of distress. Continuing this step, as reported by Confagricoltura, many livestock farms will receive the promised structures in spring. Illustrious colleagues, my personal feeling - I am sure that I share this feeling with many of those who listen to me - is that we are witnessing exemplary responses in terms of help and solidarity to which our country and our great people have accustomed us and for which we are well known. At the same time, there is the risk, that all of us run, of seeming unaware spectators of a real drama. It is up to all political forces not to be found unprepared in circumstances such as those we are experiencing. I do not reproach the Government for what has been done so far - a reproach would go against the very spirit of my intervention - but an exhortation to the entire political system, an invitation to do better and to take action to ensure concrete and effective measures to prevent risks in all areas, with the consequent ability to provide immediate responses to emergencies. In this sense, we do! With Flavio Tosi we welcomed the words spoken yesterday in this House by the President of the Council, Mr Gentiloni, who expressed the need and the will to assign greater powers to the Head of Civil Protection, in order to strengthen its autonomy and authority in the chain of command at times of emergency. In this respect it is difficult to understand - for example - why the intervention of special snow-ploughs, such as snow sweeps and turbines, was requested only after the arrival of the snowfall. All the meteologists had planned an extraordinary event in Centro-Italy. In an expected weather emergency, it would be advisable to move men and vehicles within 48 hours prior to the expected bad weather wave and not within 24 hours thereafter. As I mentioned, many farmers, artisans and businesses have suffered damage to their activities. A few days ago I had the opportunity to telephone one of them, whose shed collapsed due to the weight of the snow. I do not hide from this House my difficulty in finding the words to be of comfort to him and to make him feel, as representative of the institutions, my personal closeness. What words - I asked myself and asked you - to give back to that entrepreneur - and with him to all the people involved - the desire to look forward with confidence? How and with what answer could I lighten their mood? "I feel broken": he told me at the end of our conversation. I should like to conclude by saying that it is to that sentence, that I feel broken that we all have the moral obligation, even politically, to give an answer, guaranteeing the active closeness of the institutions to the populations affected and putting in place all the necessary energies, even from the regulatory point of view, to prevent the repetition of such disasters. [[Applause from Senator Cuomo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u18	The following is the question 3-00480 on the return of sums advanced by the Municipalities for the management of judicial offices. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u19	Mr President, by means of the trade union act under discussion, the Senator emphasizes - in the regulatory context prior to the transfer to the Ministry of Justice of the operating expenses of the judicial offices - the requirements of the Municipalities in relation to the liquidation of contributions relating to previous years, due as a result of Law No 392 of 1941. In order to resolve the critical issues identified, in the same perspective outlined by the interrogators, Law No. 190 of 23 December 2014 (the Stability Act for 2015) has - as is known - radically innovated the discipline of expenditure functions related to the management of judicial offices, offering the opportunity - once faced with the emergency - to build a new model of greater efficiency, equity and economic savings. In the new structure, the Ministry of Justice has taken on, until the immediacy, a series of preparatory initiatives, with the aim of facilitating the inevitable transfer of functions, planned and actually entered into force from 1 September 2015, adopting new organizational measures aimed at ensuring the continuity of services and judicial activity. With a view to collecting, through the method of comparison, the contributions of the actors involved in the implementation of the new management model, a technical table was set up at the Office of Cabinet, open to the administrations concerned, for the consistent definition of the policy guidelines of the central administrations and for the monitoring of the activities necessary for the relative and consistent implementation. The outcome of the work was adopted the regulation on organisational measures at the central and peripheral level, published in the Official Journal of 29 August 2015, which assumes the particular function - in the general framework delivered by the law of stability 2015 and the new regulation of organization of the entire ministerial apparatus - of preparing the necessary measures to identify the functionally competent subjects for the definition of the decision-making process of expenditure, to outline its tasks and to define its relations with the central administration. A fruitful intercourse with the institutional bodies involved has also been launched and consolidated, in particular with the ANCI, through which the joint adoption of a framework convention has been achieved, experimenting with the feasibility of forms of collaboration between central and peripheral administrations in terms of assistance and support. To this must be added how, with a view to ensuring the continuity of the services previously carried out by the staff of the Municipalities already seconded, commanded or otherwise specifically assigned to the judicial offices, the possibility of continuing to use the same staff on the basis of agreements or conventions has been provided for. Finally, it should be stressed that the Ministry of Justice is also actively engaged in the promotion of the training activities of those involved in the spending process, in line with the initiatives taken by the higher school of the judiciary. It is precisely thanks to the support of the municipalities and the synergies developed at local level that the transition took place without highlighting particular services, despite the inevitable difficulties that change has brought. In the transition to the new management model, therefore, the definition of the contributions still due to the municipalities by virtue of the previous direct management of expenditure is included. In this regard, I would point out that the very prospect of a correct start to the new system of operating expenses of the judicial offices has guided the Ministry's commitment to settle definitively as soon as possible the previous positions with the municipalities in the legislative framework of reference and with the financial limits dictated by the regulatory provisions that have regulated the quantification and the liquidation of refunds. According to Article 1 of the Decree of the President of the Republic No 187 of 1998, in fact, the determination of the contribution to be made to the municipalities was to be assumed annually by decree of the Minister of Justice, adopted in agreement with the Minister of the Economy of Finance and the Minister of the Interior, on the basis of the conclusions of the expenses actually incurred. With the aim of aligning economic and financial policy choices with the general objectives of containing public expenditure set also within the Community, Decree-Law No 95 of 2012 provided for savings for the Ministry of Justice not less than 30 million euros for the year 2012 and 70 million euros from the year 2013 in terms of lower contributions to the Municipalities for the operating expenses of the judicial offices. In the proposed regulatory framework, the timing and extent of the contributions payable were essentially conditioned by the savings measures provided for in the aforementioned decree-law. In addition to having to wait until the expenses were indicated to consult on the municipal budgets and subjected to the scrutiny of the maintenance commissions, the liquidation had to be subsequently arranged by interministerial decree and according to strict percentages of reimbursement. This is used to illustrate the general picture. Now I come specifically to outline how, with reference to the credits accrued by the Municipalities for the year 2012, from the information assumed at the Ministry of Economy and Finance and the general direction of the material resources and the technologies, realizes that with interministerial decree of 4 December 2015 has been made available a sum pairs to approximately 77 million euros to be charged to the financial year 2013. The same interministerial decree determined in 25.88 percent of the expenses actually incurred by the municipalities the measure of the refund liquidable. For the same year had already been paid, by decree of the competent director-general of this Dicastery of 5 March 2014, a deposit of approximately 65 million and, by decree of the director-general of this Dicastery of 7 December 2015, has therefore been paid the balance and for some municipalities has been made the reduction of the amounts found in excess of the contribution actually determined, paid in advance for the previous year. This is true of the year 2012. In relation to the loans accrued by the Municipalities, instead, for the year 2013, the interministerial decree of 1 June 2016 made available a sum of approximately 108 million euros to be charged to the financial year 2014 and determined in 35,95 percent of the expenses actually incurred by the Municipalities the measure of the refund liquidable. For the same year had already been paid, by decree of the competent director general of this Dicastery of 22 May 2015, a deposit of about 58 million. By decree of the Director-General of this Dicastery of 16 June 2016, the balance was paid, subject to a reduction, for some Municipalities, of the amounts resulting in excess of the contribution actually determined, paid in advance for the previous year. As for the expenses incurred in 2014, in order to meet the difficulties represented by the Municipalities, the competent Directorate-General has ordered, by decree on 12 February 2016, the payment of a deposit of approximately 44 million, determined according to the parameters relative to the contribution definitively cleared for the year 2013. The interministerial decree of 4 October 2016 has made available, for the year 2014, a sum of approximately 132 million to be charged to the financial year of 2015, after deduction of the sum of approximately 12 million for the return of the balances relative to the financial statements of the previous years, and has determined in 44,53 percent of the expenses actually incurred by the Municipalities the measure of the refund liquidable. By decree of the Director-General of this Dicastery of 1 December 2016, the balance was also paid for 2014. Finally, in order to determine the contributions due for 2015 until 31 August, the competent ministerial structure is proceeding with the examination of the accounts of the municipalities. Since 1 September 2015, in the light of the provisions of the Stability Act for 2015, for the payment of the fees, as well as for the other expenses of the judicial offices, the appeals courts have been delegated and, within the framework of the permanent conferences established in the individual districts with the above mentioned regulation of 18 August 2015, the necessary requirements for the operation of these offices are identified. In the light of the data presented - and I would like to stress this in thanking the Senator for having put to the attention of this Ministry an issue that is on the agenda of the Government, and therefore of the Ministry itself, because we understand the importance of the funds that must be returned to the local authorities, which are essential because they must be re-established in the community and in the society of those Municipalities - it is intended to reassure the Senator that all the initiatives will be put in place that can satisfy, to the most appropriate extent, the expectations of the Municipal headquarters of the judicial offices for the final completion of the previous phase of management of operating expenses. In this perspective, it is worth noting that the law of 11 December 2016, n. 232, the so-called law of stability 2017, article 1, paragraph 438, has previewed in the forecast state of expenditure of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the establishment of a fund to be shared for the financing of interventions in favor of the territorial authorities. With the successive decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, a share of the fund, equal to 300 million euros, will be destined to repay the debit positions matured towards the Municipalities in relation to the previous management of operating expenses. This confirms the political and legislative will of the Government, even in the last budget law, to give resources to the Municipalities for their own operating expenses. I thank and apologize if I have extended myself, but we wanted to reconstruct the various passages, with the various years and how much had been paid.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u22	CUOMO (PD). Mr Secretary, I should like to start by mentioning the number of the question you have answered, but above all the date of submission, since neither the President nor you have done so. This is an urgent question, No 480, published on November 18, 2013: the Letta Government has been questioned and the Gentiloni Government answers. So, in the meantime, I would like to thank you for the promptness and in the shorthand report I would also add the suspense points to make clear the irony of my thanks. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But the legislature lasted long enough to ensure an answer! CUOMO (PD). I dare not imagine if I had to ask a question today: the son of the Undersecretary Ferri would answer me, if these are the times. It is a wish - since I know the beautiful children of the Undersecretary - that a question that I should present now will be answered by the Undersecretary's son in the future, given the times of the Ministry. We were a little lost in the question, Mr President, in the sense that the act referred to 2012, and it was a political and accounting question. I complained, in 2013, that the state budget did not include the funds in order to be able to reimburse the municipalities for the early expenses for the operation of justice. I must address a not ironic but real thank you to the Undersecretary Ferri, who pointedly, together with some officials of the Ministry, has reconstructed in a meticulous way the story and, basically, we are faced with a debt that the Ministry of Justice and therefore the State have towards the Municipalities, of about 300 million euros. This is evident from the Government's answer to the question: in 2017 we still have a debt of 300 million euros, which dates back to 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016. These are the facts. The fund that was set up in the last budget law, unfortunately, dear Undersecretary, I do not think it is just to repay the debts for the expenses of justice because, if that were the case, it would already be a great result. On the other hand, I am concerned that this fund may also be drawn from other requirements that fall within the relationship between the State and the local authorities, in particular local authorities. However, what puzzles me most is that with the decrees that you mentioned, for which you have no responsibility, neither political nor government, because I believe that it deals with all other events within the delegation that has been assigned to you from time to time, in the three successive Governments, we intervene in 2015 (on 4 December) assigning 77 million euros, when in 2012 it needed 300; then, on 1 June 2016 we intervene with 108 million, therefore for a third, maybe without welding what was needed in 2012: in short, a sloppy accounting by the State, which does not reimburse the municipalities balance for balance. I have been a mayor for a number of years and I must say that if I had come to a council meeting to answer a question after three years I would have had some difficulty with the city councilors, not with the opposition but with the majority. What does not convince me, beyond his personal courtesy and sensitivity of Government, is the way in which the Ministry deals with these economic events when they concern others (but strangely never when they concern themselves). It seems to me very strange to imagine an institutional and government relationship, with a territorial body that anticipates a number of funds and if it sees them returned after five years, if all goes well. Moreover, in his reply to the question, the official who wrote the note and provided the data, at some point, questioned some funds and asked for their return to the municipalities on the basis of the reports made. But, for example, in 2017 the 2016 report is approved, because the statement is nothing more than a summary of the expenditure and revenue actually incurred. Even this mode, if you will allow me, Undersecretary, knowing its sensitivity, would deserve a correction of course, which must be done at the political level and not on the technical-accountable one: you cannot modify the judicial geography by subtracting garrisons of justice to the territories and imagining that the municipalities were willing to take responsibility to maintain those garrisons... [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I agree with the answer, which has been quite articulate and long, so it will allow me a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u23	We'll give you another minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u24	CUOMO (PD). Since it is a fairly serious problem and I am sure of the sensitivity of the Undersecretary Ferri and of his ability to cross the three Governments that have succeeded since the question, I repeat that there is need for a new system, which cannot be that of the shelf after four years, but that of the investigation. I hope that the court of appeal will be quicker than the mode of variation in the refund procedure, but certainly the mode cannot be that of the shelf of the current year. I would suggest to you, for a personal relationship with you that I mean very solid because I know what is your value as a government and knowledge of the issues we are dealing with, that it would be more useful and correct to give a political direction for which one year is due, then it would be worth another and so on. We cannot agree on the annuality, leaving the balance of all the annuality we are discussing unsolved. Thank you for the way you are doing it and, above all, I hope that I can thank you for the changes that should take place in the system which, as it is, certainly does not work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u25	Following is the question 3-02890 on the increase of the organic endowment of the court of Reggio Emilia. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u26	Mr President, by means of the act of inspection union under discussion, Senator Mussini points out the criticalities of the court of Reggio Emilia in the celebration of the Aemilia trial, resulting from the inadequate provision of administrative staff. It therefore asks what initiatives the Ministry intends to take to overcome the highlighted shortcomings. As you know, the profound renewal of the policies of the staff of the administration of the justice has been a fundamental objective of the action of Government, in the awareness of the importance that it assumes the contribution of adequate human resources for the operation of the judicial offices and for the support to the innovations, organizational and technological, necessary for the modernization of the services. Even today, which opened the judicial year at the Court of Cassation, the Government's efforts to deal with administrative staff matters have been recognised, which certainly represents a very serious issue and is seeing a change and a response to the judicial offices. The reformer commitment was in particular directed to face the progressive and constant reduction of the staff of the administrative staff, deriving from policies of containment of the public expenditure, through measures aimed at the valorization and incentive of the staff in service and interventions aimed at ensuring the contribution of new professionalism through procedures of intra-participant and extra-participant mobility, in addition to the extraordinary recruitment of new resources, in derogation from the constraints of public finance and the blocking of the turnover. The procedures of mobility, compartmental and extra-compartmental, have allowed the recruitment, to date, of 596 human resources and, in the state, is being asked the administrations that have not given consent to the transfer. In 2016, 169 units were recruited through the recruitment procedures referred to in Article 4 of Decree-Law No. 78 of 19 June 2015, and the flow of the rankings of the Institute for Foreign Trade (ICE) and the Ministry of the Interior. In addition to voluntary mobility procedures, the first phase of mandatory mobility, managed through the public service portal, was completed in 2016 for the acquisition of a first quota of 343 staff from the Large Area and the Red Cross, according to the forecast of the Stability Act for 2015. In the state, the second phase of the planned process of relocation of supernumerary staff is underway, which will end by next February. Since the beginning of the government's mandate, all of these initiatives have led to the recruitment of as many as 1,354 units. But the greatest novelty was certainly the start of the recruitment program, in implementation of the forecasts of decree-law 30 June 2016, no. 117, converted with amendments by Law No. 161 of 12 August 2016, thanks to which the Ministry can proceed to the assumption of a quota of 1,000 units of administrative personnel not managerial by sliding other rankings in course of validity or for public competition. Thus, on 22 December 2016, the public competition for the recruitment of 800 judicial assistants was launched, for which our Ministry received 308,468 requests for participation. In addition, with the calls published in 2016, requalification procedures were also launched, allowing the passage of area, with consequent professional progression, for which 6.465 applications were submitted. The possibility of recruitment was then further expanded by a further 1,000 units with the Stability Act for 2017, for a total of 2,000 new resources. The perspective that the measures indicated contribute to outline will certainly allow to devote additional resources also to the judicial offices of Emilia and, in particular, to the court of Reggio Emilia. In the state, it appears that at the office 55 units of administrative personnel, one of which is commanded and another detached, in front of an organic plant constituted - according to the ministerial decree of 25 April 2013 - from 68 human resources. The cover index is therefore 19.12 per cent lower, albeit slightly lower, than the national average, which is 21.26 per cent. This certainly must not reassure us, but rather it is an incentive, in the light of the competitions and new recruits, that will have to induce the Ministry to cover as soon as possible the staff also of the court of Reggio Emilia. The calculation of those present records the structure resulting from the first phase of mobility started and is intended to benefit from the measures in place. In the context of the 2015 voluntary mobility procedure, two posts of judicial officer were made available as a result of waivers. Within the framework thus outlined and not yet defined, in order to face current and specific criticalities of the court of Reggio Emilia, it is possible to resort to transitional measures, such as temporary applications in the district and commands from other administrations (among other things, in the same question Senator Mussini indicates some solutions), but when we talk about commands in the district we always refer to those within the state sector and not the local authorities. The first institute, governed by Article 14 of the Agreement on the Internal Mobility of Personnel concluded between the Administration and Trade Union Organizations on 27 March 2007, is founded on the need to compensate for the lack of staff both in the case of cover and prolonged absence of staff and is adopted by the District Top Bodies - President of the Court of Appeal and Prosecutor General - each for the offices of competence, in relation to the actual needs of the offices under orders. It is, in the state, the fastest way to redistribute existing human resources. Through the command, on the other hand, it is possible to temporarily cover the vacant posts with the staff who present request from other public administrations of the section Ministries, in accordance with the current contractual provisions. With regard to these initiatives, the Senator asked for information. The competent articulation reported that it had requested, for the benefit of the summit positions that show greater coverage indices, the provision of command of two employees, but the relative activation was possible, in the corresponding position of official, only for a unit coming from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which took possession on 1 July 2016, however, after the date of the question, that turns out to be of 25 February 2016. So, there was a first answer, and that's it. Another employee of the Ministry of Transport who in March 2016 had taken possession, in command position, at the court of Reggio Emilia has, instead, filed application for revocation, serving only until 31 May 2016. Therefore, the interested party has not renewed its availability. With reference to any requests for command made by the staff of local authorities, the competent body has shown that it is not possible to activate these procedures as they are resources allocated to administrations not belonging to the department, with consequent necessity to harmonize the current provisions with the budgetary constraints imposed by law and to resolve the accounting issues deriving from the relations between state and local finance. With a view to providing adequate support to the Emilian offices, pending the definition of the current mobility procedures, on 10 November - this is a novelty that can resolve in the immediacy the topic of the cover of the court of Reggio Emilia - the Minister of Justice has signed with the President of the Emilia-Romagna Region, the president of the court of appeal of Bologna and the attorney general of the Republic of Bologna a protocol of understanding, for the temporary assignment of staff of the Emilia-Romagna Region to the judicial offices of the district. The agreement arises, on the one hand, from the consideration of the particular character of the territory of the Region, with strong entrepreneurial and commercial connotation, with obvious repercussions in terms of investments, economic development and competitiveness; on the other hand, from the fact that the efficient conduct of judicial action on the regional territory is indispensable in order to guarantee certainty to the economic and contractual activities and to face phenomena of infiltration of organized crime and corruption. It is, therefore, a virtuous example of institutional cooperation, which testifies to the common commitment to the wider support of the justice service in the Region and, in particular, at Reggio Emilia. The Ministry has, therefore, adopted all the initiatives allowed by the current provisions and aimed at covering the holidays of administrative staff of the tribunal of Reggio Emilia, in line with the action of support constantly assured, with specific reference to the celebration of the Aemilia process, the office proceeding, both in the phase relative to the identification of a suitable venue for the celebration of the preliminary hearing and the debate, and for the supply of the necessary instrumental equipment. Among other things, I recall, for the sake of completeness, that the organic plant proposed by the Minister of Justice, approved by ministerial decree and favourable opinion of the CSM, increases the staff of the court of Reggio Emilia, for the magistrates, by four units. This is the competence of the CSM but, for completeness, looking at the offices published for the young magistrates, I have noted that the CSM itself will assign three new magistrates to the court of the Reggio Emilia.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u29	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President-in-Office, thank you for answering me in times when Mr Cuomo was jealous, but I am not at all satisfied with this answer. You mess up a lot of data and resources: 169 units this way, 343 above, 1,350 above, 1,000 coming along plus 1,000 more. Then there are two cases: either these figures are not true, and I have no reason to think that they are not true, or there are major problems in the distribution of resources. It is true that the discovery of the court of Reggio Emilia is in the average, but we must also consider the typology of the subjects that are missing. If the findings focus mainly on the quality of officials, it is clear that you cannot carry out all judicial activities, which you know much better than I do, with salesmen, ushers or drivers. We cannot, therefore, simply consider a statistic. I would also remind you that the surveillance court in Reggio Emilia had a survey of staff of almost 50%, with a prison that is a "Mr. Prison" in which, until recently, there was also the judicial psychiatric hospital. It seems clear to me that the first problem is a poor distribution of resources, or a lack of consideration of the real quality of the resources that are being distributed. As far as mobility operations are concerned, I simply stress that no one has arrived from the Provinces, so this famous mobility that you have given us the figures for is a mobility that obviously gave zero resources to the tribunal of Reggio Emilia. To the court of Reggio Emilia has actually arrived a subject of the motorization. Of all the proposals we had made, this is the only one: a subject. Bravo, very good, but one in front of a trial like the Aemilia trial. I will come back to the point later, but it is not just a process here; the fact is that the process is a sign: the 146 sent back to trial, to which now others are added with the trunk of the Aemilia- bis inquiry, not simply represent the execution of a process, but the sign of a difficulty and discomfort. You, Mr Undersecretary, know much better than I do, that I am a modest teacher of Latin and Greek, that such a process means an emergency on the legality and control of the territory; you carry along a whole series of measures, including asset prevention measures which, for example, certainly give a number of benefits also to the public, such as the seizures carried out, which go on to tens of millions at a time. We are talking about a volume of crime and also a dimension of harm to this area. From a productive point of view, was this area one of the country's driving wheels or not? And does she or does she not deserve to be helped at a time when resources are needed? Well, these resources are not there. We are talking about mobility and conventions. Thanks to an agreement between President Caruso, at the time president of the court, and the president of the Bonaccini Region (because however an awareness in the Region there was of the importance of this process, with the effort and synergy of a whole series of bodies and I include also the Ministry of Justice), the court of Reggio Emilia had a special courtroom that allows to make the hearings. The hearing is annoying to the defendants, which means that carrying out the hearing there and making the trial with adequate resources is a benefit to a community that questions itself and that only in this way can react to lawlessness. By virtue of that agreement, two resources came from the Region. Now, you talk to me about this very commendable initiative, that is the convention of Minister Orlando with the president of the Emilia-Romagna Region, but I must tell you that of this sixty people in the court of Reggio Emilia will touch one; the court of Modena will touch five: we then have a problem of proper management of the distribution of resources. I would like to see a clear indication of what the criteria are and how these statistics are constructed, because according to statistics: if I eat two chickens a day and Mr Cuomo does not eat at all, it turns out that we are eating one chicken each. But in reality it isn't like that, it doesn't work like that. Moreover, the greatest risk is that, in this way, the Ministry abandons the territories and this is also a little 'the speech that my colleague Cuomo reported. The analysis must be done by really going to see the resources. At the court of Reggio Emilia we are in a condition of serious difficulty, which is not simply related to the complaint, because however the special court was built with funds that were collected. We are talking about a reality that is concerned, first of all, with its own health and legality that must be accompanied, demonstrating the ability to accompany it, otherwise the risk is that these situations of illegality will spread. Therefore, either there is a concrete answer, or I would like to see no more politicians coming to attend the various initiatives on legality, because the first tool to support it is to support the activity of those who carry out investigations and do the trials.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u30	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u31	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-26-LEG17-Senato-sed-750.ana.u32	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 31 January, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.07 p.m.
