ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 2 March. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 11,02 p.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00707 (text 2), tabled by Senator Anitori and other senators, on the geological map of Italy. I call Senator Anitori to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion I am about to make concerns the geological map of Italy and in particular the seismic microzonation. As you know, the geological map of Italy has not been funded since 2004 and covers only 43% of our territory. It is anticipated that the seismic sequence that has upset central Italy has brought again and dramatically to the attention of the public the urgency of the implementation of policies of prevention and mitigation of the geological risks to which the country is subject and that such prevention policies cannot ignore an adequate knowledge of our fragile territory, which the recent seismic events impose in a way no longer procrastinable. It must also be considered the enormous delay accumulated by our country in the production of a modern geological mapping, with an adequate scale (1:50.000), covering the entire national territory, including its territorial waters, which was once again highlighted by the recent Apennine seismic sequence. In fact, it seems amazing how the high quantities and quality of geophysical data produced by the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology (INGV), as well as research bodies and universities, such as the location of earthquakes and the extent of deformation, insisted on an official geological map base on an inadequate scale and dating back to 1941 (for the sheet of Norcia) and 1955 (for the sheet of Eagle), that is, well before the formulation of the theory of the global tectonic plaques (1970s). The coverage of geological mapping at 1:100,000 scale is, in fact, the only one currently available on the entire Italian territory. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u6	Colleagues, Senator Anitori cannot continue her intervention in this way. Please lower the volume of your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u7	ANITORI (AP (Ncd-CpE)). It is a project that began on August 30, 1868, when the regulation for the execution of the decree was promulgated that the geological map, formed and published on the scale 1:50,000 or the one closest to it (1:100,000, the only scale for which the topographical base was available), had to be accompanied by geological profiles and descriptive elements (drawings, tables, texts) that would be worth to make work as complete and useful to the country's industry as possible.The concept reaffirmed by Law No. 1497 of 1939, for which the official geological map of the national territory, including the portion of the seabed on which national sovereignty is exercised, constitutes a basic document for the development of the country through the physical knowledge of the territory for spatial and environmental planning. Since 1971, thanks also to a greater availability of topographical bases on the 1:50.000 scale, it was decided to create the new geological map of Italy with the same scale; at the end of the 1980s, a specific regulatory and financial framework finally allowed its launch. In fact, the project for the realization of geological cartography was included as part of the annual programme of emergency measures to protect the environment (Law No 67 of 1988). In 1989 the project was part of the three-year programme for the protection of the environment and became an organic project that could be achieved on a national scale, with the creation of a relative database with high information content (Law 305 of 1989): the Carg project (geological chart) was born, which provides for the creation of 652 geological sheets on the 1:50.000 scale to cover the entire national territory. The project is coordinated by the ISPRA Geological Service of Italy, as a State cartographic body. To date, for the realization of 255 sheets, pairs to approximately 40% of the entire cartographic coverage, state funding has been allocated for a total of 81,259,000 euros. On average, this is just over EUR 3 million per year. However, these appropriations have not been paid over time: only two large tranches of funding were made, one in 1989 and another ten years later, in 1999. Since 1999, with the exception of a small grant in 2004, no additional resources have been allocated for the continuation of the project, to which more than 60 structures have collaborated, between territorial authorities, CNR bodies, departments and university institutes, as well as all the Regions and autonomous provinces, which have provided, with their financial assistance, additional resources, necessary for the production of geological sheets. State funding for the Carg project has been stationary for almost twenty years (currently fifteen, to be precise). 60 percent of the Italian territory, comprising significant portions of the Apennine dorsal and the entire calabra dorsal, and all territorial waters (areas in which are located the seismic sources of some of the most destructive earthquakes in Italy's history) are not yet covered by a modern geological map with an adequate scale. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You should finish, Senator. ANITORI (AP (Ncd-CpE)). You should allow me more time, Madam President, because I read slowly, because of the background noise. It is a great unfinished work, for which the recent seismic events emphasize in an unavoidable way the need for refinancing and completion. It should also be considered that the drafting of maps of seismic microzonation, at the same time as the basic seismic hazard studies and their classifications of the national territory (as in the orders of the President of the Council of Ministers n. 3274 of 2003 and n. 3519 of 2006), is increasingly indispensable in order to consciously orient the choices of government of the territory from the municipal sphere, both for the areas already built and for those of expansion and development. In fact, the studies of seismic microzonation allow to know the modifications that seismic shaking can involve on the surface due to local geological and geomorphological conditions, returning information useful for the government of the territory, the planning, the emergency and for the post earthquake reconstruction. In spatial planning, depending on the various scales and levels of intervention, seismic microzonation studies are carried out on those areas for which the regulatory framework allows or provides for use for building or infrastructure purposes, their potential transformation for such purposes, or provides for their use for civil protection purposes. Seismic microzonation is, therefore, a cognitive tool with different potentialities, which has different costs depending on the level of deepening that you want to achieve. Many regions, unfortunately, fail to ensure a correct mapping of the territory because they do not have sufficient funds to co-finance the related projects. It would therefore be necessary to keep out of the Stability Pact the funds earmarked for seismic risk prevention, whose programmes are implemented with great difficulty, given the many constraints that must be respected in regional budgetary procedures. The Government is therefore committed, first, to assess the opportunity to allocate, in the first useful measure, the necessary resources both to start the completion of a modern geological mapping, with an appropriate scale, which allows the coverage of the entire national territory, including territorial waters, both for the drafting of maps of seismic microzoning covering the areas with the highest seismic hazard; second, to assess the opportunity to include in the next Document of economy and finance, among the strategic objectives of our country, the completion of the national geological map, providing, for this purpose, a structural allocation, starting from the next budget law; third, to assess the opportunity to exclude from the constraint of the Internal Stability Pact for the Regions all funds and expenditures intended for the prevention of seismic risk and the updating of its cartography, in order to allow a more incisive participation of the Regions in the co-financing of expenditure. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u8	I declare the debate open. She is registered to speak Senator Di Giorgi. You have the right to do so. I would like to make it clear that there are tight deadlines for concluding the debate by one vote, otherwise we will not be able to conclude the debate on the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u9	Madam President, I fully agree with the need to conclude the examination of the motion, partly because I believe that such motions are very significant and have a very important value. I would therefore like to thank Senator Anitori for submitting the motion to us today for our examination. It has been well explained what the geological map of Italy means. It means that we need to have one and in this motion it shows how far we are behind on this side. This was well explained by Senator Anitori. We even have totally uncovered territories. There are no geological studies that can make us understand the state of the territory in a country like Italy, where, evidently, the difficulties are enormous, as the facts have shown in recent times. We therefore need adequate knowledge of our territory, which is so fragile, as is constantly demonstrated by the following seismic events. We need to ensure that our country is endowed with what I call, Madam President, infrastructure: a necessary infrastructure in our country, but it does not yet exist, or perhaps there is only a little bit of leopard, so overall, also geological research in our country has not been supported. I would like to recall, ladies and gentlemen, the measures contained in Law No 1892 approved in this Chamber in conjunction with the House, in support of training and research in geological sciences, which became definitively law in January 2017. It aims to encourage studies in the geological sciences and, therefore, to support the geology departments that often have few professors, given the limited development of recent years in this field. Well, this motion is, therefore, part of a path taken in this Parliament and it also becomes an essential element for the development of our country. The card that we have, as well as the studies and the surveys go back years too far and, therefore, we cannot support - I think it is necessary for the Government - with certain investments the preparation of all the years of cards related to portions of our territory. And that's what the government demands. Consider again that 60 percent of the Italian territory, which includes significant portions of the Apennine dorsal, the entire calabra dorsal and all territorial waters (areas in which are located the seismic sources of some of the most destructive earthquakes in the history of Italy) is not yet covered by a modern geological mapping and with an adequate scale. It is a great unfinished work - as Senator Anitori said well - and we therefore need to move in a coordinated way. Parliament therefore calls on the Government to find certain ways to find the resources. We can also think of an ad hoc law because I think it is necessary. In the meantime, I hope that this motion will meet with the support of the whole House. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Anitori]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u11	Madam President, I welcome the invitation of Senator Di Giorgi to obtain on such issues, that is, on what has been said about the first-signed motion by Senator Anitori, how much more convergence and confluence of interests aimed at the common good. I find the motion tabled interesting and this leads me to make a consideration: the knowledge society is an area in which, with regard to the specific Italian, considerations of excellence, but often also of deficiency, i.e. delays and major shortcomings, converge. All this is part of the national character and of how much we neglect the primary good: nature, the environment and the landscape. And we realize, only under the emotional thrust of the disastrous and calamitous events, that primary elements such as the landscape and the territory become hostile in some cases, or even the enjoyment of an extraordinary heritage that has been delivered to us by nature is missing for the whole population. Well, the knowledge society also includes the need to equip itself, through appropriate means, technologies and funding, with an instrument such as the Carg, that is, the so-called geological mapping. And in this motion it is argued that everything is mainly aimed at preventing seismic risk, and we know that this is certainly an important objective, if not the main one. I would add that it would be necessary to prevent, through the detailed study of the territory and therefore to the greater integration and completion of the geological map, also the hydrogeological risk, that is, everything that causes immense tragedies to the territory and its inhabitants. The hydrogeological risk has been responsible in recent decades for landslides, floods and landslides, causing disasters from the orographic point of view and the loss of human lives. Therefore, by inviting the Government, I would advise the presenter to consider including hydrogeological risk within the motion, agreeing this need with Parliament. In addition to being in favour of the motion, on behalf of the Group of Italian Conservators and Reformists-Direction I would suggest to the Government to look with favor to a cartography of aid to the drafting of safety plans and evacuation in case of natural disaster. The mapping of the territory should be complemented by specific actions of the municipalities to define emergency plans for the safe evacuation of populations, with particular reference to persons with absent, reduced mobility or who need special aids. I am talking about mapping nursing homes, hospitals, nursing homes for the elderly, rehabilitation and long-term care centres. In this way, probably, the motion could be more effective and useful to the whole country, so that the financial resources, which we hope will be allocated, will bring benefits to the whole nation. [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u12	Senator Marinello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u13	Madam President, this motion deals with a very topical issue, which is essential for the security of our country. Last September this House approved the motion for a resolution on the Casa Italia project, in which there were some fundamental points that I would like to mention briefly here, also in the light of the successive developments. The Assembly has committed the Government to quickly define the contents and measures to be included in the Casa Italia project, taking due account of the proposals and ideas collected in the open discussion with the main stakeholders of the Country, starting from a national anti-seismic prevention plan based on three phases: monitoring and diagnostic, adoption of the building file and the compulsory seismic certification, as well as planning of the multiannual needs of public and private resources, to give follow-up and continuity over time to the proposals included in the project. I would like to focus on the National Plan for anti-seismic prevention, which deserves the same attention as all issues related to natural disasters. We know the theme of the fragility of our territory. Consequently, our country urgently needs a plan finally coherent and structured for the prevention and mitigation of geological and hydrogeological risk. It is precisely in this regard that the central theme of the motion at the first signature of Senator Anitori is inserted. How can we prevent it if we do not know the risk factors that give rise to the phenomena that we want to prevent? How can we counter the damage of seismic events upstream, avoiding devastating effects on populations and cities, if we ignore the characteristics of that subsoil through which seismic waves propagate to the surface? In other words, prevention policies cannot be without adequate knowledge of our territory, made even more urgent by the tragedies of recent times. The motion highlights how resources are needed to pursue two goals, the first of which is to produce a modern geological map with an appropriate scale. I remember that the only one currently available is on a 1:100,000 scale, while today we work almost universally with plants on a 1:50,000 scale. Furthermore, in addition to the appropriate scale, mapping should cover the entire national territory. Yet, as is recognized by the first-signed motion of Senator Anitori, who traces the fundamental stages of the evolution of the story, in our country the intentions have always been in line with the above-mentioned interest, but often we have not been consequential. Today - for example - of the 652 geological sheets on a 1:50,000 scale provided by the project coordinated by the Italian Geological Service and the ISPRA, as the state's cartographic body, only 255 were produced. Therefore, 60 percent of the Italian territory (including part of the Apennine dorsal, the entire calabra dorsal and all territorial waters) is not yet covered by a cartography with adequate scale. I remember that these are the areas where the seismic sources of some of the most destructive earthquakes in Italy's history are located. From these brief references we can understand how a modern and detailed geological map would allow that physical knowledge of the fundamental territory to correctly frame the quantity and quality of geophysical data collected in the post earthquake phases (such as, for example, the location of earthquakes and the extent of the deformation of the territory), to create a unified database with high information content and to prepare a national spatial and environmental programming calibrated on the actual geophysical characteristics of our country. It is, in practice, a sort of seismic microzonation that would allow to characterize the territory in a seismic perspective, identifying and delimiting areas with homogeneous behavior and distinguishing between stable zones, stable zones susceptible to local amplification and zones subject to instability, such as landslides, superficial fracturings and liquefactions of the territory. The issue we are discussing today is of fundamental importance. I believe that the Senate will have to express itself as widely as possible on these issues and the commitment of the Government will have to be strong and decisive not only in giving a favourable opinion, but also in identifying the resources necessary to allow our country to equip itself with such an important instrument. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u14	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in Italy, unfortunately, in recent years there has been an escalation of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods, floods and landslides, which have caused death and destruction, some of which shout revenge, because they could have been avoided. The last seismic event strongly recalled the need and urgency to implement policies for the prevention and reduction of geological risks. The lack of up-to-date data, which allow to have under hand the conformation of the affected territory and its geological characteristics, is a serious damage that is done to the country. Currently, a 1:100,000 scale geological map is available, which appears to be insufficient and inadequate. It is necessary to produce an official geological map in scale 1:50.000 of the national territory and of the seabed and marine background, relative to the territorial waters. The first project to realize the geological map of our country on a scale of 1:50,000 dates back to 1868. Subsequently, it was attempted to achieve this objective by Law No 1497 of 1939. But only with Law No 305 of 1989 the geological mapping project (Carg) began, which provided for the establishment of a database for the creation of 652 geological sheets on a 1:50,000 scale, covering the entire national territory. The project was entrusted to the ISPRA Geological Service of Italy. According to the available data, state funding for just over EUR 81 million has been allocated and some 255 sheets have been completed, representing only 40% of the entire map coverage. 60% of the Italian territory is still covered by a geological map not updated to the standards currently required. It is a great unfinished work, but the calamitous events do not warn and do not stop. A further cognitive tool is represented by the maps of seismic microzonation, which provide useful information starting from the municipal scope for the management of the territory, for the programming of policies and for interventions on the prevention of seismic emergencies and for the reconstruction anti-seismic. Following the seismic events of 2009, which hit the Municipality of L'Aquila, the Berlusconi Government issued Decree-Law No. 39 of 2009, converted with amendments by Law No. 77 of 2009, in whose article 11 was foreseen the drafting by the Civil Protection Department of a plan for technical checks and preventive interventions aimed at reducing seismic risk for all buildings, structures and infrastructures located in the territories affected by the earthquake of Central Italy. The implementation of this verification plan was interrupted during the conversion process of the decree-law. The opposition of the time - again you, ladies and gentlemen - demanded the amendment of Article 11, in the light of the opinion expressed by the State-Regions Conference, which called for its own authority in this matter. The amendment of Article 11 led to the abolition of immediate seismic monitoring, but the Seismic Risk Prevention Fund was established at the Ministry of Economy and Finance, providing it with a total of 965 million euros, until 2016. Unfortunately, these resources, to a large extent, to date, have not been used by the regions, which have assumed a serious responsibility. I shall conclude, Madam President. In Marche, microzonations were only started in November 2016, after eight years. The Government, therefore, must commit itself to carrying out the project of the production of the new geological map of the national territory, on a scale of 1:50,000; to develop maps of seismic microzonation and to allocate the necessary resources, which must be put out of the constraint of the Stability Pact. Forza Italia, therefore, calls for rapid implementation of these commitments, involving local authorities to avoid pouring the usual crocodile tears that we are witnessing after every calamity. I close, Mr President, by protesting loudly at the times that are being given to the debate in this House. I'm always with her in this sad situation. Five minutes is insufficient to explain any kind of measure. Five minutes per group is a short time. We cannot cost Italian citizens 15,000 euros to speak three minutes. I got up at 4 a.m. this morning to be on time in this House at 11 a.m. and the time we are given is ridiculous. [[Applause from GroupFI-PdL XVII and Senator Zizza.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u16	Senator Ceroni, since the matter has already been raised by you on other occasions when I was presiding over the Assembly, I would point out to you that the protest must be addressed to your Parent Company, who will, if necessary, make you present at the Conference of the Leaders, and that the sitting on Tuesday morning is convened at 11 a.m. precisely to allow the senators to be present. I understand the great sacrifice that senators make to be here at 11:00. SANTANGELO (M5S). 11:00! I'm ashamed of the citizens outside! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Santangelo, Italy is great. We identified it on Tuesday morning to dedicate it to the motions for which, otherwise, it would have been difficult to find space in the calendar. I realize the needs, but let's try to settle the different needs. [[Senator Martelli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u17	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Higher Education Institute (Gaetano Filangieri) of Frattamaggiore, in the province of Naples, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u18	Senator Dalla Zuanna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u19	As the motion in question well says, the geological mapping project is unfinished: in fact, since 1989 it has been realized on a 1:50.000 scale only for 40% of the Italian territory. It is very serious that a country like ours, subject to many geological and densely anthropized risks, has not yet equipped itself with a geological map on a suitable scale and realized according to modern scientific approaches. It is worth remembering that one of the first interventions carried out after the disastrous earthquake of Friuli-Venezia Giulia in 1976 was precisely the geological map of the areas most affected (with measurements even at 1:10,000 and 1:25:000), carried out over a few months, thanks to the activity of geologists of the universities and researchers of CNR, who financed the project. The cartography available throughout the territory was realized between the end of the XIX century and the Sixties of the last century. In addition to being on an inadequate scale for land-use planning and risk mitigation, it has been carried out according to theories and approaches that have been partly exceeded. In fact, the progress of geological knowledge in the last fifty-sixty years has been remarkable. Therefore, it is necessary to aim for an organic project, with continuous funding over time, in order to complete, within a few years, the geological mapping throughout the national territory, starting from the areas at greater seismic risk. The expenditure for the completion of the geological map of Italy is justified not only by the obvious scientific and application reasons, but also by the fact that thousands of researchers from universities and local authorities are needed for its realization. These are high-level researchers who thus learn on the ground the "Mestiere". All this will lead them to acquire a research method aimed at collecting important data on the territory. In addition, behind the students and young researchers there are professors and senior researchers who, participating in these projects, have the opportunity to deepen such issues, thus allowing the formation of a modern scientific class, finally updated on issues of protection of the territory and prevention of seismic danger and able to compete internationally. This is what happened in Italian universities after the 1966 flood, thanks to the final projects, promoted by the commission chaired by Professor De Marchi. Unfortunately, looking at the distribution of the geological maps of recent realization regarding the national territory, it is noticed how there have been Regions and Provinces more active than others. It should be considered to impose on these bodies the implementation of the geological maps by overcoming, as suggested by the motion, the constraint of the Stability Pact and possibly reconsidering for some co-financing. This applies above all to areas that have recently been affected by earthquakes, as is also shown in the first mentioned experience of Friuli-Venezia Giulia. The motion takes its cue from recent seismic events, but it should be remembered that geological mapping is indispensable also because much of the Italian territory is subject to hydrogeological risk. In addition, geological mapping is a fundamental tool for spatial planning and management: urban planning; design of works; management of natural resources (especially water resources); management of protected areas. In fact, preliminary geological assessments need observations on several scales. It is not enough to observe the detail of the site on which you want to intervene with a work and on which you do an ad hoc geology survey: it also takes a look at the whole to understand what dynamics of the larger scale is subject to that portion of territory. That's why we need cards on a 1:50,000 scale. To be even more explicit, geological mapping is the first geological tool, a thematic map with its database. The final product, in fact, is not only a card, but also illustrative notes and, above all, a database that contains a lot of information not represented on the card itself, of which a country like ours should not do without. Subsequently, there may be many insights, for example on seismic microzonation - also mentioned in the motion - but the geological map is always the starting point. Finally, a better knowledge of the complex geology of our young country (geologically and not demographically speaking) serves not only to limit the damage that this young age and this great dynamism create, but also to enhance the geological heritage, especially as regards geosites, in a perspective of tourism in general and geotourism in particular. We do not hesitate, therefore: the new resources to complete the project Geological Cartography of Italy will certainly be money well spent. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u20	Senator Crosio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u21	Madam President, I would like to ask Mr Anitori something. In principle, I am in favour of this initiative, which is a very good hope for our country, but knowing a little 'the matter, I would not like the document, being, in my opinion - I do not want to seem rude - a little superficial in some parts, leave uncovered certain situations that we have already seen in our country. It is certainly essential to have the geological map that has not been completed in the country. As my previous colleague reminded me, there are parts of the country where this has been done under certain conditions and guarantees. The remaining proposal, if we fail to foresee an additional commitment in the motion, is that in any case the work done in recent years becomes with certainty an integral part of a territorial information system, as has been done in certain regions, because it is the platform on which today we are asking to plan or urbanize the territory, through which to have all the information codified and created with certain guarantees, imposed also at European level. I would not like to repeat what has been seen in the last fifteen years and, that is, that this was only a pretext to create a geological map by making flights already made in our country to rewrite maps that we already have, even if incomplete. The maps are there and the flights have been made. The CGR of Parma, the largest company in our country that makes aerial shootings, has flew all over the country, especially on the occasion of the last earthquakes. So there's already a part of the job. The initiative is therefore certainly commendable, it must be continued, but - in my opinion - one more step must be taken. There are geological maps, in some parts of the country, that reach even higher scales in terms of detail: in some areas of Lombardy, where the hydrogeological failure is strong, 1:5,000 scales have been made which are in turn an integral part of a territorial, provincial and regional information system, codified on systems and parameters in the European context. I ask, if possible, to foresee a constraint in this regard, because I would not like to see - as is often the case in our country - a system of geological maps and information on the non-organic and non-integrated territory: this is the concern which arouses in me the reading of the text of the motion. It would be interesting, in fact, finally to arrive in this country to have a register of evidence on which to work, to integrate, as I said, all cartography in a national territorial information system (this would perhaps be an opportunity to start this work) and to ensure that the data produced - or those we ask are produced - are compatible, integrated and codified in the territorial information system in the European context. I believe that this is a point that can be legitimately included in the text, not to disperse the important work that has been done in some regions, also employing important economic resources.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u22	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask her to give her an opinion on the motion and the additions that have been presented if they are formalised.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u23	Madam President, the Government's opinion on motion 707 (text 2) is in favour, provided that some rewordings are accepted. After the premises, at the first consideration, after the words "Italian territory," we ask to add: "in reference to small-scale cartography," it is emphasized that, to date, not even the topographic bases, reference for any thematic cartography, are updated at national level. The work of deriving large-scale topographical maps, coming from different producers, is still being tested. A modern geological cartography cannot be separated from an updated topographical base. We also propose, in the third paragraph of the first considered, after the phrase "from 1971," thanks also to a greater availability of topographic bases on the 1:50.000 scale, it was decided to create the new geological map of Italy with the same scale; It is then asked to replace, in the next sentence, the word "starting" with "development." It is also requested that the following be added to the fifth paragraph of the first recital, after the words "From 1999 onwards," with the exception of a small grant in 2004: "of 3.790,000 euros." In the paragraph that begins with the words "State funding for the Carg project" are now stopped for almost 20 years, replacing the word "20" with "15". In the first paragraph of the second recital, at the point where two orders from the President of the Council of Ministers are cited in brackets, I propose that the following be added after the words 'No 3519 of 2006': 'No 3907 of 2010'. In the second paragraph of the second considered after the words: "it wants to be achieved"; the following must be added: "The seismic microzonation studies were financed from 2010 and only until 2016 with the funds of Article 11 of Law No 77 of 2009, in the framework of structural and non-structural seismic prevention actions." We also call for the deletion of the last part of the same paragraph: after the words: "it would be necessary, therefore, to delete the words to be kept out of the Stability Pact" until "regional budgetary procedures" are added and the words: "refinance Article 11 of Law No 77 of 2009" are added. As for the device, we accept the first and the second commitment and ask for the rewording of the third commitment - since, starting from the year 2017, the territorial authorities must achieve a non-negative balance - in this sense: "to evaluate the opportunity to allow the Regions, pursuant to Article 10 of Law n. 243 of 2012, to conclude national solidarity agreements and/or special regional agreements, allowing the same the use of the administrative surplus of the previous years and the contraction of loans to carry out investments, in order to complete the Carg project, in compliance with the balance referred to in Article 9, paragraph 1, of the recalled law n. 243 of 2012, without prejudice to the investment operations of the individual institutions carried out through the use of debt and the use of the administrative results of the previous years, referred to in paragraph 1 of article 9 of the cited law n. 243 of 2012."
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u24	Senator Anitori, do you accept the proposed modifications?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u25	Yes, Madam President. I thank the Undersecretary Degani and welcome all the rewordings both in terms of the premises and the arrangements.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u26	I understand, however, that he does not accept the proposal for the integration of Senator Crosio.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u27	ANITORI (AP (Ncd-CpE)). If you'll excuse me, I'd like to do a little bit on that. The Italian Geological Service coordinates all the bodies involved in the drafting of geological maps, so there are no overlaps: the sheets already processed (255 plus 29) are already under the supervision of the Italian Geological Service, which coordinates everything. There is, therefore, no pindaric flight, all the more so because what the colleague was talking about is about the pindaric flights I do not know on which territory; in fact, people go physically to the ground. To make a 1:50,000 scale, you even start from a 1:10,000 or 1:25,000 scale job. Therefore, the palm is beaten in palm, the territory and there are no overlaps. All these data end up in the database of the Italian Geological Service.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u28	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u31	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, colleagues, representative of the Government, after the devastating earthquakes of April 2009 in L'Aquila and May 2012 in Emilia-Romagna and Lombardy, after the seismic sequence that hit the Central Italy heavily, started on 24 August 2016 with an earthquake of magnitude 6.0 and continued with other events of magnitude above 5.0 and above all with the earthquake of magnitude 6.5 of 30 October and then, again, with four shakes of high magnitude of 18 January last, linked to a very long seismic period still uninterrupted today, I note that only 2016 was characterized by a number of earthquakes located by the national seismic network of the National Institute of geophysics and volcanology equal to little more than 53,000. This number - I stress - has significantly increased compared to previous years: more than doubled compared to 2014 and more than tripled compared to 2015. Well, after these phenomena, which lead to destruction and considerable damage to the environment, to buildings and to man, with continuous states of emergency, it seems now necessary and inseparable to put in place policies in the country of prevention and mitigation from the hydrogeological risks and geological risks, of which today's motion wants to occupy itself. The prevention from geological risk cannot be separated from an appropriate and adequate knowledge of our territory, very fragile, through the availability of a geological mapping with an appropriate scale (1:50.000), covering both the entire national territory and its territorial waters. As the text of the motion emphasizes, on the other hand, the complete map base available to date for the entire Italian territory is on a scale of 1:100,000, too small and inadequate to report the quantity and quality of geophysical data produced by the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology (INGV), as well as by other research bodies and universities, such as the location of earthquakes and the extent of deformations. The paper survey work on the 1:100,000 scale, consisting of 277 sheets, began in 1877 and was completed after ninety-nine years, in 1976. Geological sheets and their legends are available on the website of ISPRA (which, moreover, has been in charge since yesterday for a further six months), in flash format. They can also be consulted at the ISPRA library or are on sale at the State Polygraph and Mint Institute. Only in the 1970s (since 1971), thanks to a greater availability of topographical bases on a 1:50,000 scale, it was decided to create the new geological map of Italy with the same scale. After several legislative interventions, which have outlined a regulatory and financial framework in the field of environmental protection, the Carg project (geological chart) was born in 1989. This project provided for the creation of 652 geological and geothematic sheets on the 1:50,000 scale, covering the entire national territory. The project, however, after almost thirty years, is still being carried out by ISPRA through its own geological service in Italy, either through collaborations and specific contractual acts concluded with Regions, Autonomous Provinces, Universities, and research institutes. To date the geological sheets activated are 255, equal to about 40 percent of the entire map coverage. So we are far behind. To date, the state funding allocated to the project amounts to approximately €81 million. On average, this is about EUR 3 million a year since the project started. Since the beginning of the 2000s, however, there has been no more funding and the project has been blocked; so let them be faced with another unfinished work. It should be emphasized that, among the about 400 missing sheets, many concern the Apennine dorsal, classified at a high and very high level of seismic danger. In addition to the appropriate geological map of scale, it is also appropriate to draw up the seismic microzonation maps, in line with the national classification of seismic hazard levels. The seismic microzonation, which allows to know the modifications that seismic shaking can involve on the surface, is indispensable for the government of the territory, for the planning and the planning of the territory, for the planning of the emergency and for the phase of post-sysm reconstruction. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, Senator Arrigoni. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I'm finishing. The seismic microzonation of the territory also requires resources. Of course, the Group of the North League will vote in favour of this motion. I am glad that the Government, even if it reformulates its commitments, takes into account these precise demands, which I imagine will be widely shared by the political forces of this House. It is not superfluous to remember that Italy has a medium-high seismic hazard (for frequency and intensity of phenomena), a very high vulnerability... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Three lines, Madam President, thirty seconds. ...because of the fragility of the building heritage, infrastructure, industrial, productive and services, for which it is necessary to intervene in order to make the building structures safer, and a very high exposure (for housing density and presence of a historical and artistic heritage unique in the world). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Arrigoni. It's not three lines, I'm sorry, it's two sheets. Please conclude and please have the pleasure to understand that the Presidency does not do so for your pleasure. Arrigoni (LN-Aut). I thought I had ten minutes, Madam President. Our peninsula is therefore at high seismic risk in terms of victims, damage to buildings and expected direct and indirect costs following an earthquake. The Group of the North League will therefore vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u33	You have the right to do so. I would remind you that explanations of vote are scheduled for five minutes. I shall pass it on so that the speakers can take it into account.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u34	Granaiola (Art.1-MDP). Madam President, the seismic sequence that has struck the inner areas of the Central Apennines since August has brought to light the fragility of the Italian territory, exposed to a high number of geological risks. With natural disasters, from earthquake to bad weather, there is also the urgent need for an official geological mapping updated to a useful scale in order to be able to constitute a valid tool of prevention also through seismic microzonation. The motion that we are discussing rightly highlights the serious limitations of our country both in the production of a modern cartography covering the entire national territory and territorial waters, and in the drafting of fundamental seismic microzonation maps to know the structure of the areas with the highest seismic danger. Without these tools it is difficult to make a serious update of civil protection plans, inform citizens about geological risks and invest in education on geological and environmental issues. A modern cartography, at an appropriate scale (1:50.000) and seismic microzonation studies are the basis of an effective civil protection activity, as they return information indispensable for the government of the territory, for the planning, for the planning in case of emergency and for the reconstruction post earthquake. As far as cartography is concerned, we are faced with yet another unfinished work, since almost thirty years have passed since Law 67 of 1988 inserted the realization of geological cartography as part of the annual programme of urgent interventions of environmental protection. If, for the implementation of 40% of the entire map coverage, approximately €80 million have been allocated over time, for an average of just over €3 million per year, it is clear that it is necessary to accelerate with adequate resources immediately. If the Carg project that provided for the realization of 652 geological sheets on the 1:50.000 scale to cover the entire national territory is blocked for almost fifteen years and if, as the motion recalls, 60 percent of the Italian territory, including the delicate Apennines, is not yet covered by a modern geological map with an adequate scale, it is quite clear that the central problem is the absence of resources engaged in this direction in a continuous way. In addition, many regions fail to ensure the mapping of the territory because it is impossible to co-finance their projects with their own resources. This is why, in agreeing with the objectives of the motion, examine the rewordings proposed by the Government, we strongly ask the Commission to make a concrete commitment to allocate adequate resources to recover the lost time and find the funds allocated to the expenses for the prevention of seismic risk, to the updating of cartography, to microzonation. For all these reasons, on behalf of the Group to which I belong, I am voting in favour of motion No 707 (text 3). [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u37	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, our Group will vote in favour of motion 707 (text 3), but I would also like to make a few comments to the Government in office, and also to the previous one and the previous one, until we reach the governments that were in office at the time of the earthquake in L'Aquila, which obviously made many commitments on paper, but of fact they produced very few. A geological map like the one rightly described in the motion should have been available already, because prevention, as in medicine, is much better than cure: it costs much less. When we talk about microzonation to be entrusted to the Regions in order to make sure that they map the territory at risk, also for the urban interventions to be realized, and it is said that it must be done on the basis of the leftovers of the administrations of the previous years, it means that the cards do not want to be done. The fact that little more than 255 sheets of 652 have been made in all these decades means that nothing has been done. Of course, it is necessary to intervene, plan and prevent also in the realization of the urban planning plans, which are municipal and regional, and to understand in which territory one goes to build, but it must be built not with a trivial geological relationship, but bearing in mind the maps of the Regions. And here comes the painful side, because the maps were made in scale before the 1970s: there was much work, even started from 1868; strangely enough, when the Regions were made, everything stopped. The regions have thought of other, rather than legislate and invest on prevention, which does not give consent, does not generate clientelism. To me in high school they taught that toponyms and toponyms should be taken into account: what, then, does the fact that the country hit hard by the earthquake have been called Accumoli mean to us? They called it Accumoli because it was always reduced to a pile of rubble as a result of the earthquakes that were repeated continuously and continued to build and rebuild where the earthquakes had destroyed. It is obvious that in order to interpret a map of that area there was no need for great scientists; instead of moving the interventions to other areas and leaving that free, because surely the geological and volcanological maps of those areas, with reference to the situation of the ground - but also the marine areas, which rightly the motion has resumed - highlight considerable risks. That is why it is necessary to invest and this is not just a criticism of the current government, but of those of the last fifteen years (the text of the motion spoke of twenty years, but the representative of the government corrected it): well, it has been fifteen years that nothing is done and that the Ministry of the Environment has failed. It is therefore necessary for this Government to commit itself to doing something more and better, because the figures are not big: to rebuild it takes hundreds of billions and to prevent, until now, in twenty years we have spent 80 million. Let's put on something more, at least we know where to build and where not. In conclusion, Mr President, the original sin comes from all the regions, who have disinterested themselves in the problems of prevention, even if curing makes much more than preventing. We shall vote in favour of this motion, which has rightly made Parliament aware of the need to invest in prevention. We hope that in the next budget law there will be 200-300 million euros to realize and conclude this microzonation of geological and geomorphological maps for prevention. [[Applause from Senator Longo Eva.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u40	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE will vote in favour of motion No 707 (text 3) tabled by Senator Anitori. The discussion of the subject, although complex in its technicalisms, does not exempt us from further reflections, and above all puts us in front of actions that can no longer be postponed. The policies of mapping, security, emergency and monitoring of the national territory all have as common denominators prevention and study. It is no coincidence that the history of cartography is also identified with the history of men, who have always tried to balance two of their primary needs: the security of the place where to live and the desire to move to know, seek and exploit the resources contained therein. It follows, therefore, that geological cartography represents its maximum value as a strategic instrument in its widest meaning, whose aim is to draw as accurately as possible all the information that can be obtained from the observed territory. The idea of a current geological cartography is the basis of a complete territorial study both of an environmental or technical-engineering type; nevertheless, the completion of the geological cartography project of the Italian territory is a primary and indispensable element also for the economic development of our country. I certainly do not want to link the measure under consideration to the only seismic events that have unfortunately involved Italy, but I cannot help but support the thesis that a complete and updated geological map represents the fundamental tool for the knowledge of the territory, its resources and - unfortunately - its fragility. It is undeniable, therefore, the usefulness both from the scientific point of view and from the strictly applicative one. This is also recognised abroad in our European Union. Let me briefly mention here the geological mapping actions of neighbouring France, which covers all the national territory and which is also easily accessible by anyone via the Internet to the infoterre.fr site and even through the dedicated app Infogéol. France, although older geologically and consequently more seismicly stable, has therefore equipped itself with appropriate, complete and easily accessible geological mapping tools. There are, to be honest, good examples also in Italy with GIS or Web-GIS applications that are limited to regional areas, because, as indicated in the motion, geological maps cover only 40% of the national territory. If from the scientific point of view the endowment of a modern geological cartography can represent a goal, from the application point of view represents a starting point for the studies and comparisons that they can stimulate: one example is the regional geo-environmental frameworks within which plans and infrastructure projects can be carried out, as well as works of various nature (consolidation, reclamation and evaluation), with an increasingly advanced geological competence. This is why the geological map can, on the contrary, be considered as preparatory to any public or private work that is carried out in the national territory. Surely the disasters caused by natural phenomena constitute a huge obstacle to sustainable growth and to the compatible development of a society, yet natural disasters have always coexisted with man. Therefore it is right - and necessary - to speak of 360 degree prevention, that is to evaluate the knowledge of natural phenomena also in terms of activity for the analysis of the territory, oriented above all to the study and determination of the causes of natural phenomena, to the identification of the risks and to the identification of the zones of the most vulnerable territory. In conclusion, Madam President, we confirm the vote in favour of the motion, which is certainly acceptable in substance, but above all for the encouragement of proper management and attention to the territory. Last but not least, because we are well convinced that the costs of the knowledge of the territory have returns, even economic, far greater than to ignore its criticalities. [[Applause from Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u43	ANITORI (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Madam President, I would like to thank all the Senators who have spoken in general debate. The in-depth and up-to-date knowledge of the territory as a whole, both in terms of the physical and environmental aspects of the geological and geomorphological context and in terms of the compatibility between these and the potential transformations of land use, is a fundamental tool for a correct forecast, prevention and management of the delicate environmental balance. The prevention not done is a lack of knowledge, therefore, very important is the knowledge of the territory, prerequisite to prevent, make forecasts and build on our territory. Financing the continuation of a strategic project on a national scale such as the Carg project, that is the official geological map of the State, would represent for our country an investment in prevention and planning, against an economic commitment to the damage that we are suffering from seismic and hydrogeological events, that continuously fall on our territory, absolutely irrisory compared to the benefits obtainable. I would like to say a few words to thank and acknowledge the merit of all the professionals, technicians, scientists and professors who, in research centres and public agencies, in recent years have carried out this project in an extremely complex and problematic context because of the resources that have come sobbing and alternately. Among the great unfinished works of our country, besides geological mapping, as we have seen, there is also seismic microzonation. Seismic microzonation cards are fundamental; if there is no geological map, there can be no seismic microzonation cards. They therefore assume a strategic and indispensable importance in order to consciously orient the choices of government of the territory, starting from the municipal scope, both for the already built areas and for those of expansion and development. I would also like to mention an initiative that I took together with Senator Di Giorgi: I am referring to the organization of a press conference with all representatives of the world of geology. On that occasion there were representatives of the Italian Geological Society, the National Institute of Geophysics and Volcanology, ISPRA, Civil Protection and the Center for Seismic Microzonation. I would just like to quote one of the many phrases spoken by the speakers at the press conference: Would you ever be operated by a surgeon who doesn't know human anatomy? That is the most important question I ask all of you and the government. It is important to have this tool in order to be able to do any public work, to secure and ensure that our assets are not destroyed, as we have seen in recent emerging situations. It is therefore necessary to work not always in emergency, but in prevention and in anticipation. This tool is very valid because, despite being the data processed, the detectors go on the field and therefore work knowing perfectly the territory they study. Our Group therefore voted in favour of motion No 707 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u46	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, motion No 707 (text 3) at the first signature of Senator Anitori raises a small issue which is of great importance. It was after the 1968 earthquake in Belice that we discovered that we did not have a modern cartography. How many earthquakes have passed since then? A huge number, yet this country has not adapted and has not provided absolutely indispensable means of knowledge. That is why we will vote in favour of the motion, even with the rather minute rewordings requested by the government, which are probably useless, because the meaning of the motion was already clear enough. I hope that the Senate will interpret this vote - probably almost unanimous - as a promise and commitment to the future. It is frankly absurd that in this country there is no public institution where all the necessary knowledge is gathered in the event of an earthquake, an eruption, a flood, avalanches and in general of any kind of disaster with which we have had to face all these years. We need a map of the seismic and hydrogeological risk; we also need a map of the energy supply; we need a map of the building: how the houses were manufactured, how they work, what abuses, what condons did not come to an end because there was no answer. Without having all this concentrated in a public institution and therefore democratically and quickly consultable, every time the event occurs we navigate "on sight" and behave in an absolutely complicated way; we paralyze in the first months of intervention and we have difficulties in building and distributing public funds. It is on this very serious difficulty of the country that the worst speculation is introduced. We've witnessed jackaling every time there's been a natural calamity. Much of these facts of jackalling could be avoided by a simple provision that provides that all the mapping necessary to know our territory is in public domain at a public institution. In conclusion, I hope that the vote we are about to make is simply a promise of commitment from the Senate. These are small things that could be done before the end of the parliamentary term. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u47	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Liceo Classico "Sesto Properzio" of Assisi, in the province of Perugia, present in the gallery, to which we welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u50	SANTANGELO (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening here this morning is a hypocrisy that I have seen a few times - alas - over the last four years. I do not want the colleague who has tabled the motion, which is also absolutely acceptable as a whole, but it makes me particularly aware of the proposals for changes made by the Government, in the person of the Undersecretary Degani, which on other occasions we have had the opportunity to appreciate for her speeches. The motion addresses the issue of seismic prevention. In this country, we should stop doing meaningless things, like this act. In fact, a draft law should be presented immediately, providing the necessary financial resources. Not having cartography - I say it as an architect - means for a doctor not to make a medical record of a sick person. The proposals for amendments you made on behalf of the Government are of no use to you, Madam Undersecretary, even to save your conscience. Having written that funding for a project has not been there for fifteen years, rather than twenty years does not save her conscience. Then the words were replaced: "the start of a path" with: "the development of a path". But you, Madam Undersecretary, have forgotten that this path began thirty years ago and therefore your conscience is not saved in front of all this. I am about to finish, because adding more words to nothing mixed with nothing really serves little. At least citizens who are outside can see the inconsistency of this initiative. The motion could make sense if there were some real commitments made by the Government not only with Parliament but with the citizens. On the other hand, this time too, you, Madam Undersecretary, have acted like nothing. The motion uses the famous formula: "to evaluate the opportunity of "to." This means that the Government is also free not to do what is foreseen in the motion, i.e. to make maps to verify the seismicity of our country. Can the Government decide not to produce such important documentation today in 2017? Can the Government decide whether or not to use the money from the budget of a state like Italy to make the medical record of a sick person, which is the Italian territory? Can the government assume the responsibility to keep teasing all Italians? Madam Undersecretary, believe me, the 5 Star Movement cannot vote strongly against this initiative. Our vote will therefore be in favour, but I would ask not only the President, but all of you to insert the fourth button, namely yes with disgust, yes with hypocrisy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is the vow that we will express; it will be a yes depicted with a green as for all of you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But it is as if we were pushing that fourth button, which, from an ideal point of view, we have established today. It doesn't make sense to waste time on acts of this kind: I don't even know what dignity the Government can have in sending its own representative to talk about nothing, mixed with nothing! That's the point. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u53	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, while awaiting arguments that push away majority and opposition, such as the next VAT rate at 24%, the Senate Assembly also addresses important issues, but which are not divisive. Obviously, in fact, one cannot but agree with the content of the motion by my colleague Anitori, despite the appropriate critical remarks and additions expressed by my colleague from Forza Italia, Ceroni. The need to complete the mapping of the national territory therefore sees a cross-cutting consensus, first of all because it is a matter of civilization. A country that can boast of being one of the main economies of the world cannot fail to have a complete geological map of its territory. It is precisely through the development of infrastructure, productive structures and the consequent housing settlements that the economy and wealth of a nation develop. Moreover, a more coherent mapping of the country allows to evaluate the risks that the territory runs, trying to avoid disastrous events, not only in the event of an earthquake, which is the tragic moment time closest to us, but also in the case of other scenarios, due to extraordinarily adverse weather conditions. Certainly the recent earthquake that hit Central Italy motivates the need and urgency to censor the territory from a geological point of view, because it is necessary to know more precisely where to intervene and where it is necessary to implement more controls and more precise indications in the legislation, which concerns the territorial planning and the municipal regulatory plans. In Italy it was not built too much, as someone said, but it was built badly. The recent controversy over the three towers to be built in the former area of the Roman trot racetrack has given rise to reflections in me. I wonder: which of us could imagine cities like Tokyo, Bangkok, Shanghai or Singapore without their thousands of towers? They are among the highest and most beautiful towers in the world, built in territories among the most seismic in the world, in an area of the most delicate world, where in addition to the earthquakes are manifested tsunami and tsunami of an unheard of power. Yet, the ensemble of the furies of nature did not stop those great economies, which manifest their wealth and civilization also by building authentic architectural masterpieces, built with engineering techniques and using materials of absolute avant-garde. This is the progress that moves the world: we are talking about great civilizations! Of course - even if I say so - these countries have meticulous geological maps of their territory. Certainly more detailed is the geological zoning and the more that work is useful to those who intend to build new buildings or restructure existing ones. This should apply to the projects of thousands of technicians, who open yards every day in every part of the beautiful country. So I want to ask to continue with the geological mapping of the territory, as Senator Anitori has done very appropriately with the motion of which she is first signatory. I also ask, if it is still possible, to supplement the motion by inviting the Government, as well as allowing the completion of that work of seismic microzonation... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pelino, I remind you that we are in the process of making explanations of vote. Perhaps he should have made the proposal in the debate. PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, if it is not possible to add a commitment to the point of order of the motion, I would ask the Government to take account of my proposal. In fact, I ask the Government to evaluate, in agreement with the Regions, the adoption of measures of an administrative and fiscal nature useful to the realization of the safety of the buildings and infrastructures in the territories at risk. We hope, in fact, that once the mapping of the Italian territory, which is as exact as possible, we do not think to put those cards in a drawer and to wait for the next disaster, but we want to continue with determination that work, moreover begun by President Berlusconi, aimed at the safety of the existing structures in the territories at risk, in order to avoid other collapses and other tragedies. In expressing this wish, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of this motion. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u56	VACCARI (PD). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Degani, first of all I would like to thank my colleague, Mrs Anitori, for bringing to the attention of this House a decisive issue in order to give more strength to a national strategic plan for the security of the territory, which has already been launched with Italian security. As is known, in fact, hydrogeological failure and seismic risk in Italy are critical of national importance whose management has become a priority. Just remember the historical data and statistics relating to the last fifty years that estimate in 4,175 the victims of hydrogeological disasters and in 4,241 the deaths from earthquakes, while the economic losses caused by natural disasters are estimated in at least 240 billion euros of which 25% relative to hydrogeological disasters. It was the same President of the Republic, Sergio Mattarella, who recently intervened on these issues, encouraging to combat behaviours and situations that constitute a source of serious degradation and danger to the health of citizens and to contain the ever more alarming criticalities of the hydrogeological failure, also recalling, in the message of the end of 2015, the importance of the spirit of collaboration in the care of our territories. Moreover, the theme of prevention has been reiterated on several occasions as an asset around which to develop coordinated policies between the State and the Regions, putting to value the experiences that the Regions have already developed over the years to deepen the level of knowledge and research on the reduction of seismic risk, on the strategic monitoring of some natural risks such as the tides and landslides, and in order to mitigate the impacts on the territory, the population and the identification and study of natural resources: water, soil, geothermal energy and mineral resources. These are basic knowledge for the development of knowledge frameworks and for the transposition of national and European directives and laws. The national framework that is lacking serves precisely this: to support national policies related to the environment, spatial planning and public works, especially through the production of territorial information systems and geological, pedological and geothematic maps, as have in recent years the seismic geological services and soils of many Italian regions. The geological structures of some Italian regions are among the most complex in the world and have often been studied by universities, CNR and other public bodies, generating geological surveys of large parts of the hilly and mountainous territory, such as that of the plain, producing important databases such as those on geognostic and archaeological data. It is from this enormous heritage of information that it is possible to produce, in very long terms, the National Geological Charter with certain and constant resources, as my colleague Dalla Zuanna recalled, by reconnecting the work already done over the years, as my colleague Crosio recalled, avoiding unnecessary duplications and instead putting to value the numerous applied researches developed on the analysis of phenomena. Soil is a vital resource, to a large extent non-renewable, under increasing pressure and must therefore be protected, as recognised by the European Union. The proper management of the water supply intertwines the work of defining the National Geological Charter for knowledge relating to the distribution and characterization of aquifers. Added to this is the high pressure to which the coastal belt of our peninsula is subjected, which is burdened by natural phenomena such as the subsidenza, the erosion of the beaches and the floods during the tides that endanger both the inhabitants and the productive activities. This is why we need tools to support integrated management in these systems too, able to collect all regional data in a territorial and national information system that only a National Geological Charter can make available. Sensibilising society through information on geo-environmental issues, on the concept of the environment as a collective asset to be exploited also through geo-sites to direct management choices and individual behaviors towards sustainable development, is another important task that could be carried out with the implementation of the National Geological Charter. For these reasons, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will also vote strongly in favour of the proposed motion, sharing its commitments. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u59	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u60	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 707 (text 3), tabled by Senator Anitori and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u63	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, it is now with absolute shame and embarrassment that this majority and this Government do not decide to do something that political honesty would require. I refer to the need to set the date for social referendums, signed by millions of women and men, at the request of the CGIL, according to a sacred right enshrined in the Constitution and reaffirmed by the result of the constitutional referendum. They deal with issues such as vouchers, procurement rules and - I would add - Article 18 as well. I am not mistaken; I am referring precisely to Article 18, on which the question was not admitted. As was the case with the referendum on the Constitution, Italian women and men know what they do, can interpret, read and move accordingly. Now I believe that the Government also knows this, because it was not enough to introduce a question of the Constitution, which did not correspond in any way to the substance of the text of the counter-reform so-called Boschi, in order to lead to error or deceive millions of women and men, who have instead voted with awareness and clarity. That referendum reduced democracy and the achievements of years. I believe that the embarrassment of the government and the majority has reached unsustainable levels. You enter toxins into the information that makes you say that those laws have produced occupation. We know how that data is produced. ISTAT is forced to say that there is an increase in employment, in that case often youthful, even when in a week it is bought by the tobacconist for an hour the voucher corresponding to an activity that can be a repetition or delivery of pizzas. You call this occupation? It is very clear what you have to do, the responsibility to which you are called, unique because it is reiterated by constitutional law: to set the date for the holding of the referendums, of the three questions. On the referendum on our Constitution, the effects of which were combined with those of the electoral law Italicum, which was not the subject of the referendum question, the result was clearly expressed in millions of votes. In addition, you have one advantage: this time you just need a no, which you said to be easier to support and vote. I, on the other hand, believe that millions of yeses will submerge you. You have the absolute duty to set the social referendum appointment by this week. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u66	MIRABELLI (PD). Madam President, this morning in front of the Senate a demonstration was held, organized by the CGIL, to support an appeal signed by many associations and organizations engaged in the fight against the mafia and with which this branch of Parliament is asked to discuss as soon as possible the bill, already approved in the House, on the subject of the amendments to the anti-mafia code. This is an important bill for many reasons: because it significantly improves the management of assets seized from organised crime, reformes the Agency for property confiscated and curbs a number of distortions. It is a bill, already approved in the Chamber of Deputies, which contains a text of popular initiative promoted by those associations, which was then submitted to a long work, first in the Anti-Mafia Commission and then in both Chambers, thanks to which we have reached the document defining the lines of reform of the code contained in this proposal for a law. For too long - the associations are right - the measure has been blocked in the Commission. I believe that the House must take up today's call and bring into question the bill already adopted in the House, but without changing its content, the result of a long work that allows us today to think that, if adopted quickly, it can be a good intervention and can equip us with more tools for the fight against the mafia. This is a necessary measure which must be brought to the House quickly and must not be distorted by the long work that has been done over the last few years.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u69	Mr Spilabotte (PD). Madam President, I am sorry to do this on the eve of the International Women's Day, but I have to make a public complaint, because on the Facebook profile of a certain Mario Salieri, one of the most popular directors of the porn genre, appeared the promotion of a movie entitled "La Ciociara" freely inspired, according to the same director, to the movie by De Sica "La Ciociara". The latter had as protagonist Sofia Loren and denounced the so-called Moroccans of the years 1943-1944, during the Second World War, when as many as 60,000 people, among men, women and children, suffered unprecedented violence (which in some cases also led to death) by Moroccan soldiers framed in French troops, who, as a prize for having freed these lands from Nazi-fascistism, had had had freedom of action for fifty hours on our territory. This freedom of action has become the raid of these territories and group violence against men, women and children. This director, Mario Salieri, offers a free version inspired by De Sica's film and the star actress, Roberta Gemma, is an undisputed star of the hard genre. I would therefore ask for attention from this House. I will also present an act of inspection union. I also call for urgent action by the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, through its Directorate-General for Cinema, which has the capacity to approve the dissemination, impose prohibitions or deny the nullity if the cinematographic work is an offense to vice-costume. I think that, in addition to the insult to the good costume, this film work - if that can be defined - is really offended to the memory and suffering of so many people, often forgotten, who have had to suffer this barbarism. I therefore ask my colleagues to join in this appeal and to denounce this absurd fact. [[Applause from Senator Valdinosis.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-07-LEG17-Senato-sed-777.ana.u70	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.42 a.m.
