ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 16 March.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.35 a.m. and resumed at 9.55 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u9	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, let us renew the request for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend our work. (The sitting was suspended at 9.58 a.m. and resumed at 10.18 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u11	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u14	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, let us renew the request for a quorum check. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u15	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u16	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 10.19).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u17	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2705. Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u18	Mr President, the decree-law under conversion, which provides for the acceleration of international protection procedures, as well as for combating illegal immigration, shows that reception and security are not alternative or antagonistic aims; on the contrary, it wants to demonstrate how the protection of the rights to international protection requires as a condition also strict compliance with obligations, from registration, identification and detention, in accordance with European directives on procedures, status and reception: dowels of a single puzzle. Faced with an exponential increase since 2013 in asylum applications, from 26,000 to more than 123,000 and with a 40% recognition, between refugee status, subsidiary or humanitarian protection, the definition of these procedures requires more time and certainty, also in relation to the relative increase in the number of appeals and appeals in court against denials. Simplification, therefore, to be implemented also with the abolition of a degree of appeal against the decisions, provided that in the guarantee of the collegial rite and the right process, between videotapes and guarantee of the contradictory. In this direction, the work carried out by the Joint Commissions has made an important contribution to the definition of particularly sensitive aspects, between the need to speed up the examination of applications and the guarantee of rights towards particularly vulnerable persons, including in the first instance of Directive 2013/32/EU, and in order to standardise the legal order with the findings referred to in the infringement procedures relating to annotation in the residence permit of the Member State of attribution of status. A significant result of this work is the extension of the courts of the first appeal with the specialised sections, extended from 14 to 26, and thus coinciding with the headquarters of each district. Another requirement pursued by the provisions of the decree-law, as evidenced also by the annual report of the guarantor Palma that will be presented to the Chamber, is that of nuclear with greater rigour the activities of identification and recognition of migrants, until considering the refusal as a legitimate reason for detention for danger of escape, and to ensure the effectiveness of any measures of expulsion and removal through the new centers of permanence for a capacity extended to 1.600 places. New appropriations are foreseen for voluntary returns and for the activation of the automated system for the management of procedures relating to the entry and residence of irregulars, linked to other platforms: interoperability of the necessary databases with a view to strengthening European and police judicial cooperation. Particularly important in this legal framework is the recruitment of experienced professional figures, as well as the provision for specific training of the court of appeal, to which we had also been recalled by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees: rules for the implementation of a system able to govern a phenomenon of supranational scope with complex international implications. It is not just a challenge for Italy, it is not just a challenge for Europe. It is a global challenge in a context of instability and a constantly evolving geopolitics. However, the Mediterranean represents a border and undoubtedly the field of proof, for us and for Europe, of the capacity to deal with this humanitarian emergency, and hence the destiny, the future and the holding of the same process of European integration towards a single area of freedom, security and justice. A single area that requires a greater commitment to a common European immigration, defence and foreign policy policy. For over two years now, we have been repeating what remains to be done in this House to fully implement Title V of the Lisbon Treaty, and in particular for a single migration policy, and a single asylum policy, with the prerequisite that an internal area of free movement of goods, services and persons should correspond to a single external border of the European Union. We repeat this today in conjunction with the celebrations of the sixty years since the signing of the Treaties of Rome. For this reason, I believe that, from an operational point of view, the strengthening of the Frontex agency, the strengthening of Triton and Poiseidon operations, the new European Border and Coast Guard and the implementation of the presence of the EASO (European Asylum Support Office) with Europol at hotspots crisis points are the tools for achieving uniformity in the discipline of investigation procedures, reception and status, according to new regulations, starting from common lists of safe countries of origin and fast and effective returns. In this same direction, the agreement of collaboration with Libya for the formation of a Libyan Coast Guard, which can carry out the control and rescue service in the local waters, represents an important step forward to avert those departures; departures often without landings and with massacres at sea that have caused more than 4,500 victims in 2016 alone. The strong call formulated by President Grasso not to create an equivalence between migration and the phenomenon of terrorism and Islamic radicalization is in this direction acceptable, but workable in the collective imagination only if condition for the reception is the guarantee of a regulatory response for greater public security, order and legality, without derogations. But we also need rules governing clear and simplified reception procedures and, above all, greater political, international as well as European, convergent commitment, with more effective neighbourhood policies and policies to support development and cooperation with the destabilised and crisis areas, ranging from North Africa, the Horn of Africa, the Middle East, following the regional dialogue instruments launched already in 2006 with the Rabat process and the Kartoum process of 2014, also starting from the strengthening of the diplomatic network in those places, as set out in the decree-law that is being converted. More effective management of the entry and reception of external borders into the Schengen system must be initiated, including through the revision of the Dublin Agreement, which is already under discussion. agreements which are not limited to supporting relocation mechanisms, which have been carried out with difficulties and resistance, as highlighted in the European Commission's latest report. It is necessary to fully implement the European Agenda on Migration, for shared but undivided responsibility, unique and integrated. Also on the capacity of Europe to manage migration will be measured the strength to continue with determination in the process of European integration, to which the President of the Republic of Mattarella reminded us yesterday, since even on these unresolved issues the referendum on Brexit has been played. A widespread internal reception system is needed, based on contracts in accordance with the European Commission's communication on the provision of services, as also required by the DAC; a system of control and verification that avoids that these waiting places, which are far too long, do not turn into places of discomfort and exclusion, between violence and illegal trafficking. A targeted commitment, that in the fight against human trafficking, from the starting points to the landing and permanence places, starting from the creation of legal routes of entry, alternatives and safe, which take away resources from trafficking and organised crime. Finally, one important issue concerns the reception of minors, which we discussed last week in this House when the specific legislation was adopted, which the decree-law refers to. We refer to unaccompanied minors, because the numbers tell us of too many lives of which traces are lost, with an indignation that risks being stifled by the indifference and fear of the other by itself, that distance us not from the feeling of solidarity and closeness to be granted, but from the deepest feeling of common belonging to a single and interdependent destiny, that of a wider humanity. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u20	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it seems strange to have to talk about a decree-law such as that on our examination. The question I ask myself and which I put to the majority who I believe will vote in a convincing way on this decree is as follows: with regard to the situation, on what does this measure really affect? Will the courses be the priority? When the Italians stop on the street and ask them how we need to address the issue of immigration in our country, which unfortunately is reduced to a large parking lot of despair (when it's okay), do they answer that it is necessary for the magistrates to take courses and speak English (or perhaps French, as we suggested with an amendment)? Is that what immigration is all about? I think we need to bring the subject back to what it really is. Last year there were about 181,000 arrivals of migrants in Italy, 20 percent more than the 153,812 arrivals of the previous year. In these first three months the arrivals have doubled (the source of the data is the Ministry of the Interior). Only in the first three months of the year (March still has to end and just remember the 3,500 arrivals last weekend), the numbers have more than doubled compared to the same period of 2015 and still increased compared to the arrivals of 2014. Do we have to stop all these arrivals or do we think that our country is a country where there should be 134,000 asylum applications? Then we have to go and see, because we will have to face the reality: how many of these people are hosted in the so-called reception centers - then I will talk about a commitment that the Minister took the other day in Veneto and that he immediately ignored - who are really entitled to these questions? The percentage will be around 10 percent. With this decree you have decided to "put the dots on the i" not on how to block the arrivals, but on the bureaucratic aspect of the territorial commissions and, because you will put the confidence on the decree, also on this aspect you have thought to intervene. When an application for asylum is rejected for the first time, why should it be possible to start again with appeals a second time, under the legal aid of the State, and thus start the bureaucratic machinery? Legal aid involves costs of 45 million, not the first application, but the demands arising from the first refusal. With these interventions on the functioning of the committees it is as if the Italian State states that if you are not entitled to the status of asylum seeker you give the start, with legal aid, to the appeals and of course you remain in the reception centers (or first reception) at the expense of the Italian taxpayer. 10:31 a.m. (Marin followed). The problem that a decree-law on immigration should pose is how arrivals are blocked and what to do to ensure that this invasion - because, unfortunately, we are talking about an authentic invasion in our country - is stopped. Another fact on which I would invite the majority and the Government to reflect is that this year, according to the numbers of last year, the arrivals will be more than 250,000 (it has been 181,000 last year). How many of these people, to date, do we know where they are, whether they are in the centres or - what should they be - if they are part of social life? Almost everyone is still in the care centers - thanks to chronic assistantism, of which I will speak later, so dear to the cooperatives - or have disappeared: we do not know where they are, how they live and what they do. This question we do not ask: we make a decree-law on immigration whose first points are dedicated to determining whether the magistrate speaks English or not, that there must be the interpreter and everything must be translated. That cannot be the way to deal with this issue. In this regard, I make a territorial engraving. A few days ago the Minister of Interior Minniti, on the occasion of his visit to Bagnoli di Sopra, Veneto (where twenty-four hours ago there was a arrest because two operators of a reception center suffered an attempt of violence), met the mayors who work on the territory and guaranteed - I give a news to the majority - not only that no one would arrive anymore, but that the center of Bagnoli di Sopra and others of the area would be closed and moved elsewhere. Well, I tell my colleagues in the Group of the Party of European Socialists that yesterday they arrived first 35 and then, with another prefecture directive, another 15 people. Others arrive, therefore, at a center that the Minister, only 24 hours ago, said he would close. I regret that the politics and government of my country lose credibility in this way, saying, within 24 hours, that the center will be closed while the arrivals continue. There is nothing left to do but pour on the administrators the failure of a migration policy that was born with Mare Nostrum, continued with Frontex and had its climax when this House decided to decriminalize the crime of illegal immigration: not even that deterrent we decided that there should be. You said (you, not us, because thanks to Heaven we will never take this political responsibility): The more open doors for everyone, the better they get. You claimed great success when you said that there would be this subsidiarity, this aid to Italy and Greece, namely that about 20,000 migrants would be sent to other European countries, but also in this case, because the numbers are not politically colored, the relocations in Europe last year were just 4,170. This 20 percent, which has increased steadily, also returns to relocations. Promise relocations, party and sell this great success, but then we see that the relocations are in a very small number. What's the problem, then? Italian migration policy. I would have liked to have heard that and we would have liked to have contributed to the debate by means of amendments and agendas, even touching someone's consciences. Are you sure you're doing the right thing? Are we able to withstand an authentic invasion and such a wave of migration? No, we're not. The people who come to our country to work and improve their living conditions and those of their family are welcome, we would miss more. Those who come here, however, have three possibilities and the first is to fall victim to undeclared work. Those who come to our territory and are in order - as we have already said - find their arms open to welcome and have the right; it is right that there be and we take charge of it. With these numbers, however, you either fall victim to black labor or - even worse - you delinque, and we see cases of it. Will it also be necessary to read the numbers of the prison population of our country? We're gonna have to compare them, or what are we gonna talk about? Let's talk about nothing. It is good then who says that politics and this government have tired and we call ourselves out of politics that does not act. It will be necessary to look at the concrete numbers. The second possibility is delinquere, while the third possibility for those who come to us is to continue living in cooperatives as victims of chronic assistanceism, which obviously very much like the same cooperatives. Chronic welfare is, according to the logic of the "Stay here," with mobile phones, televisions and various requests, all day to do nothing". On the other hand, chronic assistanceism is so cultural that we say that we are opposed to the continuous assistance of the State, because we believe that people must be free and autonomous. I therefore do not hesitate to call this decree-law 'failure', which you will probably vote - evidently, in the majority or in the Democratic Party - without even reading it and without going to see what is concrete in it. If I were a majority MEP, I would ask myself what I am voting for. Not a single thing is indicated. The question is: do we have to stop the arrivals of migrants or according to the government must be continuous, exponentially increasing day by day, month by month, year by year? Do we have to stop the arrivals of migrants? See that in the other European countries they are decreasing, while we are in a different situation (and certainly we also have difficult borders, represented for the three quarters from coasts). If we have to stop the arrivals of migrants, what is the point of the measure that provides for it? There is not and for one simple reason: we have a different idea of this country. You are pleased that our cities are large parking lots of despair (and then there are the three aspects we have seen before: crime, black work and chronic welfare). If it is okay, then, we are talking about great parking lots of despair, but the Italy we have in mind is completely different. Also banish the agreement with Libya and come to positions that were Berlusconi Governments, who were able to block arrivals. You have waved it; we have been asked for boats, 800 million, training and in these days there is no improvement that is one. And I remind you that the boatmen who drive the boats are merchants of death: unfortunately, in fact, thanks to this migration policy, the deaths of migrants in the Sicilian Canal have also increased. But that is obvious, if you pass the message that you start in any condition and then, however, there is someone who takes them. When we talk about human lives, I think we all regret knowing that, unfortunately, deaths have increased. Thanks to this migration policy, things will not change and positions will not be reversed. Our country will continue to be invaded, day by day, more and more. And you will not be able to give a decent life to people who deserve it and who come to improve the conditions of their lives and that of their family, and we will also make the safety of our fellow citizens worse. This is the Italy you are drawing: thank God, soon we will vote, and I believe that the Italians will decide that the country they want for them is completely different. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u21	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Ilaria Alpi" in Ladispoli, in the province of Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u22	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have long worked in the Joint Committees on Constitutional Affairs and Justice on this text, which has to do with the lives of desperate people. It is good to clarify this after the speeches we have heard in the last few minutes. And it is good to clarify it in front of the young students of our schools that will be the future of our country. How desperate can a mother, a pregnant young woman be to face the sea on a dinghy or, worse, to put an unaccompanied minor on it alone? Which one of us would put his child in this condition, in the hands of unscrupulous people, to save him from despair? We are working on this, and we have reflected on this with some of our colleagues in the Joint Commissions: I am thinking of my colleagues, Mr Manconi and Mr Lo Giudice. We are examining a decree-law dealing with two issues: international protection and the fight against illegal immigration. In particular, article 10- bis of the Single Text of the provisions concerning the regulation of immigration and the rules on the condition of the foreigner (of which we know legislative texts of 1988 and 2009) introduced in our law the crime of illegal entry and residence in the territory of the State - what is called a crime of illegal immigration - punished with a fine from 5,000 to 10,000 euros. Article 2 of Law No 67 of 2014 provides a delegation to the Government for the reform of the sanctioning system of offences. Among the principles and guiding criteria for the exercise of this delegation is expressly provided for the repeal of the crime of illegal entry and residence, with its transformation into an administrative offence, while maintaining criminal importance of the conduct of violation of the administrative measures adopted in this matter. Therefore, no one can fail to comply with the administrative measures already taken. The decriminalization of this crime, however, is asked in particular by the magistrates. It must be said that the delegation has not yet been implemented. Even the national prosecutor anti-Mafia and anti-terrorism, Franco Roberti, specifies that the available data show that the prediction of the crime of illegal immigration in our legal system has so far had no deterrent effect on irregular immigration. In fact, very often, it was an obstacle to the investigation. The same Minister of Justice, Andrea Orlando, during the hearing at the Senate's Constitutional Affairs Committee in July 2015 stated that the crime of illegal immigration had limited, or even nothing, effectiveness in terms of deterrence and that flows did not diminish due to the threat or risk of sanctions. On the other hand, the repeal of the crime of illegal immigration - says our Guardasigilli - will not only lead to savings in terms of judicial and administrative resources, but will also have positive effects for the effectiveness of investigations in the field of aiding and trafficking of migrants. We have approved an agenda in Joint Committees 1a and 2a, with which we have asked for appropriate measures to be taken to decriminalise the offence of entry and residence in the territory of the State. We come to another part of the work, which has always been done in the Commission, in particular in conjunction with my colleagues Mr Manconi and Mr Lo Giudice. With them, we have dealt with Article 17 of the text before us, which contains a number of provisions for the identification of foreign nationals who have been found in the position of irregularities on national territory or who have been rescued in the course of rescue operations at sea. The hypothesis is to add an article, which should be 10-b, within the Single Text of the provisions concerning the discipline of immigration and norms of the conditions of the foreigner, referred to in Legislative Decree n. 286 of 1998. It is expected, in particular, that the foreigner who has irregularly... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, you have to finish. CIRINNA' (PD). Mr President, I was told by the Group that I had extra minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I had five marked, and I gave him one more. CIRINNA' (PD). Thank you. I'll need at least three more. Now he's even made me lose it. The hypothesis, for identification points, is to have more specific rules that pay attention to certain issues, because we are not talking about lost bags, parcels or bureaucratic practices. We're talking about people in need. We are talking about regulating the speediest procedures for applying for asylum and expulsions. We'll make bilateral agreements. We are talking about people who are uncomfortable: if you are an irregular migrant, you are still a person in need; if you are a person seeking international protection, you are even more so. In both cases on the trafficking of vulnerable people and we need to understand if they have special needs. And needs can be related to gender identity. They may be mistreated women or persecuted for political or religious reasons. The staff who will have to work in the centres do not know who is facing them, they do not know what the need for delicacy those people have. I would like to make one last point - President, thank you - to a case just happened at the Center for Identification and Ejection (CIE) in Brindisi, where a young Brazilian transsexual woman, for simply losing her residence permit having lost her job, was held in the male arm for eight days. She had to go on a hunger strike to ask to be moved to where women are held. The issues concerning the identity of people certainly create additional situations of discomfort. I thank Minister Minniti and even more the associations that took charge of the tragedy that that woman was experiencing for having temporarily resolved the issue. But all this will also have to be regulated well for the future, because we are dealing with people who have been uncomfortable and who probably cannot be welcomed without looking at their individual situation. What happened in Brindisi must no longer occur. Mr President, I would ask the Presidency to allow me to hand over the rest of my speech. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u24	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so. Bianconi (AP-CpE). No, he intervenes later. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm sorry, but I'm not in the Chair to handle what you're doing right now. If I have a list, I respect it and allow the time required by the Groups. Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u25	Mr President, this decree-law is part of the line of those of the renziana bill: robotics in intentions and chaotic and unconstitutional proof of the facts. You wanted to tackle the immigration problem, but - let us be honest - you did it with the usual electoral haste: in essence, in a few months you would like to solve the problems you have ignored for years, with an eye to the far-right electorate. If for years you have defended the judiciary, today you replace it, not only by altering the law, but even by changing the degrees of judgment at your liking. So, if together with Lega Nord, Forza Italia and Gruppetti various in Parliament you have entered a fourth degree of judgment, saving Minzolini from the fate to which it was destined by the Severino law, with the migrants you have proved less indulgent, removing a degree of judgment. For your associates enter degrees of judgment, suspend the law and reinvent procedures as you please; while for migrants, sacrificial lamb of electoral campaigns, remove them, suspending constitutional guarantees. We have always told you that the problem must be addressed at the origin, cooperating with the countries of origin with return agreements, encouraging above all the voluntary repatriation that, in fact, to the Italian State costs less of an indeterminate reception and any other procedure of expulsion, even of the crime of clandestineness, agitated by the North League as a scare to show to migrants who, after having crossed the Sahara, Libya and the Mediterranean, should then be afraid of a crime that puts them in prison for a few months, with consequent clogging of the penitentiary institutions and a disproportionate increase in costs, without this producing in itself any obvious benefit. The failure of the agreement with the puppet al-Sarraj - you will forgive me for the unfortunate comparison, but this is what it is - does not make us advance from this point of view. A government that fails in terms of cooperation agreements on return would instead want to redeploy itself with a heavy and unjustified lowering of the constitutional guarantees to the foreign citizen, creating a sort of special right in matters that concern the fundamental principles of equal dignity and equality of all people. It is a discriminatory process that today is applied to migrants and that could be applied to Italian citizens tomorrow, perhaps to streamline judicial proceedings. We are at the paradox, at the creation of legal walls that will sooner or later hit Italian citizens and that bring out a serious contradiction of the European Left: on the one hand we criticize Trump for the management of migratory flows in the United States; on the other we act worse than Trump, destroying the guarantees of the liberal state with the claim to act in his defence. It is a shameful and unworthy short political and legal circuit for our democracy. You have no legitimacy to legislate on this issue for three reasons: the first is that in three years of Renzi Government you did not want to address the issue, leaving everything as it was and making you engage in continuous scandals on the management of reception centers. Secondly, you do not have any kind of support from those involved in the migration phenomenon, i.e. from associations, municipalities, from the organizations of the magistrates who consider this decree-law to be destructive and dangerous. Thirdly, with the exchange vote last week based on the principle that "I save you Lotti and you save me Minzolini," you not only introduced a fourth degree of judgment, that of Parliament, but you have once again demonstrated, all together, that you are chaste, that you have contempt for the law and that you are unable to legislate for the good of the country. We are faced with yet another useless measure, which will not pass the examination of the Constitutional Court and will end the Italicum, the Law of Midia and the constitutional reform with which you have held this country blocked for two years. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that the country deserves better but, judging by the level of this self-referential political class, it will not take long to eliminate your nefariousness. Let us go to the elections and close this shameful page of Italian democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u26	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u27	Mr President, this measure contains some positive aspects in improving the expulsion procedure. Although there is some improvement on this aspect, which perhaps will lead - I think it is a very optimistic estimate - to have a thousand more expulsions per year, we assist day by day to a arrival of rescued and recovered people at sea far greater than that of the first months of 2016, the year in which the record of 2015, when the number of arrivals had already increased compared to 2014. This is a situation that cannot be seen in the end, nor the possibility of a viable solution, but above all no solution is proposed by the Government. In the face of this bland measure, which may allow a thousand people to be expelled, we have a number of situations that are not dealt with at all. Another statement by the Italian Government is that other European countries must also host migrants. We are talking about the great problem of Hungary, which should accommodate about 700 people, according to calculations decided by someone who is neither the Hungarian nor the Italian people. And 700 people should touch - you don't understand why - Hungary. Then, would the problem be solved by applying 700 or 400 people to Hungary as well? I remember that last year, according to official data, 181,000 people entered in this way. And that doesn't mean there were 181,000 immigrants, because the immigrants were many, but many more. It's just the ones that came through the boat route. And these are the solutions that are being proposed. Just yesterday, in celebrating sixty years from the Treaties of Rome, the President of the Republic of Mattarella recalled a very simple fact: today Africa has about one billion inhabitants and, at the current rate of growth, this number should double over the next twenty-five years. Since many of those countries are already suffering from serious and enormous deficiencies today, where many people, especially children, daily struggle against hunger and die of hunger or organic weakness, is the solution then to import into Europe? And in particular to import in Italy that, thanks to the policies of the Government, in the first three months of 2017 had more than 80% of all immigrants, refugees or presumed such of all Europe? About 85% of new arrivals in Europe this year occurred in Italy. So what do we do? Will the billion more Africans (supernumerary) in the next twenty-five years be brought to Europe, of which 800 million in Italy (80 percent) and 200 million in other countries? Is that the solution? And the solution lies in the fact that perhaps we expel 1,000 of them or are we able to apposite 700 of them to the Hungarian people? Frankly, that does not seem to me to be the solution. Only Nigeria, one of the countries from which comes a very significant percentage of migrants coming to Italy, every year increases its population of 2,800,000 people and I repeat: "every year." Do we welcome them to Italy? Or even just - it is said - 80% of the extra Nigerians we welcome in Italy? And let's not talk about all the rest of Africa. But then we read some really amazing things, of which no one deepens the door. Within the very recent arrivals - several thousand new immigrants arrived in one day - many come from Bangladesh. Beyond India, Pakistan and beyond Iran, those people, who would be much closer to Japan or even to the extremes of the American continent, come from Bangladesh to Italy. Action should then be taken in the countries of origin. With the money with which we keep 100 people who arrive in our country and are then received in all the ways we know, we could save many thousands of lives in Africa, including all those who do not have the 2,000, 3,000 or 4,000 euros to give to the hullers, with whom we finance terrorism or other unclean traffic. Those should be helped: it would cost much less and we could build long-term realities in Africa. But we don't: we invest everything in recovering people just a few kilometers from Libya. Yesterday I presented to the Commission some agendas, signed by all the members of the Forza Italia Group, with which the Government is asked to commit itself, beyond the text of the measure. What were you wondering about those agendas, which were all rejected? I quote one not ours, but signed by Senator Calderoli and other colleagues of the Northern League, who asked to take appropriate steps to identify foreigners who are staying illegally in Italy. The Government's opinion was against and the majority voted in accordance with, Rejecting it. Patience for those who stay irregularly in Italy. There was no talk of legality. So much has been said about legality. But does legality apply only to someone? An agenda signed by me and other Senators of the Forza Italia Group intended to commit the Government to deal with those organizations that - according to the denunciation of the international Frontex body - collaborate and are conniving with the hullers and are complicit in the trafficking of human goods that causes thousands of deaths. The agenda was rejected by the Government and the majority. We have asked that we stick to the area of intervention provided for by Operation Triton, which should be binding on Italy. This agenda was also rejected. Another agenda asked the Government to work to ensure that not all migrants who are recovered in the Mediterranean were taken to Italy. This seems basic: when a ship is Danish, Dutch or German it is the territory of the respective country and, therefore, it is right that migrants be taken to Denmark, Holland and Germany. On the contrary, migrants are all brought to Italy, due to part of certain agreements and part of the passivity of the Italian Government. The opinion on the agenda was against, as if it meant that we want them all in Italy. In the face of these prospects there is really to be wondering what the Government's understanding is. I would like to conclude by recalling another agenda, which was rejected, with which the Government was asked to plan and study - so it should not have done so immediately - measures to ensure that every Italian family with a minor has aid equal to a quarter of the cost of a refugee asylum seeker or immigrant (let's call it what we want). The agenda has been rejected: an Italian is not worth a quarter of a foreigner. For this reason, we find ourselves in the situation where in Italy the population difference between Italians and foreigners falls every day by 1,600 people. It is as if every four days an Italian municipality of medium size became a foreigner. If this is the perspective that we want to offer, undoubtedly the measure under consideration goes in that direction, which is wrong, because against Italians and our civilization, which - thanks to how it is and to the well-being that it has earned - can help foreigners, but not all, otherwise we end up like the countries from which those same people come. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u29	Mr President, the decree-law that we are about to convert deals with the extraordinary migratory pressure that we have before us and that above all we must be able to govern better and better. It has been said that the numbers of migrants who risk their lives to reach our country are shocking and constantly increasing. In 2013, asylum applications amounted to 26,620 and in 2016 to 123,600. In 2017 the number is in strong increase: only in the first months, 15,844 migrants arrived in Italy by sea, 74 percent more than in the same period last year. The constant increase in flows, and consequently in demands for international protection, is of course worrying. We have seen that until now the territorial commissions have been in great difficulty in sorting questions and organizing returns for irregular migrants. This fact should not surprise us: the instruments available were - and the decree-law under consideration puts forward these aspects - inadequate to deal with such a large number of people. Let me say that I value overall positive the rules contained in the decree-law, which assumes the commitment to reduce the times of the applications and to make the taking charge of migrants to be allocated to the forms of reception provided, from relocation to forced repatriation. We know that this decree-law is not a decisive recipe - if anything there was one - because different policies, different interventions, different international policies are needed. The decree-law in our examination is nothing more than an adjustment of the legislative framework and of the policies that we must achieve, knowing that they are multiple and traceable to great strands of intervention such as the one repeatedly mentioned aimed at avoiding the departure of people especially from the Libyan and African coasts, such as readmission agreements that can allow to accompany back - in many cases even against their will - immigrants who are not entitled to a residence permit for humanitarian reasons. In addition, more investment is needed in the countries from which immigrants come and greater international cooperation. These and other actions represent the major policies which, of course, must also have other places of legislative direction where they can be developed even better. In part, they are measures that can already be found today, with this legislative framework, adjustments and implementations through the acts of government. The Decree-Law focuses, in particular, on judicial procedures, under which the legitimacy of applications for protection submitted to part of asylum seekers is assessed, and in some ways aims to streamline those which have undoubtedly proved to be excessively cumbersome. The simplification of procedures cannot, however - and the work done in the Commission certainly confirms this - call into question in any way the fundamental rights that must be recognised in the name of respect for the human person, but also the many international treaties that protect migrants. The other rather important issue that is addressed is how to exercise restraint, also in this case, respectful of the rights and dignity of the persons in custody, if one is faced with persons who have committed past crimes in court and for whom an expulsion procedure is provided through forced accompaniment. This further issue is addressed through an intelligent vision, i.e. with a coating of return centers, through smaller structures that can allow greater effectiveness, but also greater respect for the lives of people in custody. These are basically the challenges of this decree-law, which seems to be identified as positively addressed. 11:09 a.m. (Follow CONTE). In a logic of completing immigration policies, we need to focus not only on proper management of flows, also with regard to the need to avoid forms of invasion, but also on a policy of managing presences and new arrivals. We are, in fact, faced not with an invasion, but with a phenomenon that can return - and has already returned - strongly useful to our economy and our communities. Let's think about the many works that are carried out also in place of those once realized by the Italians and that now the Italians themselves struggle to accept to carry out. Precisely because of this wealth that immigration is bringing to our country, we must be able to welcome new arrivals in the most effective, most attentive and most promotional way. I also welcome the strengthening of the territorial committees, financially in the specialization of staff and number, as well as the formation of specialised sections with regard to the courts. I believe that priority, fundamental and positive is the fact that in every Region of Italy a court of appeal has been established specifically dedicated to the disposal of decision-making appeals by migrants. The Joint Commissions have approved amendment 110000 (text 2), which is entirely a replacement for Article 1. The amendment, which has been reworded taking account of the remarks made by the Budget Committee, proposes an extension of the number of sections, providing for them to be set up in the ordinary courts of the place where the appeal court is situated. This enlargement does not entail additional burdens or the need for staff increases, as human, financial and instrumental resources available under existing legislation must be provided for. The establishment of specialised sections, as set out in the report, responds to the need to ensure greater speed for judicial appeals in the field of immigration, in view of the significant increase in requests for international protection in the years 2013-2016 as a result of the exceptional influx of migrants. The exponential increase in requests to the territorial committees resulted in an equally exponential increase in the number of appeals in the courts of administrative decisions, which concerned in particular some districts of court of appeal. The 14 courts (identified for the purpose of setting up the specialised sections) have been selected on the basis of data relating to the number of applications for international protection examined in the last two years by each territorial commission or seconded section. The provision of specialised sections is not new in the Italian procedural order. In fact, the second paragraph of Article 102 of the Constitution states that specialised sections may be set up for certain matters, including the participation of suitable citizens outside the judiciary. Among the specialised judges togati are the working sections established in the courts and the court of appeal, for all labour disputes and social security, as well as, more recently, the so-called business courts, specialised sections established in the courts and the court of appeal with seat in the capital of each region with competence in the matter of enterprise. Thus - for example - a Region such as Friuli-Venezia Giulia, first burdened by substantial migratory flows deriving from the so-called Adriatic-Baltic corridor, was initially to have the specialized court closest to Venice, also called to cover the jurisdiction of the whole Triveneto (Trentino, Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia). Obviously this fact would have been dysfunctional, precisely because of the high number of transits of migrants and the not indifferent distances between the centers for the repatriation and Venice. It is therefore a good thing that the Commission has also taken the matter up and increased the number of such courts to 26. For the training of magistrates who wish to acquire a particular specialisation in this field, the organisation of training courses by the High School of the judiciary, in collaboration with the European Asylum Support Office, established by Regulation (EU) No 439/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 May 2010 and the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, is envisaged. It is a preferential title, for the purpose of the assignment to the sections, to have already been involved in the handling of immigration proceedings for at least two years, to have participated in the training courses organized by the High School of the judiciary, or to have a particular competence in this matter, for other reasons. Secondly, it is good for the Ministry to increase the number of specialized staff in closer contact with migrants, such as interpreters who, after specific training, can make a significant contribution to the knowledge of the status and needs of incoming migrants. I also find useful the definition that the decree-law has given of the times of permanence of irregular migrants within the specialized structures, and therefore also the simplification of the times of expulsion. The training courses of the magistrates include specific sessions dedicated to the evaluation of the tests, including the techniques for conducting the interview. The knowledge of the English language, as originally provided for in the text, is also positively assessed. Following the work in the Commission, knowledge of French has also been added as a preferential title for easily intuitive reasons: French and English are the languages mainly spoken by immigrants and their knowledge allows for a more direct relationship between those who will have to interrogate and examine those people and those concerned. In addition, in order to ensure the continuing training of section magistrates, it was provided that, in the three years following the assignment to the section, judges should participate, at least once a year, in vocational training sessions. In the following years, however, they are obliged to take part, at least once every two years, in vocational refresher courses. From this it is evident the great attention that the Government has wanted to devote to this category of magistrates who have to deal with a sensitive matter. Predicting an extremely high level of specialization also allows us to predict that these sections will have judges of particularly high competences, who will be able to face the problems that in everyday life are presenting themselves today in the relationship with immigrants. The basic aspects were dealt with by the Commissions and 2nd meeting, seeking to find a solution to the four issues which arose in the course of the debate. In particular, the first node was the number of seats, while the second great theme was the audience of the magistrate after the first interview that is held in the territorial commissions. The problem was resolved following a great confrontation with the oppositions and it was decided that the judge could not only always arrange the hearing to listen to the interested party, as was already provided in the original text of the decree-law, but also, in particular cases, actually arrange the hearing. In conclusion, this is a necessary measure which covers the needs of rapidity with the protection of human rights and I therefore strongly hope that it will be adopted rapidly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u30	Mr President, the decree-law we are debating today is a serious attempt to speed up international protection proceedings and to review the law against illegal immigration. In fact, it renews it on certain points, which have also been significantly improved during its work in the Commission, such as the establishment of sections, the strengthening of territorial commissions, the discipline of administrative notification activities, the provision of the possibility of applicants for international protection to participate in activities of social utility, changes in the matter of permit for humanitarian reasons and of international protection in the case of residence permits and the recognition of protection recognised by two different EU Member States. However, there is a set of very important topics that would have required and still require urgent and profound measures to revise an unsatisfactory regulatory framework that remains unchanged: I am referring to fundamental issues such as the regulation of hot spots, the former CIEs now renamed centers of permanence for return, and the discipline of regular flows. On these issues the measure intervenes only on specific, marginal aspects, while a profound rethink would be necessary based on an examination of the limits of the current situation, rethinking that should be facilitated by data and news to be made available to the Senate in order to facilitate its parliamentary initiative. I would like to dwell on the important issues neglected by the decree-law: we need a rationalization of the reception system and I am referring in particular to the discipline of hot spots, for which it is not only necessary to monitor the administrative action carefully, for example through the definition and the respect of the standards to be guaranteed throughout the national territory, but also a regulatory intervention since the rules of reference have been prepared with the law Puglia of 1995, in a context in which immigration did not appear with the structural elements that we know today and therefore followed an emerging approach. Similarly, a reflection requires the condition of the former CIE, just as it was photographed by the report produced and updated in January 2017 by the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights of the Senate. This sometimes results in a dramatic situation, aggravated by the scandals that continue to be recorded in relation to the custody of the management of the centres. In this case, too, a double level of intervention is required: at the administrative level, on which something is being done (the Minister of the Interior, with the collaboration of ANAC, has in fact prepared a standard contract), but also on the level of regulatory review. It is necessary to clarify better who enters the new centres, what are the conditions in which people must be detained, what monitoring must be carried out to prevent the recurrence of the phenomenon of inhuman treatments that have sometimes occurred. In short, the change of name from centers of identification and expulsion to centers of permanence for the returns requires a radical change of perspective, which the decree-law, on the other hand, unfortunately has not even begun. Finally, but not least in importance, the blockade of regular immigration has proved ineffective in stopping the arrival in Italy of economic migrants; it exposes, therefore, people who flee from poverty and hunger to enormous sacrifices and risk of life in order to seek better living conditions for themselves and for their families. The relevant legislation must therefore be radically rethought, for example by thinking of circular migration agreements, for example by favouring the regular entry of people with greater employability opportunities. This is accompanied by the enormous problem, to be solved, linked to the presence in Italy of 435,000 irregulars, whose applications for asylum have expired or are in the process of being. These invisibles are the main pool of labor for organized crime, for black labor and for the extremism we call religious. The first thing to do is to make them visible; for this reason we must immediately abolish the crime of illegal entry and residence (so-called crime of clandestineness), as we have tried to do from this point of view with an amendment by our entire MDP Group, which has been declared inadmissible by the Commission. The law on non-convict prison sentences and on the reform of the sanctioning system, which contains provisions on the suspension of the procedure with the test and against the irretrievable (Law No 67 of 2014), brought to Article 2 a delegation to the Government for the reform of the sanctioning system of the crimes. Among the principles and guiding criteria for the exercise of the delegation there was also the repeal of the crime of illegal entry and residence, transformed into an administrative offence. Legislative Decree No. 7 of 2016 implementing this law has not, however, foreseen the repeal of the crime. It was a mistake of the previous Government not wanting to proceed with the elimination of this crime, which proved useless and harmful. It is urgent to remedy this error and not to do so in this decree-law was to miss an opportunity. It is also necessary to create new opportunities for these invisibles, for example by providing - as Emma Bonino has suggested - the possibility of a residence permit for proven integration and a temporary job search permit; a useful proposal to promote the emergence of illegal immigrants and to combat the seasonal caporalate. I would like to conclude with a general remark. We want to welcome: with these simple words a month ago, on February 18, some hundreds of thousands of people gathered in Barcelona to say enough to the walls and xenophobia; a plural and spontaneous demonstration, a democratic and popular challenge to nationalism and the right. Even in Italy we are ready to accept this challenge. We also have a moral duty to accept reception policies, because in the condition of those who emigrate from wars, poverty and climate disasters we recognize a suffering humanity, which we cannot remain indifferent to. What worries us most is the constant combination between the need for security and fear, when not criminalization, towards foreigners. On the contrary, we think that the right need for security is primarily guaranteed by integration policies. For this reason, too, the issue of the recognition of citizenship and, therefore, the approval of ius solo is at the top of the commitments we are asking ourselves and this Parliament. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u31	Our work is being followed by the students and teachers of the college "Villoresi San Giuseppe" in Monza, whom we greet and thank for their presence. [[Applause]] Some Albanian MEPs are also attending our work. We greet the delegation visiting Rome and Italy, with the typical friendship of our peoples. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u32	Senator Fattorini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u33	Mr President, I would like to speak on two points: the first concerns the general framework, which is of a historical-political nature, on immigration; the second concerns certain specific aspects relating to the powers of the Commission for Foreign Affairs to which I belong. Some general considerations concern, in my opinion, the importance that immigration has in the two great phenomena that characterize the crisis of globalization today and that is the intersection, which can become perverse (as we have seen so many times in history) between a generically understood populism, which is not referring to the people, but to the degeneration of the fears that the people have, which are also right and to which answers must be given, therefore a populism that arises directly from an ever deeper and pervasive discomfort, due to the economic crisis, and a populism of nationalist, protectionist matrix, which we would now call sovereignist-nationalist. These two populisms, in history, have had a very dangerous impact: let us think of the disastrous outcome of the Weimar crisis, which led to Nazism, in which these two populisms found a great unity, born on one side of the left, often with a catastrophic outcome, even if it had a so to speak progressive origin, which tried to meet the real needs of the economic crisis and, on the other, a need for security and protection of the borders that arose from the fear of the invasion of the other, which was then identified in the Jew, but in any case of the foreigner and the different. This is what was dramatically called Blut und Boden (blood and soil), for this reason the intervention that preceded me strongly agrees on the need and urgency to solve the problem of ius soli, that is, the recognition of the right of those born in a territory and not only of those who belong to it for reasons of blood, tradition and roots. Blut is the blood and Boden is the earth, the ground. These are needs inherent in the human soul, which historically return, not only in the last two centuries, but also before, and are real needs. It's all about seeing what answers we can give. The emigration crosses these fears, it seems almost the phenomenon that most can give echo and also the most perverse response to these who are real problems, to this double fear. Immigration in our era has become - and will be more and more, for so long - an endemic fact, which concerns the period and the epoch, but also geography, because it is global. It must always be remembered that it is not only about Italy and Europe, it is about huge quantities of people who emigrate, move, are persecuted and invade for economic reasons and political persecution. Of these migrations historically the Mediterranean was the cradle and the heart, we studied it in schools as a phenomenon of bridge, the Mediterranean so loved by Braudel, as the cradle of civilization, but we often forget to remember that it was also an opportunity of dangerous invasions, that should not be denied, so we are not the first to face them. The fears we now have are disproportionate, however, we always say, if we think of the numbers that are significant and important, but that can be faced and that are not however proportionate to the fears that trigger. The Mediterranean, therefore, as a place of bridge, but also of conflicts and invasions, a basin of which our country is bridge and center, has always been a mixture of traditions that brings us back to the theme of identity: as in all mixings, actually identity is at risk. We see this from the demographic decline that is even higher in our country than in other European countries, which is all to say, and from the fact that many fear that this will be compensated with the children of first and second generation immigration. Another fear related to the theme of identity is that of fatigue, as we have also seen in the most advanced experiments on this ground, of integration, as in the French model, where banlieues are the very concrete expression of a very heavy social discomfort, which is certainly not the only element, nor the one really triggering in the depths, although it has certainly contributed to conveying terrorism in its first devastating exits in France. So there are economic reasons for not social integration, but, as we have always said, there is also the lack of a culture that can produce this integration. As MPs in the Mediterranean and as OSCE, we have done a lot of work on this point to see how the dimension of interreligious and intercultural dialogue can really help to achieve integration that is not just economic, but is certainly the basis. In short, it is all about what helps to avoid what is badly defined - but that is true - as a clash of civilizations. We have tried to know, as the OSCE and as the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly, also the moderate and non-radical Imams, which contribute to the formation of our Muslim citizens. I mean, what does all this lead to? To the need for a new multiculturalism, in the face of the crisis of globalization: the old one, which we knew until the 1980s, has transformed and has changed; what no longer works are the two extremes, that is, on the one hand, the aspects we define as politically correct, the easiest and abstract ones, so everything is fine and we are all equal, in the same cultural, religious and moral dimension, and, on the other hand, those who, with a decidedly racist system, see in the other an absolute enemy. These two extremes no longer work, if ever they have, and risk reproduction in the most caricature and violent forms. Now, to conclude, by entering the second part of the speech, in the direction of the answers which, as the Foreign Affairs Committee, we consider very satisfactory on the part of this measure, I would like to mention two aspects. With regard to the competence of the foreign dimension, we have seen above all a conformity with the provisions of international law on the protection of asylum seekers and other rules on the protection of human rights, especially those contained in the United Nations Convention on the Status of Refugees of 1951. The rules on freedom, security and fair trial, as we have also heard in previous speeches, which correspond, among others, to Articles 5 and 6 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and those on the right to an effective remedy to an impartial court, including Article 47 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, appear to be in conformity with international law in the field of human rights. In this sense, it would be desirable for the judges assigned to the specialised sections of the courts to be subject to training and updating procedures on the geopolitical conditions of the countries of origin of asylum seekers and on other humanitarian protection measures by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Organisation for Migration. I would also like to point out that recently the Human Rights Commission here in the Senate and many other non-governmental organisations, as is also apparent from the sessions of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the system of reception, identification and expulsion, established in the Chamber of Deputies, want the establishment of a legal and regulatory framework of primary rank, for the carrying out of the procedures provided for in the approach of the so-called hotspots, centres for the identification and collection of fingerprints. In fact, it is a question of ensuring that these structures are fully complied with, as far as the time of detention of foreign citizens within them is concerned, with our principles of legal civilization, and on this there is a clarification that convinces us. Finally, again with regard to the competence of our Commission, with regard to the individual articles of the device, we highlight what, within the scope of the specification measures, establishes an aspect that may seem secondary, but that in the context of international diplomacy is very important, namely the increase of ten units of the contingent of local staff of diplomatic and consular offices on the African continent for the needs of strengthening the network, in close connection with the current emergency in the field of immigration. This is a provision which, albeit partially, meets the need for greater attention to Africa and the migratory dynamics that our Foreign Affairs Commission has repeatedly called for. With this I would like to conclude precisely on Africa, which is not secondary in this measure, not only because it is close and it is a bridge, but because it really represents, symbolically and also concretely, the problem: the problem for us Europe and the problem that sees all the considerations that I made at the beginning of my reasoning. An Africa that sees doubling by a billion population growth in the face of our continuous décalage. Therefore, I find that on this too, as an international policy and as a policy of cooperation, the integration between the issue of security and immigration and a focus on political and geopolitical action to Africa is strategic for all and is a guiding thread of political intervention. And having chosen Libya as an interlocutor on this new course of immigration is, in my opinion, one of the many merits to be valorized. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lumia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are also very different cultural and political approaches around this decree-law. At the bottom of this diversity we can find who considers immigration at the time of globalisation a problem and others, instead, who, like me, consider it a resource. The conflict is open and so it will remain, who knows for how long. In every advanced democracy we are wondering about this dilemma. Conflict is often instrumental. It is often used to conceal the structural limitations of all political actors. Of course, populist movements direct the approach that immigration sees only a problem to collect an electoral consensus that, otherwise, would hardly be able to attract. Those like me who, on the other hand, consider immigration a resource of course must pay attention to the extent of the flows, which however grow and are consistent, for example in our country. There are fears and real problems that must not be demonized. If anything, they must be governed. But even those who consider immigration a problem must be confronted with the fact that it is an unstoppable, historical, global phenomenon. For them too, it is necessary to call to government responsibility rather than to the exercise of demonization. In Italy, ladies and gentlemen, we have the memory to find the right balance between problem and resource. The honest Italian who migrated to the United States was often considered a problem. Instead, the Mafioso Italian was welcomed as a resource. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have known the history of our emigration abroad. I have mentioned the most significant we have ever known, the one towards the United States. A tragic mistake, which moved honest Italians, Sicilians, Calabrians, Campanians and Venetians, often mistreated, even in their dignity, towards the protection of the mobsters. This is an error which we must not consume today with regard to immigrants arriving in Italy on our shores. Let me say without rhetoric that the honest immigrant, who seeks international protection on our coasts, is a brother, a sister, a child, a human being to be welcomed and integrated. Woe to conceal the humanity that accompanies their tragedy, their flight from wars, their despair. The dishonest immigrant who doesn't follow those routes is the problem. The immigrant who becomes a mobster, who becomes a criminal: the one who is to be hit and must be removed from our country. In the face of the dishonest immigrant democracy must be strong, rigorous and not vice versa, as is often the case. When, faced with a woman who is reduced to slavery, abused and raped, democracy becomes gloomy, cold and cynical, then we all lose, dear colleagues, both those who consider immigration a problem, and those who consider it a resource. That's why we all need to change our approach. We are all called to live this challenge with a different step. More interventions in the countries of origin? Yeah, that's all. More integration? Definitely, in our country. More Europe? Who could be against it? It is from the integration of these three factors that we will eventually find a common path, a shared hypothesis of work and we will be able to tackle this problem seriously. As far as integration into our country is concerned, all the experts tell us that the crime of illegal immigration has actually turned into a hoax, creates only problems and clogged only our courts. It is in no way capable of giving an answer to those who see immigration as a problem - in my view in the wrong way. Perhaps instead we should focus on the adoption of a law that recognizes the ius soli, because the modern citizenship that integrates is the best solution. It is the one that prevents the other from being considered a threat; it is the one that ensures that the other participates in the life of our society and our democracies and that we can avoid what is happening in Europe. I am also referring to the second and third generations who, in the end, have actually felt culturally foreign to our cultural life, to our values and, often, have turned into labour for terrorism. Let us not make this mistake; let us not close to the prospect of integration. We need more Europe, more quotas and more resources. More quotas are needed to share the inevitable need for a reception dimension. Europe plays with Italy; it must not be clever and cynical, giving in theory availability when in practice we have not yet seen it. Then there is the weight of the investments that ours and the other countries, for their geographical characteristics, are called to bear in terms of reception with reference to migratory flows. More interventions in the countries of origin? Of course, in Africa we must intervene with massive investments. We must consider those investments as a resource for Europe and our societies, because they ensure that immigration is not as large as it is today. It is right that those women, children and men can have a chance of life and work in their territories. Those investments, which we must put together at international level, are kissed by the Lord, useful and positive and we all have to work together. Nor, in terms of interventions in the countries of origin, do I disdain repressive interventions by the international police. Colleagues, can we tolerate that in some African countries there are real lagers where human beings are crowded, deprived of any freedom and dignity? Can we passively accept, as was the case during World War II, those lagers on which even at that time he wandered, denied himself and minimized? We too have a present reality in these countries today. I am thinking of Libya and other countries where the paths and stages of immigration are concentrated, where those immigrants are often transformed into slaves, where trafficking is carried out continuously. Repressive and selective UN-led international police interventions must also find a place in this comprehensive and integrated strategy. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, there is no room for division, nor for instrumentally using a different approach to immigrants. 11:46 a.m. (Lumy followed). This decree-law seeks to improve the condition of reception in our country and at the same time intervenes on illegal immigration. It has been said that in the Commission justice here in the Senate we have greatly improved the text and this has happened with the contribution of all the parliamentary groups, by majority and opposition. We in the Democratic Party have also tabled amendments and we have been concerned about making this text constitutionally sound, because the guarantees for the weak and exposed people as immigrants are never too many. In the Commission, we have helped to improve the positive choice made by the Government to set up specialised sections dealing specifically with disputes, which are called upon to rule on the right of protection and asylum. This is, therefore, a shared choice that we have already known in our legal mechanism, such as the family and business sections that we are setting up. In the Commission we discussed the number of courts to allocate the specialised sections; the Government in the Decree-Law provided for 14 of them: for example in Sicily there were sections specializing only in the courts of Palermo and Catania and that of Caltanissetta was excluded. I have tabled amendments, so other Members have done, and in the end the right and balanced decision has prevailed to keep the 26 courts in the courts of appeal standing. It seems to me that this is the most balanced and most responsive decision to the need to cover the whole territory and to avoid that there can be territories without a judge who is qualified, well trained, prepared and specialized. Ladies and gentlemen, we have also improved a number of constitutional guarantee points to ensure that defence and contradiction are not brought to bear by the lovers of guarantee only for Italian citizens, while the poor immigrant is given the bad culture that is not guaranteed. We have therefore worked to improve the hearing, the collegiality, the video recording and we have demanded a greater qualification of the magistrates; moreover, when faced with the need to have and to share procedures more streamlined and faster, we have made sure that this happens in the full exercise of the guarantees. Similarly, we have made sure that there are more people and more qualified people in the committees, which are the first core of the assessment of the request for protection and the right to asylum. We will now be called upon to face a challenge in the concrete realization of the overcoming of the CIEs and in the launching on new bases of the Centers of Stay for Return. Although our country has tried in every way to avoid it, in these contexts we have known too much human rights violations. For this reason, the decree-law under consideration is a good measure, which must be accompanied in reality and monitored in practice; I think that this choice, which in the end has been shared beyond the formal positions of majority and opposition that will be assumed in the Chamber, can qualify the parliamentary work and the intervention of the Senate. [[Applause from Senators Dirindin and The Judge.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u35	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u36	Madam President, I would like to start from the remarks that have just been made by the representative of the Democratic Party. The Forza Italia Group has addressed and is facing these two security measures with a constructive and positive spirit: the first is the security measures on cities, which has been examined by the House and which has now arrived in the Senate, the second is the decree-law on immigration in question. We have also, where possible and where there has been a possibility of listening, introduced more useful, more effective and better standards to improve the quality of these measures. I am thinking of the possibility of delayed arrest, which was included in the measure on safety in the cities by means of amendments tabled by the Forza Italia Group and which, of course, the rapporteur wanted to reword, so as not to show that an amendment by our Members was adopted; but the initiative was clearly linked to Forza Italia. We had the same attitude here in the Senate; however, listening was very poor and insufficient. I do not speak on the technical and legal aspects, which are better dealt with by Senator Caliendo in this House and dealt with in the Commission, where he represented the difficulties of shortening the procedure for examining asylum applications, which we share. Doing first to distinguish a refugee who has the right to asylum from a clandestine person is a fundamental aspect of better managing immigration policies. We share this shortening of the chain, but we felt that the appeal court was the proper seat for this examination and we supported this position with plenty of arguments; Senator Bernini, Senator Caliendo, Senator Palma and others in the gathering committees did so. But, apart from some technical adjustment on the number of suitable seats, there was no ability to listen to an assessment that was very well founded in legal terms and that we would invite the House to reconsider if there were no confidence in it. This is to say that we, in fact, have made a contribution of a certain kind, but it has not been heard and understood. Then this decree-law, which technically hurts what it does and which we would share as a principle, is above all lacking for what it does not do. We have tabled a number of amendments which have been considered inadmissible or inadmissible and which have been deleted, but which have concerned a whole range of issues. I think first of all of the permit to stay for humanitarian reasons, which is abused and which becomes the passepartout to keep anyone in Italy. Just as we contested some of the rules in a previous child measure, which was dealt with by Senator Rizzotti. We are for the respect of minors; but the recognition of minors by false minors and all possibilities for circumventing the legislation have been underestimated. We had asked for different ways to stop for identification and a longer period of time in terms of hours, but this too has been defined as even improbable. It has been said "no" to the establishment of the public register of the mosques and the register of the imams; and the news tells us how urgent it is to verify more carefully than those who want to exercise the constitutional right to their religious freedom and those who instead poison, with the preaching of Islamic fundamentalism, the cities of Italy and Europe. We have also rejected all our amendments to restrict the concept of protection for humanitarian reasons and many other rules to facilitate identification procedures. So we are absolutely dissatisfied with the modus operandi of the government and the majority. You see, a slightly more determined attitude is not enough - it took little, moreover, of the current Minister of the Interior than his predecessors to solve the problems. There is a truth in today's newspapers that we have long denounced: the ambiguous attitude of non-governmental organizations. The "Corriere della Sera" of today, but also other newspapers (even the "Facto Quotidiano" and "La Stampa" have been forced to take note of it. Yesterday in Parliament the Attorney of Catania Carmelo Zuccaro said the same things that we say, that non-governmental organisations do not carry out humanitarian action, but help the boatmen to bring illegal immigrants to Italy and Europe. This is what they are doing; if they do so with malice or do so by misreading their role, Catania's attorney is taking care of it. I would also like to say to the prosecutor Zuccaro, whom I mentioned, that we do not agree with him when he says that the boatman is blameless, because, poor, he acts under the compulsion of the trafficker of people. No, D.A., the scafist is part of the crime chain, which exploits people's desperation and gets rich, because these people pay for this kind of transit. So the prosecutor also tells an important truth, but then makes a frankly disarming assessment of this justification for the scafists. We have asked - President Paolo Romani has done so and I think that this decision will be taken - that the Senate of the Republic should summon these non-governmental organizations into our Commissions to understand what role they play. If Doctors without frontiers or other organizations have to help the poor, this is right and must also be supported; for this reason they make subscriptions, collected, there is the instrument of 5 per thousand. But if, in fact, these organizations have to go to the Libyan waters to help those who bring the people, they use dinghies destined to sail a few miles now, because they know so much that they do not have to cross the Mediterranean and the more departures there are, the more speculations there are, the more dead there are. So the non-governmental organizations feed, together with the weakness of the governments, first the Italian one, this massacre in the Mediterranean. Then there is the history of our migrants. I'm sorry you can't record the photographs: I show a picture of my grandfather, who, in the twenties-thirties, emigrated to America, was there a few years and this picture portrays him. He worked as a technician. And it is not true, Senator Lumia, that the immigrants were all in the hands of the Mafia because there was no help: there are people who went honestly abroad, honored Italy and then returned to our country where he raised their children and grandchildren with healthy values. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Giovanardi. Comments of Senator Lumia]] I quote a family case, to say that I am not hostile to the immigrant because we all have in our families, especially those who come from the South, these origins. On the Ellis Island website, accessible to all, all migrants were listed, with the name of the ship from which they landed and in the list there is also the name of my grandfather, with the indication of the ship and the date of arrival. So, there was also a way to identify and manage that immigration. Then, percentually, there must have been - alas - some Italians who did not honor their country, I know that too. In this regard, moreover, there is a debate whether it was the criminals who degenerated some Italians and the accusation of mafia is unfair and often a commonplace, so much so that yesterday, I think a Dutchman, gave an "allegorical" image of Italy, even for other reasons, and I even read this morning that a travel agency organizes the mafia tour in Sicily. We all know that in Italy there are dramatic and negative pages to fight, but it is wrong to give a denigratory image of Italy, which may have had its problems, but it also had Leonardo da Vinci, Guglielmo Marconi and Cristoforo Colombo, since we are talking about America. In conclusion, we believe that migratory flows are a fact of the history of humanity that all peoples have lived through. At present, however, the situation is not manageable, because we all know that today the excessive influx comes not only from the war zones, but also from sub-Saharan Africa and that the unstable situation of Libya facilitates these trafficking. We note the attempts to make international conferences. Also at the beginning of this week there was one, with representatives of Italy, Germany and other countries, as well as with the representative of Libya. I am not reopening the controversy about the right wars and the wrong wars, because as we have said several times in this House and as we will always remember, if today the country is so, it is because of the faults of those - the Sarkozys, the Obamas, the Clintons and even some senators for life in this House - who believed that the war in Libya was the first necessity of democracy. [[Applause from Senators Razzi and Rizzotti]] Let us see how difficult it is to manage the transition to democracy in countries that - alas - are struggling to get there. We believe that the decree-law under consideration, which fits into this situation, is an act of awareness that things could not go on as they were and are going on. Unfortunately, however, it is an answer, which is absolutely labile and weak, partly because there is no political attitude and it has been seen in these days. Minister Minniti has also been criticized from the left, because he wants to make centers, which are no longer called detention centers, but in another way, with 1,600 places. Senator Alicata, you come from Syracuse: how many people landed the day before yesterday in Augusta? We are talking about 1,600 people landed the day before yesterday and 7,000 in the last seventy-two hours, which are now around Italy. So, in the end, dear Minister Minniti, it is useless that he gets attacked for 1,600 places of detention when they run out in twenty-four hours. We therefore believe that the measure under consideration is insufficient and that Italy has welcomed and will welcome thousands of people, but also that we have exceeded the levels of guard. We believe that this policy of weakness has fostered international crime that even organizations that have a humanitarian purpose are - consciously or not (maybe the Attorney of Catania will respond to this) feeding these trafficking. The measure is technically lacking in what I said at the beginning about the lack of role of the appeals courts and the decisions you have taken, because it did not intervene more clearly on humanitarian treatment, which is often extended and abused. Much better could and had to be done. Confidence is, frankly, another mistake. I do not know the number of amendments, but I think it was in the order of 300-400 or perhaps less, and I do not understand why we can no longer discuss the measures by examining the amendments. There are expert parliamentarians here: Senator Colucci, how many times have measures been discussed with 200-300 amendments? So do we. We have had discussions with thousands of amendments, but I do not want to evoke them. Therefore, the invitation to the government is also not to be afraid of parliamentary discussion. I understand that majorities are now weak and every day a party, a parliamentary group, is founded: we come in the morning and we go out on the evening that other parties, other parliamentary groups have been born, with political consequences; alas, this is the time we live in. I believe, however, that we should not be afraid of the parliamentary debate, because in these classrooms there are competences and contributions that can improve the quality of the measures, while the confidence often worsens them, because it prevents that confrontation that we hope instead to make Italy safer, without racisms but also without the demagogies that you are feeding, even with the choices of these days. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u37	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u38	Madam President, let us see a moment of rewinding the tape, since it is said that history is a teacher of life, to understand how historically entire systems have been overwhelmed by the migratory phenomenon. I am referring to the Roman Empire, which, as you know, tried all of them to regulate this phenomenon. He did so through military force but also through an intelligent policy of integration, trying to assimilate and make Roman citizens, with all the chrisms of the advantages of Roman citizenship, those that came from areas where, then it was said, there were the "barbari" (barbari), so much so that, in some respects, this policy worked so much that the last great Roman generals Ezio and Stilicon were barbarians who had integrated themselves. Not everyone knows, but when Rome was plundered by the Goths, the area around Via dei Serpenti, the old Suburra, was spared, because those neighborhoods were entirely inhabited not by Latins, but - like the neighborhoods today inhabited by so-called non-EU citizens - by populations who came from Illyria, France or even by people who came from Germanic countries or the Goths. And I come to the topicality of our debate. Why was Rome plundered? Because the emperor brought in the Goths from across the Danube, pressed in their turn by Asian peoples who threatened their freedom, autonomy and life, and began the psychodrama of an entire population carried by the Romans beyond the Danube. Unfortunately, as is the case today, the inefficiency of the bureaucracy and the inequitable promises to this population forced her to rebel in some way. There was the famous battle of Adrianopolis and from there the barbarians, the Goths, penetrated into the empire not with the force of arms but through a process - alas, failed - of integration, assimilation, came to plunder Rome. I say this because, from a historical point of view, what happened in those centuries of crisis was not light. Then there was the arrival of the Longobards and in this regard I open a parenthesis: Salvini has a good saying and complains, but I with Bossi always joked remembering that I, Modenese, have as Saint San Giminiano, died in 396 after Christ; he made the council of Milan with Sant'Ambrogio, but Ambrogio and Giminiano were Romans and the Longobards arrived after 500, when the Roman Empire had already fallen; they were ugly, dirty and bad, they were the worst of the barbarians and then they became the Lombards of today. Now some historians - I see Sergio Zavoli, who delights in these things - say that we wouldn't even be in 2017 because in the years from 700 to 1100 in the chronologies were added two centuries that in reality there weren't, so there is darkness in the era of the Gothic-Byzantine war, so it was the decadence, for two-three centuries, of what was the Roman Empire. Of course, I note that today's Lombards are the direct successors of those who were the fiercest barbarians. There is, however, a non-secondary problem: the Longobards became Christians; the empire, even after the fall, through the function of the Church, unified Italy and the whole of Europe under the banner of classicism, saved from convents and a vision that was Christian. Today we have a phenomenon of exactly the same size as those of that time but we have one more problem: immigration is largely Muslim, therefore of populations with religion, ways of life, conception of women totally different from ours. And, as has been said several times this morning, there are tens or hundreds of millions of people who from Africa or other continents at this time would like to come to Europe. So the question to be asked, which I have heard in various ways, is: what must Europe and Italy do to try a serious policy of integration, different from that of the United States, which lasted one hundred, two hundred or three hundred years? These phenomena are in fact likely to be played in a very short time, in a handful of years. I listened to Mr Cociancich, who said something, in my opinion, disarming in his naivety, that we are all the same and that, as the Italians emigrated to America, Australia or Switzerland, so all Africans want to come to Italy. Senator Cociancich said that there would be a logical leap, on the part of those who think like me or like many other colleagues who have spoken: how to claim that it was right for Italians to emigrate to America and not to claim that it is just as right that millions of Africans come to Italy? To me the situations seem totally different, first of all because the Italians went to Switzerland or to the United States or to Australia through a rigorous mechanism of selection coming in, through regular visas, in a phenomenon that has spread for decades. It seems to me that this has nothing to do with the situation we are experiencing. Everyone says that migrants flee from war, but you have to be careful, because saying so, it seems that their countries have been attacked. Unfortunately, in African countries, the most usual phenomenon is that of civil wars: these are wars between them. This is what happens in Nigeria, between Muslims and Christians, and it is what happened between Hutu and Tutsi, in Rwanda, so much to involve in the massacres done with the machetes even pastors and nuns. The Hutu massacred the Tutsis for ancestral reasons: Africa is a terrible continent. For example, I have images, which cannot even be seen, because we see people massacred and burned live slowly, because they are Christians. These are really terrifying images, but at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs I was told that Africa is also this. So, from Africa come the victims, who must be protected, but they also come from cultures, who transfer tribal struggles to us. In our cities, in fact, it is not that among the various ethnic groups there is a great friendship. Here the divisions, which may be overcome over the centuries, but which currently constitute a real risk, are felt and re-proposed. It is enough to see the European chronicle, which testifies to the view that, in Britain or France, the problem could have been solved through situations of extraterritoriality, with entire districts where sharia is even applied and in which the magistrates do not enter into the mayor of women's rights or the fact that laws, which are aberrant for us, have led to the consequences that we live in. Personally, I agree with Mrs Bertorotta: I have always been against the fantastic crime of illegal immigration, which is tragicomic and I do not know why governments do not abolish it. I did not change my mind when I was in the majority and I do not change my mind now, that I am in opposition: I would like to understand what is needed to start millions of trials, that in the end, Mr Bertorotta, they do not end up incarceration, but with a fine and I believe that none of those who have been sentenced have ever paid a fine in relation to this fantomatic crime, which has only clogged the prosecutions and the work of legal lawyers, without achieving any result. Another thing is rejection or expulsion. Here too, however, we must be clear: rejection and expulsion are not a prison sentence, they are nothing different from simply pointing out that a person entered Italy irregularly. If such a thing is done in Australia or the United States - let's not talk about the Arab countries! - simply the person is brought back to the country of origin, or you try to do so. The missionaries and people who are at the forefront of those countries continue to explain to us that, as long as the younger, more active and enterprising people who own 3,000 or 4,000 euros, who are part of a certain bourgeoisie, leave in mass, those same countries will be in desperation, because they will not have the ability to develop their own economy autonomously, because of a impoverishment of the ruling classes, whose members come to Europe millions, risking even dying. This is the picture in which we move. As some Members have mentioned, yesterday two agendas were presented in the Commission, which I too have signed, one of which said something very simple: if it happens that non-governmental organisations actually bypass the state and set in motion a mechanism such that, in conjunction with the traffickers of men, it is enough to signal that NGOs are going to take these migrants, at least the Italian State stops financing them, because the deaths at sea are then liable, precisely, to this phenomenon. Traffickers no longer have to put migrants on boats that have to make the crossing of the Mediterranean, because with this mechanism they put them on swimmers, because it is enough that they do not sink for a few hours in the hope that they will come to collect them. If they arrive in time, well; if they arrive late, bad, because with cynicism they let them drown. This agenda has been rejected. I would like to understand from the Minister for Foreign Affairs why such simple reasoning, on the same day that the Attorney of Catania made this complaint, was rejected. The other agenda was also very simple: it asked the Government to work in Europe so that, when the ships collect these migrants, they would not have to take them to Italy, but they could also take them to the ports of France, Malta, Croatia and Slovenia, which are Europe like us and should take over the phenomenon like us. This agenda was also rejected. Beyond the technicalities, I too recognize, with a little 'irony (within the time limit that I still have available, but I think I have more than ten minutes, being the only one to speak on behalf of my Group), how presumptuous is all the controversy against the CIE and the collection centers, where they are held those who must be expelled and who have perhaps already been in prison and have been identified. Then comes a minister like Minniti and discovers the hot water that there must also be a place to hold these people, also since they have criminal precedents, before, in front of our homes or in the streets, they grow the popular revolt against muggings, robberies or other situations of inviability that, for obvious reasons, feed xenophobia and racism. In the decree-law there are therefore positive aspects that I agree with, but they are included in a framework in which we do not understand absolutely, as I have heard in the speeches of the majority friends, what we want to do. First we talked about the mafia and the 'ndrangheta, but it was the police who said that in Fermo, at the funeral of the Nigerian who was killed in that famous episode we talked about in this House, those who held the coffin were probably part of the Nigerian mafia, because like the Italian mafia infiltrated America, there are also criminal organizations "following" not only terrorist, who infiltrate Italy. So, everyone coming in is good? Those who arrive to really escape the war, absolutely yes, but that of the 200 million people who want to come to Italy because they believe that in Italy one is better is a phenomenon that must be governed. It is clear that trust cuts the head of the bull, because if the government asks for confidence in the measure and does not let Parliament vote on it, ours - for the reasons I have just indicated - will only be a vote against and distrust.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u39	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute for Vocational Training in the Tertiary of Porto Ferraio, in the province of Livorno, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u40	Senator Lo Moro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u41	Madam President, Mrs Guerra has already spoken for my Group, so I take up her witness, I am going forward in the debate and I am not going to talk about the things that are missing in this measure, except to say that we have tabled an agenda, which has been approved in the Commission, precisely to commit the Government and, as far as it is competent, Parliament to ensure that the gaps in the measure are filled. In fact, the fact that there are gaps in the measure is due to the fact that we are faced with a decree-law, which clearly wants to speed up international protection procedures and intervene in the fight against illegal immigration, without addressing the whole issue of immigration, but only a few issues. If even a very full measure appears, as it is in fact, the gaps are there: we have already said so and we leave them aside. It is a full-bodied measure for the fact that it innovates the procedures in a rather heavy way and therefore must go into the procedural details in order to make it all readable. Let us see then what are the stakes that we have respected in this measure. Meanwhile, the sections. It could certainly be otherwise: the tables to which the Supreme Council of the judiciary was working were probably enough to solve the problem, with a resolution which it also gave us; but the Government chose the sections and we had no reason to oppose this assumption of responsibility. We spoke on this point only to correct the number of sections, because it seemed to us that we had to ensure the presence in the courts of all the Courts of Appeal; from this point of view the Commission intervened, certainly also helped by the hearings. We have to tell ourselves the truth: we have had very high-quality hearings, which have prevented a frontal confrontation on issues which may seem to have taken a stand. Among the people we have auditioned I want to thank, in particular, President Cosentino, of the National Association of Judges, and, above all, the vice president of the Higher Council of the Legnini judiciary, who made an exceptional hearing precisely for the constitutional role of theSM, who have done justice to the observations that were emerging, which appeared immediately not ideological or political, but based on the need to contest the acceleration desired by the Government and shared by us with the right to defence and human rights. We have, therefore, extended competence (the extension of competence has also been accepted to the area of citizenship law) and we have maintained the specialised sections, but now there are 26 and not the lower number previously foreseen. The other particular point in the measure, which we have accepted, although we have tried to contain it, is the detailed discipline of the procedure in the territorial committees, to which it attaches great importance. In particular, an instrument is introduced, that of video recording, which then, in the next evolution, if there were to be an appeal before a judge, acquires a particularly heavy probative importance. In this case, we have spoken and tried to keep the territorial committees separate from the next stage. At some time it seemed almost that these territorial committees could be a first degree of judgment: that is not the case. The degrees of judgment may not even be two of merit and one of legitimacy and be only one of merit and one of legitimacy - which we accepted, putting stakes from the procedural point of view and the protection of rights in substance - but it was absolutely necessary to keep the two things completely separate. There was some element of confusion in the measure, but we kept the two phases distinct by claiming and obtaining that the applicant can be heard, even if following a reasoned request (which in ordinary trials there is not: the applicant is always heard, it is mandatory to listen to a claimant who requests it). In this case a filter has been placed (others are present in successive stages) and the applicant can be heard if he justifies his request and if the judge accepts this request because he considers it essential for the decision. However, the principle of an adversarial which, although justified and shared by the court, remains possible remains. The other element which we did not think was satisfactory and which we have overturned with a serene debate, in which all the political forces, including those of the minority, who were, in fact, particularly careful in the general debate and in the adoption of the amendments, took part, is as follows. In the context of the procedures within the competence of the section there are many subjects, but the decree focuses above all on a specific matter, which is that of international protection, dealt with in article 35- bis of Legislative Decree No. 25 of 2008, where however was previewed the non reclaimability. While for all other matters there is the decree ex Article 737 of the Code of Civil Procedure, but there is a possibility of appeal, for this matter, precisely because of the need to speed up that led to the videotape and to the things I said, had been set as an indispensable objective by the Government and, for the Government, by Minister Minniti, who said it clearly also at the hearing, the non reclaimability of the decree. Again, we accepted this stake, although it was not easy to do so, because there are not many cases, in Italian law, in which collegiality fails when there is no appeal, but we accepted it provided that the principle of collegiality was introduced and therefore for these specific measures it is foreseen that it is not a monocratic judge to provide, but a collegial judge. So there are many changes that have been made. Our approach was very open to the Government, which was certainly not helped by the initial impact. Even in the hearings, in fact, the fact that we were discussing a measure transmitted a few days before another measure such as the one on urban security, which created many discussions, meant that both were discussed at the same time and there was the possibility that the arguments might somehow be confused. Speaking of immigration, and therefore of a problem that is strongly felt in Italy and that must be dealt with quickly, we could also have talked about security, but we tried to keep the two issues separate and so we arrived serenely at a definition, with the stakes on which I have partly reported and that overall were the result of a serene discussion. The other strategic point that signalled the Government is that relative to the former centers of identification and expulsion (CIE). Senator Guerra explained why we are not satisfied with the legislation on the point; I would add that, without prejudice to the need to regulate the former CIEs and to make sure that they no longer have anything to do with the CIEs that have also been investigated by the Commission and that they are places of detention even if they should not be, the requirement that the Government has placed and that we have respected is to ensure that these centres are present widely on the territory and therefore in all the Regions. This post has also been respected, so overall the legislation that results is a law that is certainly more respectful of the rights of the applicants, therefore asylum seekers, more respectful of the constitutional norms as a whole, but also of the stakes that the Government had placed. I conclude, at this stage of general discussion, by saying that I am pleased that many people consider the repeal of the crime of illegality to be urgent. What we did not share in the debate in the Commission was the vote on the amendment which was then expounded by the President of the Senate during the debate in this House on the Red Cross. In fact, we tried to ensure that this decree was a decree on immigration and we defended all this until the end. Certainly it was surprising that we could not discuss the crime of illegality, because we did not want to introduce criminal elements, but if the point was to reduce the presence and speed up the procedures, one could not fail to know, also because it has been widely said that the slope of judicial appeals obviously obliges the persons concerned (the accused and the convicted in first instance) to remain on the Italian territory if not authorized to move away and this creates an artificial pressure that could well be resolved with the repeal of the crime of illegality. That, then, is what we are serenely prepared to deal with for the next stage in this House. I would like to add that I do not agree with the question of confidence in the measure, because many of the amendments we have tabled for all the groups: for example, on Article 1 there will be one or two of them, such as that referred to by Senator Gasparri, but there can also be many other articles. A government that listens and works with us in the Commission and then puts the question of trust is a contradiction. I say that because soon the Security Decree will come and I hope that there will be the same listening ability, otherwise it will become complicated. The Government therefore knows that we can tolerate the issue of trust even when we do not share it, but where the arguments and amendments are discussed in depth in the Commission and there is a point of sharing. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u42	Senator Mazzoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u43	Madam President, I believe that in order to fully examine the meaning of this decree-law it is necessary to contextualize it with the most recent data provided by the Ministry of the Interior. In December 2016, the migrants hosted in the different types of Italian reception centers were about 176,000, 70 percent more than 2015. The choice has been made to focus on the widespread reception, which is not easy to manage, but it is definitely the best, and to proceed to the overcoming of the large centers, where it is much more difficult to guarantee efficient standards and build integration policies. We acknowledge Minister Minniti's attempt to get out of the emerging approach to a phenomenon that is now definitely structural, such as immigration. Migrants must be distributed on the territory in a more homogeneous way than they are now: this is a road that has begun to travel with the possibility of mayors to present territorial projects within the SPRAR system and with the criterion of the three migrants per 1,000 inhabitants, to govern a phenomenon that otherwise the territories would risk only suffering. There are already 1,200 municipalities adopting the SPRAR and many others are completing the applications, the first deadline of which is set at the end of March. The National Association of Municipalities, starting from the distribution of quotas by Region established in 2014, proposed a more balanced distribution, based on the resident population, to avoid dramatic situations, such as the concentration of more than 1,000 migrants on a territory of about 3,000 inhabitants, as happened in the two neighbouring municipalities of Cona and Bagnoli, in Veneto. The impact in these cases risks being difficult to sustain, both for migrants and especially for residents. The SPRAR system, appropriately revised, therefore allows, on a voluntary basis, to each mayor and to each grouping of small municipalities, to manage the reception on the basis of the specific characteristics of the cities and territories. Joining the SPRAR system also means ensuring a more balanced distribution of migratory flows on the territory. The Government has taken some measures in recent months, from 500 euros for each host migrant, recognized in the budget law of the Municipalities, to the strengthening of the territorial commissions, to the attempt, with this decree-law, to simplify the procedures of appeal, in order to halve the waiting times for the examination of the demands on the right of asylum. As I explained in the reference for a preliminary ruling, however, the measure contains simplified measures which are likely to incur a burst of appeals to the Consulta, because of their more than suspected inconstitutionality. The Minniti-Orlando decree in fact makes significant changes of restrictive sign to the discipline of the limitation of the freedom of migrants under conditions of irregularity and the judicial protection of asylum seekers. First of all, despite the proven ineffectiveness of detention in identification and expulsion centres in relation to the objective of facilitating identification and return procedures, the Government has chosen not only to invest in this institution, but also to strengthen it. In fact, the duration of detention in the centre of the migrant already held in cases of particular complexity of the procedures for identification and organisation of return extends by 15 days, after validation by the judge of peace. Compared to expulsion as a substitute sanction or alternative to detention, it is also expected that, when it is not possible to carry out the repatriation of the foreigner due to force majeure, the state of detention will be restored, even for the time strictly necessary for the execution of the expulsion order. In addition, the network of centres is extended, while taking into account the need to create structures with a smaller capacity than the CIEs when identifying suitable premises. Moreover, with this decree-law, the judicial protection of the asylum seeker with respect to the refusal of this status is strongly reduced. The appeal procedure will, in fact, have a purely chamber-based and mainly paper-making nature with a significant mitigation of the presence of the contradictory. For the purposes of the decision, the judge will essentially use the video recording of the administrative procedure held before the territorial commission. The appearance of the applicant will be ordered only if the judge considers it necessary following the vision of the videotape and when the judge, in fact, considers the acquisition of clarification of the parties indispensable. The contraction of the guarantees of the contradictory thus envisaged has been denounced, among others, by the same first President of the Court of Cassation, who has emphasized that the guarantee of the contradictory presupposes the effective equality of the parties, while in some cases the special procedure foreshadowed by the decree Minniti-Orlando for the disputes in the matter of international protection is to contradict purely eventual. The problem is that demanding simplification of procedures cannot in any way mean the abolition of guarantees. This is all the more important if we consider that the decree-law also excludes the appeal against the decision of the court. The decree ends, in short, with the addition of further derogations of restrictive sign to the common law against foreign only, already in itself recipients of a particular legal subsystem. Think, for everyone, of the institute of administrative detention in the centers. Moreover, the Government did not take the opportunity to regulate what today constitutes a real legal limbo, namely the stay in hotspots. This would have been appropriate also in the light of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights last December, which condemned Italy for the illegality of the detention of many migrants during the Arab Spring at the reception centre in Lampedusa. The Court has stigmatized the absence of an appropriate legal basis to legitimise the detention of migrants. The overall impression, in short, is that once again the legislative changes in the field of immigration, albeit with the appropriate intention to speed up administrative procedures whose number has increased exponentially in recent times, end up resulting in a further limitation to the freedom and rights of migrants. I want to point out that hotspots still don't have a clear regulatory framework. They are a kind of legal limbo and it is absolutely necessary to specify in national and Community legislation what happens in these centres: at European level it was not considered necessary to issue regulations or directives, because it is considered sufficient the regulatory frameworks of the European agencies operating in the identification and registration centres; at national level it was only through ministerial circulars instead of on the basis of a law. Born as a response from the European Commission to the increase in the number of migrants and the loss of human lives in the Mediterranean, hotspots were introduced in Italy by the circular of the Minister of the Interior of 6 October 2015. On these centers remains (and faultily in this decree-law did not want to intervene on the point) a halo of nebulosity around the legal bases that hold the hotspot approach, in which we note the absence of a legal framework. No legislative act, in fact, neither Italian nor European, regulates what is happening within these centres. This is in spite of the constitutional reservation provided for in Article 10 (2) of the Constitution, according to which the legal condition of the foreigner is governed by law. The only reference legislation in fact remains that of 1995, the so-called Puglia law, taken up by the recent legislative decree n. 142 of 2015. In January the Minister of Interior Minniti announced changes that will involve the current identification and expulsion centers (CIE), talking about a profound change of course, with transparent governance and better living conditions within. The new residence centres for return (CPR) should be smaller and more numerous, one per region near airports. There are currently five CIEs active: Rome, Bari, Caltanissetta, Turin and Trapani. The fact that there are only five left indicates precisely the fact that their enormous failure is taking place, because of the high costs, the degrading conditions and the limited number of foreigners actually repatriated, also highlighted by all independent studies, as well as by the Court of Auditors and the reports of the parliamentary committees of inquiry, which led previous governments to drastically decrease their number. These change their names: they will no longer be called that, but CPR. In the intentions of the Ministry of the Interior the renewed model must appear as less vexatory as possible eliminating the concepts of identification and expulsion, but still there will remain structures from which you will not be able to leave, even if they become only centers aimed at return and not almost administrative prisons to punish the illegals. As I have already said and I want to repeat, this decree has also lost the opportunity to provide an appropriate regulatory framework for these centres. President, the underlying philosophy that permeates the government's policy is, therefore, to expel as many migrants as possible. It is a measure that could be called defensive since even in 2017 it is expected that the number of migrants arriving from the Mediterranean route will increase exponentially. In order to pursue this reasonable objective, namely the speeding up of asylum application procedures and the streamlining of the overload of the reception system, the solution adopted is to compress the guarantees by abolishing a degree of judgment for those who have seen their application rejected at first instance. Asylum should not be treated in the same way as any issue of civil law. We are talking, in fact, about a right considered by the Constitution as the inalienable right of the person, a full subjective right, of which this decree, while aiming at shared objectives, has not taken due account. The last chance that has been missed is to abolish the crime of illegal immigration. I recall that in 2014 the Italian Parliament passed a law which specifically delegated the Government to take action to abolish this crime, which proved useless and clogged our courts, but all the amendments referring to this point were declared inexplicably inadmissible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Albertini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u44	Madam President, I shall begin my brief speech with an arithmetic analysis of two data from the report on the draft law, which relate to the number of persons who have requested international protection, in two years of internal comparison and recomposition. In 2013, when the migratory phenomenon was already expanding abundantly, which then assumed over time and under more recent circumstances adequately described by several people as biblical, the number of people - I obtained the data from an unmistakable text containing the official estimates of the Ministry - who had applied for international protection to our country was 26,620 units; about 12 percent of these were granted refugee status (3.078 people). Three years pass, we are in 2016 and this base number goes from 26.620 to 123,600 units: it has almost five times in three years. However, the most interesting and alarming figure for framing the legislative measures that we are devoting our attention to is the second: on this huge amount of applications for international protection, which, as was said, has almost fivefold, only about 4% (no longer 12% of three years ago), equal to 4.808 people, has been granted legal status as a refugee. Therefore, the two figures concerning the strictly humanitarian dimension of our laws, in application of the Constitution which gives asylum to refugees, tell us that it has increased somewhat from 3.078 to 4.808, but in the face of a situation that has almost fivefold. This fact must make us think tremendously about what has already happened and which can happen in the future in extremely alarming terms, about what in a certainly dramatic scenario can be justified in various respects, not only humanitarian, but also the application of the laws of the law in force in which we believe and the scale of values in which we recognize ourselves. In this flow that has such connotations exponential figures are inserted: potentially there are millions who can wish to move from the poor countries to the rich ones, thus trying to solve a problem of distribution of income in an improper way; the number of people potentially approachable and who do not fall into the category of refugees can assume dimensions from real invasion. I remember a personal episode that had to do with my past experience as mayor of Milan. I am referring to the decision to hand over the highest city honour to Oriana Fallaci, who was in New York in a very aggravated state of illness, so much so that he could not go to Milan to withdraw this merit. Oriana Fallaci made me a very wide phone call in which I met many aspects of her personality, in addition to those I already knew for reading it, and quoted me a sentence, which in recent years seems to become a reality, referring to a leader of the Arab world (I think it was Boumediene) who said: We will conquer you with the belly of our women. Well, if the data I have reported are appropriate and if the large number of immigrants (not only those who according to our laws have refugee characteristics) takes on this dimension, it seems to me that this prophecy can come true with dramatic results for our civilization and our social life. I started this intervention from a critical point of view, from a disturbing point of view, from an alarming point of view, and then evolved with an appreciable description of what we are doing to deal with both the acceleration of international protection proceedings - this issue is being challenged by the European Union precisely because we are not efficient enough, given the number of applications of this type of service, to define the legal status of those who come to our country - but also to combat illegal immigration. In fact, I follow very briefly some traces of the measure, which has already been extensively described by my colleagues (I do not want to add repeated phrases already heard), the whole of the measure focuses mainly on the establishment of specialised sections, for example, on immigration, international protection and the free movement of citizens in the ordinary courts where the appeals courts are located. 26 sections are established with specific competence in the field of immigration, using magistrates already in service. This will certainly favor the definition of these cases and the discernment between those who are entitled or not to remain in our country, in compliance with our laws. It is established, as has already been described, that this professionalism is specialized and is also acquired through training courses, with particular attention to ensuring a doctrine and a capacity for intervention adapted to the purpose. It is also expected that the magistrates assigned to these functions, not only in the start of their new dimension of functional competence, but also in subsequent years, will have the urgent need, and I believe also appreciated by themselves, of a professional update and of a continuation of the training in itinere. It should also be recalled, from this point of view of speeding up and efficiency of the judicial system of reference for the control of these scenarios, that all processes in migratory matters fall within the ordinary jurisdiction of the monocratic judge. Article 4 identifies the competence of the specialised sections depending on the territory, setting it with appropriate benchmarks, in particular as regards those entitled or, better, the applicants; on the subject of reception, reference is made to the place where they are (the public institution where they are admitted). Thus for many other scenarios, which are addressed on time in this revision of the organizational facility, such as the acceleration of appeal procedures or the widespread inclusion of telematic modalities both for the connection of data and the transmission of information concerning the asylum seeker and for the conditions in which the interrogation or hearing takes place, where there is a debate on the issue concerning the asylum seeker. So there is a whole scenario that gives space to an efficiency of system functionality, as well as the increase of the shorts dedicated to the function. This intervention is part of an international scenario in which we not only commit ourselves to respect the laws, and in particular the European discipline on the status of international protection, but we also adapt to the organizational capacity that other countries, perhaps with less important dimensions than ours as an impact with immigration, have managed to achieve. I overlook other details on the same subject of jurisdiction on this subject, to address a slightly more critical aspect of this measure that we are preparing to approve, overall with consensus and with a reasonable and convinced awareness that we are doing something useful and appropriate. During the debate on the amendments which engaged the two Commissions at even very complex night sessions, with fairly "tonic" dialectical exchanges between different positions, a number of particularly sensitive issues were addressed. I would like to make a reflection here which does not want to contradict what I have said so far in terms of support for this government line, which is stricter in certain aspects of combating irregular immigration, and, on the other hand, more respectful of the real rights of refugees as such. In the last few days it has spread, not only in the institutional fora we are talking about, but also in the network and in the media, something that leaves perplexed, on which I recommend the attention of the government and also of colleagues. I believe that many of you know that there is a system - AIS (Automatic identification system) - that, with regard to ships that have an adequate displacement to navigate beyond the territorial waters, therefore in the open sea, is something similar, from the technological point of view, to the transponder of the planes. This system allows satellite or other monitoring mechanisms to detect at any time of the day and year where a particular ship is located. There is also an Internet site - Marine Traffic - through which, paying a modest subscription, certainly within the reach not only of our Government, but also of individuals, you can monitor where each of these ships is located. Well, I don't want to go into the details, but through this site it has emerged that in particular days - they are defined day, time and place - there have been particularly unusual cases, which deserve our attention. A few miles from the Libyan coast is ships of the Italian Coast Guard (I am referring to the ship Peluso), both ships chartered by non-governmental organizations, even if flying the flag attributable to tax havens (I think of the Aquarius and Blue Gulf motorships), they went a few tens of miles from the Libyan territorial waters, they collected hundreds - if not thousands - of migrants who were on boats with Italy destination and brought them to our territory. You know that the navigation code provides that when a shipwreck occurs, even if potential, rescue operations must be concluded with the admission of persons in the port closest to the place of interception. In the present case, therefore, it is certainly not the coasts of Sicily in front of Tripoli (which are 250 miles away) but rather the port of Zarzis, in Tunisia, (which is 90 miles away), or Malta (which is 180 miles away from the pick-up site). This scenario is particularly disturbing and should be monitored if we take into account that the costs facing our country are valued at 3 billion euros. You think that the maneuver that should be implemented in the autumn of this year, which seems to disturb our government and all of us and shake our budgets, is around EUR 3.4 billion. Well, the cost of immigration so designed is almost the equivalent of this maneuver, and we perceive a ridiculous figure from the European Union to deal with this phenomenon, with our humanitarian values and rational criteria and civil people. However, what is happening - I have mentioned some cases - is really disturbing because it seems that there is a connection between those who go to collect potential "customers" - I pass the prosaic term for people who certainly live a great suffering or for the wars from which they escape or for the poverty they want to leave - and those organizations, which then collect these people and host them, at 35 euros per day, in the places where they are humanitarianly hosted. I believe, then, that we cannot and must not joke about these matters because behind these aspects, covered with generous humanity, it hides in reality so as to subtract energies, that they would be better spent on other destinations, and above all to promote that trade of human beings that underlies these phenomena. I am beginning to conclude in the time allocated to me, confirming that the measure as a whole certainly intervenes with appropriate organization of the system to facilitate the acceleration of the identification of refugee status. However, it has some shortcomings in the other area, that is, the fight against irregular immigration, especially where it does not intervene properly - and it is not difficult to know this structure if it has been accessible to me as a mere citizen - in monitoring and checking that there is no improper connection between the apparent humanitarian desire to help the suffering of human beings and the business that results from going to 250 miles in the Libyan territorial waters to collect shipwrecks and then bring them to NGOs financed by the Italian State and leave them in this territory which, although inspired, in our legislation and in our history, is certainly not in the conditions - and must not be - of taking on problems that are far wider and far different from its resources and above all from the desire to address them in this way. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u45	Madam President, first of all I would like to refer to the decree-law itself. The title itself encourages us to reflect on what is evidently felt to be an urgent need: to rationalise and expedite procedures. In order to do this, the aspects which are considered to be a waste of time are examined with technical expertise, on which, in any case, we can think of saving time: in particular, notifications, interviews and appeals. I would like to turn these words into three concepts which I believe are transparency, knowledge and control. If I go from the procedure instead to those content of law that is behind the procedure itself, I am talking about three elements that are not irrelevant: transparency, knowledge and control. Being elements that concern the procedures of those who are seeking protection or asylum, that is, a person who clearly departs from a condition of serious discomfort and also of danger, transparency, knowledge and control (transparency of what concerns him, knowledge of his situation and control also of the choices that are made on him) are particularly important aspects, because we are talking about subjects that are however in a condition of inferiority and weakness. On the one hand, the decree-law decides to resolve the situation through instruments that would like to be of rationalization and simplification, first of all through computerized means, according to a logic that we have seen very often, aimed at entrusting mechanical instruments the ability to solve procedures that, if dependent on human contribution alone, are considered excessively long. Colleagues, I would just like to point out to you that the moment of knowledge - when the judge has to relate to a person who makes specific requests - could take place through a video conference, as is the case for prisoners subject to maximum security conditions, especially related to Mafia crimes. This contrasts considerably with the concept of specialization, which I would like to return to. If we want to have a specialized judge, we must also have a judge alerted, that is, capable of having contact with the subject and with the situation he is experiencing. Given the peculiar situation of these subjects, this ability will hardly be able to be developed through a video conference. A specialized knowledge of the subject's conditions and information that the subject may not want or be able to give through a video conference is therefore necessary. I would also like to highlight another aspect, which could then wreck this measure and even the desire to introduce elements and instruments that speed up these procedures. When we talk about computer science, video conferencing and video recording, we are talking about elements which, both from a technical point of view and from the point of view of the preparation of the people who will have to deal with these procedures, require adequate investment, on equipment and people; but we do not see any trace of such appropriate investments. Also with regard to the establishment of the 14 sections, fortunately up to 26, we find a series of contradictions. These 14 sections were identified as such on the basis of historical data. Apart from the fact that during the hearings it was pointed out to us that these historical data were not actually taken and considered in a correct manner, but it must be borne in mind that the volume of these data is bound to increase. The sections were raised to 26, based on a request made across and accepted, but the very way of imagining these sections indicates a will that is at least visionless. We are talking about specialist sections, but in setting them up we are providing an allowance, as if it were poor seats. I therefore have to think that, rather than specialization, we should perhaps talk about ghettoization. When we talk about specialization in this House, we are faced with a rather schizophrenic attitude. We do not have time to make a punctual comparison - but I hope there will be time when the right time comes - between the specialised sections that want to be set up and the treatment that the court will receive for minors, who is a bearer of a specific specialization. There is therefore a certain contradiction in the establishment of specialised sections, which have a certain type of territorial competence, when a subject who instead has a history of specialized content, goes to disperse it into sections, for which autonomy and exclusivity would be denied. I therefore ask the Government to clarify what it means by specialization. If specialization is a kind of mantra, which is invoked whenever we need to calm an audience, it is an account. If, on the other hand, when we talk about specialization, we really want to take the path of specialist competence, then this measure must be achieved both by an adequate allocation of resources and an overall vision, which must not then be fragmented into a affirmation and a contemporary denial. There is above all one aspect that disturbs in the decree-law and it is the sacrifice that is made of constitutional rights in the name of saving and speeding up. This is a hot topic and I think it's time to ask ourselves a question: do we want to be a civilized country? Do we want to be a country that responds to your Constitution, or do we not want to be? And if we do not want to do so because we do not want to allocate resources, then we must be clear about it. There is another issue on which, for reasons of time, I cannot extend, but which I cannot help but touch, which is the real problem of immigration. First of all I would like to clarify that I reject the logic for which the immigrant is someone who comes to take something that is not his and comes here to pollute a culture and a civilization that are not his, first of all because a civilization - according to what I said before - must possess its own internal instruments to affirm its own values and must be able to do so not with the weapons of the issue and of the contestation of the values of others, but with the deep, intrinsic, liberating and civil meaning that these values must always recall. If you lose the ability to assert them, it will not be because of a law or militarizing a territory that we will be able to do so. I say this also in relation to the other decree-law that we will soon be discussing in this House. I would like to stress that there are great responsibilities, for which there are also those who are elected in this parliamentary term, but who have been parliamentarians in many other previous legislation. Firstly, there is the inability to govern globalisation and to implement a truly efficient foreign policy capable of a global vision. Italy authorizes peace missions that should first of all respond to what is now seen as an emergency; it is not the final segment of the emergency to be answered, but it is all that lies behind it. I wonder: what results do peace missions give in terms of certainties for those who have to get away from their own countries? We are incapable of self-criticism and correction with regard to our peace missions. I am almost tender for the twenty contractists who will be sent to Africa by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as if twenty contractists hired on the spot could give the answer that our entire foreign policy system has failed to give; here I am talking about the foreign policy that we do as a country and on which we are lacking both in view and in the involvement of so-called stone convitates. Today the stone convents are all those who do business with Africa, because there are and have never been brought into play and considered responsible for a different political project that Italy must develop towards Africa. I want to conclude my speech by suggesting an idea: I remember that in my parish there was a manifesto representing the image of a watermelon cut in half, but there was a problem, because the flesh of the watermelon was all attached to the top of the skin. Below was written: "North and South equal parts: return the difference". So, either we accept the idea that someone has come to take this difference, or we change step and start to evaluate the issue differently and not as a hairy and unfortunately often obvious attempt to make immigrants an interest, through the centers or through underpaid work. The time has come to call these stone convents and begin to ask them to answer for their responsibilities, otherwise everything else will be, for the umpteenth time, only a misguided response to an emergency that will continue to create confusion and degrade what I have heard in this House as our culture and our civilization. [[Applause from Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u48	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, I would ask for the kindness to have the cards of the absent Members left in the voting arrangements removed, which are a little bad to see. If the person isn't here, we need to get the card removed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u49	I call on Parliament's assistants to remove from voting arrangements cards which do not correspond to a senator. (Parliamentary assistants take care to remove the cards). Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u50	Madam President, first of all, I would like to make a comment with you, a few colleagues, on what we are doing here today: a general debate in this House almost completely empty, after three days of close votes in joint committees, justice and constitutional affairs, with a final coordinated text that is not yet in our readiness, not because of the Offices, but because obviously the parliamentary working methods present shortcomings. In fact, any person looking out here to see how we are forced to work would agree with us that we are not in the best position to work: to produce the best of what each of us can do. It is not so much the lack of a coordinated text, due to the short-lived timetable that the Presidency imposes on this House; it is another circumstance on which we should reflect: we are talking about a text that we do not yet know basically. We already know now that the Government will intervene with a maxi amendment, on which confidence will probably be placed the coming week; so we intervene on a text that theoretically could be different. We know that, for a coherent speech, it will not be, but it will certainly be in part different. Perhaps the major government amendment will address an issue that has occupied the Commissions in the last half hour of their convocation, namely the amendment concerning the Italian Red Cross. We will see, but the very fact that we are currently discussing a text that could theoretically be altered or modified, in small or relevant details, should make us consider amending the parliamentary regulations or, perhaps, ensuring that, if the Government considers it necessary to intervene with a maxi amendment on which to put trust, this type of general discussion does not take place or takes place later and not only with the debate on trust, in order to give the groups and each individual Member of Parliament the opportunity to intervene by having before the text of the bill, which we now objectively do not have. Therefore, any consideration that I and my colleagues have made and will subsequently take on this logical vice, on which we should all reflect together, in order to give some credibility to the work we do and which is perceived outside the palace. In these three days of feverish votes on hundreds of amendments we can say that some results have been achieved, compared to the completely negative judgment we had on the decree-law as presented by the Government. In fact, we think that, especially thanks to the contribution of the other oppositions and to a certain, albeit moderate, willingness of the speakers and the Government, we managed to limit the damage; the damage to those principles of legal civilization that are very often evoked here, as also recently happened in a pompous way. I am referring to the rights to defence, to the right to conflict, to civil rights, which are often invoked here to protect those who sit in a parliamentary chair or on a government bench. I am referring to the obvious debate that has taken place and to the votes that we continue to consider scandalous about the decadence of Senator Minzolini and, before that, about the distrust of Minister Lotti. Those principles, which are very respectable in the abstract, are likely to falter - if not to collapse - when, as in the case we are dealing with, we are talking about the rights of asylum seekers and applicants for international protection: they are the last of the last, as we know well. They are above all those who do not then vote and, therefore, have no electoral consensus to cultivate, rather they become the object and instrument of political controversy on one side or the other, and whose stories and lived, often tragic, are the subject of political and false-ideological diatribe. And in the end, those who spend it are, as well as our citizens, the same asylum seekers. As I said, we have managed at least to limit damage, always trusting that the text of the maxi amendment will re-propose what has come out of the work of the Commissions. We have managed to ensure that a principle of legal civilisation, which has also recently been reaffirmed by our Court of Cassation, as well as by the European Court of Human Rights, namely the need to publicise the hearing in a court of law, is at least partially recovered after the amending work. I am referring to the fact that, on the basis of the decree-law received to us, the asylum seeker refusing recognition by the territorial commissions could have faced a judicial process before the institutions specialised sections of the courts without having the possibility, theoretical but also practical, of ever being able to see his own judge in the face. As we know, having been abolished a degree of appeal, namely the appeal or reclaimability of the measures of this court - there is no longer, and this is one of the problems of the legal holding of the decree, in our view - we have been able to widen the cases in which the asylum seeker, after the examination that the judge will have to make of the videotape of the interview held in front of the commissions, has the possibility in a number of cases to be summoned at the hearing and finally appear personally. The applicant may perhaps have his own lawyer, who knows better the complex national regulatory apparatus, and will have the opportunity to clarify aspects on factual circumstances that may be decisive for the granting or refusal of recognition of international protection. That's good. The number of specialised sections of the courts has been increased, as we have seen. The 5 Star Movement also argued that in the national context the number of the above sections should be increased from fourteen to twenty-six, equal to the number of courts where the court of appeal is located throughout Italy. And this will encourage greater distribution and a better expectation of fairer and more easily available judgments. We have succeeded in guaranteeing legitimate refusal to videotape before the territorial commissions in all cases where, for reasons of political persecution, the applicant, with motivation, may refuse to appear in videotape, with the risk that that multimedia document may enter into the availability of dictatorial regimes that also pursue violence by torture political opponents. We managed to guarantee the collegiality of the judge. We missed, however, the opportunity to use the institutions' specialised sections of the courts to collect a criterion of uniqueness of jurisdiction. Even today, if this is the text of the decree-law that will pass, for a number of issues related to asylum seekers and non-EU citizens will remain the functional competences of other judges, such as - for example - the judge of peace for the so "beloved" crime of illegal immigration, or the administrative courts. It was therefore missed the opportunity to concentrate jurisdiction and jurisdiction before the same body and this would have facilitated the impossibility of conflicts of jurisdiction or jurisdiction between the various judicial authorities. Madam President, I do not know how much time I still have. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He finished it. Let us therefore begin to conclude his speech. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Having no more time available for my intervention, I conclude with a reference to the issue of the crime of illegal immigration, an offence introduced by Article 10- bis of the Single Text of the provisions concerning the discipline of immigration, which - as is known to all - was a measure adopted by law n. 67 of 2014. The decriminalization of this crime was proposed by the 5 Star Movement in the Justice Commission and - I would like to remind you - it was also voted by the Network. The government did not exercise that delegation. Yet, today we have also heard representatives of the majority, and especially of the Democratic Party, hope for the need and opportunity to repeal an unnecessary, damaging and expensive crime for the pockets of Italians, which does not discourage the arrival of those who do not have the right to request political asylum. Please, let us finally make this blessed repeal, because it will make the whole process for asylum seekers easier and perhaps allow resources - we are talking about tens of millions of euros - to be allocated in favour of improving the functionality of the territorial commissions, the reception and perhaps even the rejection. They are economic resources that you owe and you can easily recover by repealing this blessed crime that seems to be the most resistant in our national criminal landscape. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u52	Madam President, for this measure too we had given our full support because we thought it was a serious problem. However, we had to record the absence of any possibility of dialogue with the Government, which remained firm on an incorrect indication. I am referring to the competence to evaluate the territorial committees. First of all, the territorial committees - it is not your fault, Mr Chiavaroli, but the Ministry of the Interior - had to be one per province. The state has fought against terrorism in our country by guaranteeing a series of procedural and substantial guarantees and you cannot think of setting up commissions only in the 20 capitals of the Region, because they should be one for each province if you want to achieve the goal of speed. What is the ratio of this measure? Accelerate the verification times of those who are entitled to refugee status and asylum. Instead of doing this, you've complicated things. Not only are there 20 committees left, but you have also wanted to maintain a jurisdiction of the court, even if with our instructions you have at least arrived at the compromise of predicting 26, such as the court districts of appeal. This choice, however, is distonic with respect to the legal system of our country, which provides for a series of appeals and activities carried out by administrative bodies, such as the territorial commissions, which are appealable before the courts of appeal. There's no court case. And you were forced, in order to resume what happens in the other proceedings, i.e. appeal and cassation, which are two degrees, to foresee the court without possibility of appeal and without the passage into cassation. This is a wrong choice, and not only for profiles of unconstitutionality, but the most serious thing is that it is not functional. We also proposed, as regards both the appeal court and the court, a responsibility of the Minister of Justice for the determination of the organic plants of the specialised sections. You told us it wasn't necessary. I am sorry, Madam Undersecretary, but the judicial organisation is a technical matter and you need to know it in order to apply it. You write that the judges who will be assigned to those sections will have to have specializations and, after three years, they will have to take courses and everything else. This suggests that they will remain in those sections for a long period of time, at least five or six years, in order to have specialization. How are these certainties determined since there is no organic plant? In fact, you say that organic equipment must be increased. Of course, you're referring to the court's staff. Of course, more than equipment would have been better to write organic plants. Let us see, however, what will happen. In Article 2 you make a long and beautiful exposition of the specialization of these judges and then you give the power to determine the number to those who do not have the power to provide, namely the Supreme Council of the judiciary. You assign to the Supreme Council of the judiciary the task of determining the number of judges in those chambers in relation to the flows. But do you realize, Madam Undersecretary, that the Supreme Council of the judiciary cannot intervene on the organic plant? You can only take into account what the President of the Court has said when drawing up the tables. When, for example, do you also give him a deadline, pursuant to Article 21 (1), how will the Supreme Council of the judiciary do? You can say - for example - that out of ten people in the court of Bolzano or Trento, three will take care of these matters. And if, hypothetically, the CSM were to report that it would be much more right that there were, instead of three, five judges, it would not be able to do anything. Instead, the Minister of Justice already has the possibility - there is no need for a decree of the President of the Republic - by a ministerial decree, to determine organic plants. And it would be very fair to know how many judges each section should be taking into account the flows, while the Supreme Council of the judiciary can only determine it on the basis of those present. He realizes then that everything becomes a farce. Saying that judges will have a specialization and the ability to operate all in all will not have the benefit that you would like to get. But there is more. You know better than I that magistrates have been working on these matters for 20 years now and have a specialization. But many times they are no longer court judges, and before that they were in pretura or other offices. And you, Undersecretary, also realize what it would mean to use what you correctly provide for in Article 2: to determine who they are and how the judges should perform this specialized function. But the judges referred to in Article 2 are only those of that court. And, if there are none, it is not possible to provide otherwise. On the contrary, by determining organic plants and also giving the Supreme Council of the judiciary the possibility, with competitions, to transfer people from one place to another we would probably have achieved a better result. Give further thought when you go to the House. Think again and consider returning to the court of appeal, because it means having a collegiate body and guarantees. We must apply the chamber procedure to everyone and not - as you have done - only to refugees. To judge, however, all other matters referred to in Article 3, including apolidia and the determination of the state of citizenship with the summary process of cognition and the monocratic judge, is a disgrace! It means not guaranteeing rights and not giving the same guarantees, the guarantees that we must guarantee to everyone in order to make a serious immigration policy. But you don't want to make an immigration policy. The title of the measure refers to the fight against illegal immigration and, therefore, we had tabled amendments relating to police detention only in the event that sufficient addresses of falsehood are used in declarations relating to their identity or falseness of the documents produced to certify their identity. For a false bureaucratism, however, this amendment was considered inadmissible from the point of view of substantive law. The amendment of Article 349 of the Code of Criminal Procedure was also considered inadmissible, with the Government's opinion against it. What contrast to lawlessness, then, if, compared to the case in which there is sufficient evidence of the falseness of the documents produced by those who arrive, did you say that the change should not be done with the contrary opinion of the Government? This is the logic of the measure, against which, for the reasons put forward, we will be forced to vote against, even if we wanted to make a serious contribution to make finally functional a control of the legality, as we did when we were in the government reducing the entrances to 2,750. And I'm talking about the entrances from the sea, because the relationship doesn't even calculate the entrances from the ground. Just see the numbers. Faced with this, we have a humanitarian protection that needs to be reviewed for the hundreds of thousands of people we have; a humanitarian protection that only we have thanks to the Turkish-Napolitan law, then adjusted by the Belusconi Government, and that also has Germany, although it has many problems for recognition so as to reduce the number to a minimum. All those who with humanitarian protection are in our country remain there, because you do not have the possibility to send them to other countries that do not recognize it. [[Applause from Senator Carraro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u53	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagliari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that the time has come for me to restrict the intervention to the maximum by sacrificing considerations that I would have liked to make, but which I have heard in part in other speeches and, therefore, in my turn. I think there is a basic remark that concerns the decree-legtge under consideration and that links it to the decree on urban security. We are faced with a serious and true attempt to assume the emergencies of our country in a decisive way and, in some ways, new, because this is the approach: it is no longer the approach of those who, in the face of a phenomenon that suffers, defend themselves. It is the approach of those who assume the complexity and delicacy of the phenomenon and try to attack it to govern it, knowing that it is not easy to do so, but that this is the mission of politics. In this sense the decree-law moves, trying to rationalise the overall system from the point of view of the measures that concern above all the problem of judicial protection, and striving to make that of reception a system guaranteed also by the legality in the management of the situation of immigrants and by the search for conditions of effectiveness and timeliness of the protection and also of return. This is very simply and synthetically the sense of the measure that I believe moves beyond rhetoric and with great responsibility, paying attention to the rights, legality and respect of people in a framework of balance. Respect for immigrants is, in fact, a fundamental duty, but finding a balance with the needs of the investigations is also fundamental. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Caliendo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u55	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u58	CUCCA, rapporteur. Madam President, given the late hour and the fact that the debate has been particularly long and complex, I would ask you, on behalf of Senator Mancuso, to reply on Tuesday to the resumption of work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u59	The Presidency accepts your request to that effect. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u60	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprentico Statale (State Understanding Institute) Beppe Fenoglio in Bagnolo Piemonte, in the province of Cuneo, who are witnessing our works, which unfortunately have almost reached their conclusion. It is, therefore, a minor phase of the sitting from the point of view of the example of what is generally done in the Senate. However, I think you will have an interest in seeing this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u63	DI BIAGIO (AP-CpE). Madam President, Rule 153 of the Senate Rules of Procedure requires the competent Minister to reply within twenty days to the questioner who requested a written reply, legitimizing an appropriate speed in responding to acts of inspection union, which are an expression of transparency and lawful implementation of the rules of democratic operation of these buildings. There is no claim here to ask, even if it would be fair and legitimate, that the feedback be given in twenty days, but at least that it does not assist in acts left in stock for years, despite repeated solicitations. And on this I believe that I really interpret the thinking of all colleagues. I therefore appeal to the Presidency; to you, Madam President, to be aware of its sensitivity, and to the competent offices of the Dicasteries, in order to call for a rigorous awareness, and a consequent responsibility of those who must, on the management of a cross-section of parliamentary activity which, unfortunately, is unjustly underestimated and which in this way risks injuring the already weak image of this House in the eyes of the citizens who are waiting for answers and clarification. I therefore call on the Presidency to make a strong effort to define more stringent terms for the management of inspection union acts, for real compliance with the Rules of Procedure and the necessary democratic rules underlying them. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u64	The Presidency will undertake to urge the Government to fulfil its duty to answer questions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-791.ana.u65	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.39 p.m.
