ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u6	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I am speaking very briefly. Yesterday we fulfilled our duty as members of the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure and the instructions of the Offices, carrying out a preparatory activity for the choice of Senator Cuomo between the office of mayor and that of senator. However, having read last night on the notes of the press agencies that the President of the Senate has blatantly disavowed the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunities, accusing it essentially of having followed a procedure that would have favored the senator (sincerely I did not understand why), I would kindly like the Senate Presidency, as soon as possible, to explain the reasons why it totally disavowed the activity of the Junta and supported the view that this senator, after two and a half years, twenty-four hours from the maturation of a right matured with payments of two and a half years, should lapse, losing all rights, on the basis of which I do not know what consideration. But since the newspapers have given great importance (the agencies yesterday and the newspapers today) to this kind of speech by the President of the Senate, I would like there to be an explanation in this House, perhaps even in dialect with the President of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity, always for the credibility of the institutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u7	Colleagues, I personally am not aware of the internal events of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, nor of the external events, so I can only pass on these statements to the President himself.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u10	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, if you will allow me to do so, I shall say what is essential about this matter. The essential thing is that Mr Cuomo was elected mayor in June, I believe on the 11th (in the first round), and that yesterday he dealt with it, more than three months later, the Junta of parliamentary elections and immunity, certainly doing its duty in the process. But there are so many questions and, if President Grasso asks them, it is good that we ask them all. There are many questions, because it is very strange - it is not a customary fact - that there have been delays in proclamation. Who has caused these delays, including the convening of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities? Yesterday the Council granted Senator Cuomo three days to exercise the option. Someone, even from his own party, had proposed one day, but it seemed irrelevant. The President of the Council said it was irrelevant a day or three. The proposal is yours. Therefore, all the accumulated delays cannot be blamed on those who found themselves, on September 13 (repeat, with unprecedented delays), not to decide the fate of a colleague but to put his face on something he does not like. For example, I don't like it at all. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u11	Colleagues, we cannot go back to a matter on which we have already spoken yesterday and which is not on the agenda. Anyway, Senator Buemi, you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u12	Mr President, I understand and you are absolutely right. However, there is one issue which concerns the dignity of the members of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. There is a question of the relationship between the Junta body and the Senate presidency. Mr Giovanardi was right to put this matter, because we were faced with two roads. The first is to verify the incompatibility between the position of mayor and that of senator of the Republic of the colleague we spoke about yesterday. The other question was to note, on the part of the President of the Senate, the letter of resignation of Mr Cuomo and to put to the attention of the Assembly the question of acceptance of resignation. They are two very clear standardised procedures, with very precise times and procedures. Having invoked Rule 18 of the Rules of Procedure for the Verification of Credentials, we have achieved, in terms of procedure and timing, what is guaranteed in all previous situations of the same type. There was no and there is no reason to apply a different timetable and procedure to Mr Cuomo. If the presidency of the Senate considered it possible to go the other way, it had all the powers to put the matter to the attention of the House and resolve it in the given time. Having said that, I would like to remind you that we ended our parliamentary activity on 3 August and, as you know, Mr President, we resumed it on Tuesday this week. I do not think there has been an attempt to delay the matter. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u13	Colleagues, this is the end of the matter right now, because it is not on the agenda. I understand very well the speeches that have been made. I'm playing the role of the daughter-in-law used to let her mother-in-law know. I believe that the speeches should be made more appropriately when there is an interlocutor who can give an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u16	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, I will not abuse the word you have given me. I will speak in a few seconds simply to confirm that, as I said yesterday, the letter of resignation was sent to the Senate at the end of July and, by chance, the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities intervened on 13 September, granting three further days, until 16 September, just happens the first day useful to mature the right to retirement. If this is normal for you, it is scandalous for me, it outrages me and should indignant this institution. I think it was very good for the President to call on Senator Cuomo to make an effort, because his honor also goes away. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u19	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am speaking for a few seconds. In this story the times were dictated largely by external causes of the Senate, linked to the proclamation to mayor of Senator Cuomo. I would like to stress that, whatever time Senator Cuomo had been given to exercise his option, it would have been sufficient that the Senator did not make any option. In fact, in doing so, the Senate should have moved on to the process of decadence, of which we are well aware of the times because - unfortunately - we had two cases of this kind in this legislature. Therefore, we would have gone a long way, but far beyond the fateful date of 16 September.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u20	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2287- bis, 459 and 1116. The report has already been printed and distributed. I would ask the rapporteur whether she intends to supplement it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law No 2287- bis before us today concerning provisions on entertainment and delegation to the Government for the reordering of the matter derives from the deletion of Article 34 of the text of Law No 2287 (cinema discipline) which - as you will recall - was approved by the Assembly on 6 October 2016, so about a year ago. From the deletion of that article we have produced a new measure, with a great deal of work within the Commission. The Committee on Culture - I would like to thank the President, who has given us a great deal of space - has done a great deal of work, with more than 40 hearings of many actors involved in the reform, including internationally renowned artists; we have really done an enormous amount of listening work. The examination in the referent was also characterized by a very positive dialectic - I want to emphasize - with oppositions. There has been a considerable common commitment, listening work, as I said, as well as a fruitful relationship which, in my opinion, has produced a measure, which we are proposing today, which is truly satisfactory. Compared to the original text, the one fired by the Commission has a lot of integrations in response to an area that has been waiting for organic reform for more than thirty years. In the mid-1980s, with Law 163 of 1985, the legislator intervened with the establishment of the Single Fund for Performing Arts, the so-called FUS, in order to bring back to a unified framework state support to different sectors of the show, governed by specific and numerous laws. This intervention should have been followed - because already in that text it was written - by an organic reform. Well, we are now doing it. What we are discussing today is a general, complex and comprehensive reform, announced over thirty years ago and then again at regular intervals, but which has not yet seen the light. In this parliamentary term, I would say that we have made it through the contribution of all, majority and opposition, and I believe that this is a very important element, precisely because everyone in the Commission - but I am sure here in this House too - believes that culture and entertainment are fundamental elements in the life of a people and a civilization. In this sense, everyone has helped to build a text that, I hope, can truly welcome your favour. As I said before, last year we were able to reform the cinema sector and finally now we come to this House with a measure on entertainment. In any case, I would like to stress that it is precisely in this parliamentary term that we have managed to implement a reform that is actually - I repeat - very much awaited, but which presents great difficulties because there are many sectors involved: we go from the lyric foundation to the theatre, to the theatre of figure. We also deal with issues related to gangs, to the many artistic expressions present in our territory, so we had to listen to many subjects that over the years have always had great difficulties and, of course, also with regard to investments, we wanted and had to predict a considerable increase. The resources have been found in the dialogue between MiBACT and MEF - I thank the Undersecretary here - so we have accompanied the reform with a signal of new financing. Of course, for us Members of the Commission - but I also believe that for the whole of Parliament - it is always insufficient, because we clearly believe that the resources allocated to entertainment and culture should certainly be more and you have heard us say so many times in this parliamentary term, but I also imagine in the others. However, there has been an effort in this regard, precisely because the government's orientation is to enhance the entire sector and therefore the investments by the Government and in particular those on the subjects and areas of competence of the MiBACT have been remarkable and interesting precisely to propose a change of perspective. With this bill therefore we want a revival and development of the entertainment sector that I define live, even if then in the text we have eliminated this wording, which I use to understand us, referring to those unique shows, that there are once only, because they foresee the presence of the actor (the subject that makes show) and the audience. The sense, therefore, is that it is always a matter of unique shows, unlike other forms of entertainment such as cinema, which is repeated: there is always the atmosphere of a unique moment and we must value this which is actually an exceptional mode from the ancient times in which the theatre was born. It is a way that aims to safeguard cultural values and identities in this global and technological society. This is a particular valorization of an aspect that I believe must never be forgotten in its capacity and power to arouse emotions. All performing arts, in their great creative and expressive diversity, are considered crucial by the European Union as they reflect the cultural diversity of the different traditions and stories of the Member States. Our work in Parliament has made it possible to explicitly include the delegation to the Government for the entertainment code - this, as you know, is a delegated law - within the framework of the national and European constitutional norms and the international conventions of UNESCO, defining the framework of the fundamental principles of the Republic. There is therefore a first part in which this framework is given and, subsequently, there are guiding principles and criteria. It is the delegated legislative decrees, which will allow an optimization and simplification of the public interventions of promotion and support for the show, with the repeal of a series of fragmentary and disorganic provisions, as I have said, those that have gradually overlapped in recent years, also with interventions in the course of budgetary maneuvering, that have been able to introduce useful instruments of support, but outside a strategic framework that in future instead will be clear, transparent and fair. That was the effort we made. In order to ensure that this really happens, we need a body capable of systematically and punctually evaluating the effectiveness of the interventions and directing the policies of the Ministry and in this perspective we have created the Higher Council of the Show. This is a very important and central element in the law, it is a proposal that was accepted very favourably by the Minister, because at this point we have the High Council of the Show, the High Council of the Cinema and the Higher Council of the Cultural Heritage. Therefore, there is a homogenization and harmony between institutional subjects that must be concerned with defining strategies and giving guidance to the government. The Council replaces the Show Council - and those in charge of these matters know how much criticism had been made of this body - by simplifying the organizational framework and making it uniform also with respect to cinema and audiovisual. It will be composed of important figures, important figures, people who will have to be involved, because they are artists, figures who are part of the world of the show, but among the 11 members there will also be figures expressing the world of the categories, people who make show, theater and music. It is therefore a choice that favours transparent and effective decisions. There is a very complex article, which I invite you to read, which talks about the establishment of this Higher Council, which is a body to which we attach great importance. The text of the law consists of seven articles, it is not very long but it is substantial, as we say in the Commission, because indeed, even if it is a delegated law to which the delegated decrees will add further content, it is very strict. We have written a lot in these seven articles, because we wanted to force the government in a certain direction. Article 1 refers to the Constitution, the EU Treaties and the Unesco Conventions. Paragraph 1 of Article 1 states that the Republic promotes and supports the spectacle as an indispensable factor for the development of culture and an element of cohesion and national identity. It seems to me that in these days when we talk so much about integration and identity, the show and music can be a powerful element of integration for all those who are in our territory, for foreigners and for those we aim to insert and that we always hope can have citizenship. Therefore, with respect to this, the norm to our examination also collects this strand, because we have felt and believe that cohesion and national identity must pass through these forms of art and through culture. We recognize, then, the educational and educational value of the show and from here start the specific interventions planned for the school. 3 percent of the FUS, as I will say later, will go to school with a specific agreement. As you remember, we did it for the cinema and we did it also for the show. 3 percent of the FUS will go to school, because the educational value of the show within the school is enormous and we believe that this aspect should be valued. As far as social usefulness is concerned, entertainment activities are linked to the new discipline of the third sector. We have done the great reform of the third sector, and there is Senator Lepri who followed it, and we have voted in favour of this law of which we are very proud. With regard to associations, companies and other entertainment agencies that will respect the additional conditions laid down by the decrees delegated to the reform of the third sector, it will be possible for them to fall within the incentives and facilities provided. Therefore, there is harmonisation of these aspects which we consider to be fundamental. Paragraph 2 introduces a general definition of the entertainment activities that the Republic intends to promote and support, identifying them in those carried out in a professional way and characterized by the presence of artistic and technical professionalism and an audience in a unique context that cannot be reproduced. That's the definition. If anyone asks for the definition of show, go and read the one contained in the law because we have reasoned a lot on it taking inspiration from international sources and of course from everything we could put on the field to give a correct definition. As I said, the show is given by the presence of artistic and technical professionalism and an audience in a unique context that cannot be reproduced. Thus, in addition to the theatrical, opera, concert and choral activities, the activities of contemporary folk music and classical and contemporary dance are explicitly recognized - and this is the first time that happens in a state law. Of course, there was talk of dance in ministerial regulations, but it had never been mentioned in a law and we, on the other hand, have also given it this very important "citizenship" that had so far been lacking. Then there are circus activities because, as you know, there is also the circus and the travelling show, activities with an interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary character because if we make a law now in 2017 it is clear that we must also think about the new forms of show. Many shows are now interdisciplinary or multidisciplinary (not the same thing). Finally, carnivals and historical re-enactments for the first time will also have access to the FUS. So historical carnivals and re-enactments are included in order to involve as much as possible all the different forms of entertainment, and to spread as much as possible the hand of culture, as far as it can be done with funding, a bit in all sectors. How many of our municipalities organize beautiful historical reenactments that are almost never supported but that represent the history of that people and that community and, at the same time, are also a true cultural and historical proposal also for the young people of those communities. For these reasons we also wanted to enhance historical reenactments. Among other things there is also another specific provision on historical reenactments that is being examined by the Chamber and that we would like to carry forward. Of course we also recognize the tradition of Italian dance bodies (I see my colleague Giro, who proposed an amendment on this subject that has been accepted and is already inside the text), as well as the role of street artists and the activities of the experimental centers: there are many applications of a technological nature, so we also recognized experimentation and research, documentation and training in the performing arts. Then we talk about the interaction between the show and the cultural and educational supply chain, one of the aspects to which the Minister has held much, but which we have shared; I think about the connection with tourism, with the wonderful places of our Italy and therefore their enhancement through the show. We therefore invite all those who make a show to go around, in Italy. We have the idea of sending out from their theatres not only the subjects who are accustomed to doing so, but also the lyric foundations, to bring music and culture, especially in exceptional places related to tourism. We have also greatly valued the entertainment activities carried out with the direct involvement of young people, therefore the youth orchestras, an exceptional and widespread experience in the territory. We have mentioned these realities and we have also given them the founding value of national identity and formative value. I am referring therefore to the entertainment activities carried out with young people and to the theatre created for young people, a strand of intervention that has developed in recent years and which has a very interesting value at national and international level. There is funding from the European Union that goes specifically in this direction, so we have taken this into account and have introduced it into our text. Another very important aspect is that of territorial rebalancing. I do not see Senator Petraglia, who has worked with us on the territorial rebalancing of the offer also with reference to the geographically disadvantaged areas. It is a very important issue, because in some territories (I think of the Centre-North) there is a strong private that intervenes a lot, banks that have a tradition in financing the show. Of course, there is a need for state support for entertainment in areas where the economy is weaker and there is less investment from the private sector; in that case we introduced the art bonus, which I will talk about later, but clearly there is a need for greater openness compared to these issues. We must therefore consider the disadvantaged areas that need investment: I think of the outskirts of the big cities, but also the places that remain isolated; therefore we have also promoted the creation of entertainment spaces in the municipalities with less than 15,000 inhabitants. We had already done so for cinema and now we have introduced this forecast also in relation to this sector: municipalities with less than 15,000 inhabitants can have more attention in relation to these funds made available to create places of aggregation and entertainment. We have chosen the limit of 15,000 inhabitants because we want the spread of culture to be promoted everywhere in small municipalities. I was talking about the interaction and forms of collaboration with the school system and the other very important aspect, that is the diffusion of the Italian show abroad. The funding for internationalization was virtually zero; on this there was an effort by the Ministry; we felt it necessary (and in the delegations this will be written very clearly) to push much for internationalization. Our spectacle, our culture and our Italy must go abroad because we are teachers in this and there is no need to say so in this House. Compared to this, it is clear that there is a need for support. If you have to move an orchestra, there are no longer the resources of the past, but we were used to doing shows around the world with our orchestras. Lately there had been some kind of closure from this perspective and here we try to remedy it. The other important aspect is an ad hoc delegation for entertainment workers. This is another of the most delicate points. Mr President, this is a point that has never been sufficiently addressed and we know what the situation of the workers of the show is. I call them that, but they are artists who give us enormous emotions and, unfortunately, due to the intermittent nature of this work, they obviously fail to have adequate recognition. There are months when there is no social security protection for them. There is also a delay of the unions to this. We've had a lot of auditions on this and I've found a big delay on the union side. There is a need, with regulatory support, to put in place a real energy to protect these workers and to consider that this type of work is something really important, because it affects the formation of the Italian people and citizens. Therefore, it must be understood that it is necessary to give an acknowledgment. This is a delegation that we will follow very carefully, because it contains one of the most delicate points of the law. The workers of the show must finally be supported in a different way. I will not explain some of the details of the measure, but I will deliver the report. There is also the definition - another important aspect - of the Single Fund for entertainment. First, as you know, the FUS was unique; now this law distinguishes between resources destined for lyrical-symphonic foundations and resources destined for the rest of the entertainment world. This serves to create clarity and to give greater responsibility to those who in recent years have had more delicate situations, i.e. lyric-symphonic foundations. We know that when there was a problem in one or more foundations - as happened, unfortunately - the FUS focused on the financing of those very few people. We have decided, in agreement with the Government, that there will finally be a distinction between the two funds for which no one, if he has any problems within the foundations, will be able to refer to all the FUS, which will be more than 360 million and, therefore, there will be a division in 40 and 60 percent. This is an important and very innovative aspect. Thanks to the support of Senator Montevecchi, who has done a remarkable job on this matter (I would like to acknowledge this), we have discussed a lot about the role of the superintendents. In the principle of delegation, we have placed greater responsibility on supervisors. We know that it is often the mayors or presidents of the Region who have to take care of the serious situations that have occurred within the foundations in recent years. We have said that the greatest responsibility must be for the superintendent, for the one who manages and not for a board of directors who then takes on all the sensitive issues. To overcome the financial difficulties faced by the lyric-symphonic foundations since the reform of the lyric institutions, which took place in the 1990s, it is expected that the supervisor will be responsible for the economic management of the foundations. In response to a requirement coming from the foundations, in this law we have moved to 31 December 2019 the deadline by which the foundations will have to respect the new parameters for the purpose of classification as a lyrical-symphonic foundation rather than as a lyrical-symphonic theatre (the well-known question of downgrading). We have given one more year than required by Law No 160 of 2016, which provided for the deadline of 31 December 2018 to reset the accounts. If after this term the accounts will not be in order, it will become lyrical-symphonic theatre and no longer foundation. We then worked on the issue of quality. Many protests have been raised for a management that, in recent years, seemed very tied to the quantity (how many spectators, how many seats occupied) rather than the quality of the shows. Of course there was also quality, and I have to say this for a fact of justice towards the Ministry and the standards issued to this point. However, in our opinion, there was an excessive assessment in favour of quantity, and therefore linked to the number of shows, spectators and so on, and this is not always a reference to quality. We have therefore wanted to stress with force and write in the law, so the delegation will have to take into account the quality of the productions. This was also very much called for by oppositions, which were very ready on this point with amendments already accepted in the Commission's examination. Then there is the theme of artistic mobility, at European and international level: basically - as I have already said - there is a need to export our art. And special attention has been paid to young people's projects (under the age of thirty-five) in several points of the law. Basically, every measure is also aimed at young people under thirty-five years of age, because we want them to devote themselves to the show. Those who dedicate themselves to the show, are generally considered by families one who will never gain anything or have fun, but who basically does not undertake a trade. Instead, we want to favor them, because we believe that younger people must devote themselves to the show to create a better society, proposing, deepening and working on their own consciences and souls and the people to whom they propose the shows. We want this to be included in the law. There is also the activation of extraordinary plans for the restructuring and technological updating of the theatres, which is also a very important point. Shows now have a high level of technology and can not always be performed in any venue. Therefore, we give resources for the technological upgrade of the theatres. Let me remind you of another point: the organization and production of contemporary folk music. It is important that contemporary folk music and the figures that cling to the organization and production of contemporary folk music are taken into account. And we did. In the law there is also this point - it had never happened before - through the introduction of the thread of contemporary folk music. As far as circuses are concerned, there has been a major debate on them (debate in the Commission, in society and in our squares), which will not end. Our position is to arrive at a gradual elimination, of course, in the times that will be deemed necessary, of the animals from the circus. True, animals have always represented the circus. But the sensitivity gained in recent years is bringing about the birth of new forms of circus show and, therefore, we must devote ourselves to this too. No longer exists the capture of the wild animal that is brought to the circus. Of course we are talking about animals born in the circus, well cared for and also very valued. But in the collective imagination and in the evaluation made then in the Commission, and also by the Government the idea of starting gradually, precisely through a process of accompaniment, towards a new form of circus show that does not include the use of animals. Compared to this we have found a balance, with a gradual elimination of the use of animals. The measure, therefore, aims to promote the gradual transformation of circus shows. I've already spoken about 3% at school. On matters relating to the authorisation of public security, here too we wanted to simplify, of course in conjunction with the regions. And so, we talked about programme agreements. It is clear, in fact, that entertainment and culture are elements on which the Regions also legislate. As for the art bonus, we have extended it to everyone. Currently it was only intended for lyrical-symphonic foundations and now we have extended it to all forms of entertainment, and therefore also to festivals, to all subjects and to various activities. If there is a liberal dispensation, it is well received throughout the entertainment world. This is also a very requested innovation, with respect to which we speak of the theatres of tradition, of concert-orchestral institutions (the ICO), of national theatres and of important cultural interest, of festivals, companies and centers of theatre production and dance, as well as of non-profit distribution circuits that carry out their activities exclusively in the entertainment sector. This too, therefore, is a very important aspect of our measure. Article 6 of the measure provides for the safeguard clause with regard to the Special Statute Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano. In article 7 we have some other reference to the lyrical-symphonic foundation that will then be called lyrical-symphonic theatre. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the draft law is a real sign of discontinuity with regard to the past. It is a reversal of the trend for an investment - as you will see and have already seen - stable strategic on the show to enhance the extraordinary points of excellence of the Italian tradition and lay the foundations for promoting the economic, social and cultural development of our country, also through culture and live show. Finally, I would ask for permission to hand over the rest of my speech. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Panizza.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u22	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u23	Mr President, for a long time now, for some forty years now, the world of live entertainment has been waiting for a law that would give our artists a tool capable of creating innovation, dissemination of culture, the art of entertainment and also economic development. The live show has always represented an important part of Italian culture and has its roots in a millenary tradition. Our rich cultural world has long been in need of a reform of the complex legislative provisions on the organization and management of lyrical-symphonic foundations. The current discipline on theatre, prose, music, dance, traveling performances and circus activities was revised and rationalised, renewing the legislative provisions through the drafting of a single normative text called the code of the show. In fact, the entertainment code streamlines and simplifies administrative procedures, rationalises expenditure and encourages the improvement of the artistic and cultural quality of activities, as well as the use by the community. The world of live entertainment was therefore suffering from the lack of adequate standards, adequate resources, adequate and forward-looking vision, both European and international. Today, as Senator Di Giorgi noted in her report, we are facing organic reform. In recent months the numerous hearings of the 7th Commission have brought to light problems, limitations and difficulties for the entertainment workers. Many have been the testimonies of organizations, groups of professionals and associations that have asked - and to this the bill has given answer - promotion and support to the various worlds of the show and to the various artistic expressions, considered indispensable to the development of our culture and to the cohesion of our identity, to the spread and promotion of European and international our art, vehicle of our tourist offer. The live performance is, however, also a fundamental educational occasion and - as I have just said - a contrast to situations of psychological and social distress, present in the whole and varied world of the school. It is also an occasion for the integration of people with difficulties and disabilities, but also and above all for the enhancement of talents. It is not by chance expected that the activities of the show will be carried out with the direct involvement of young people from childhood and that a percentage of the flows will be destined to activities in the school; this will seal the educational, educational and social value of the show, a value sustained by all means. All performers should also be supported and, therefore, significant compensation is needed. It is well known that the rewards in the entertainment world are modest because of the modest contractual capacity of those who devote themselves to such activity. It is necessary, however, to find greater recognition. And the effort in this regard on the various sectors of the show has been and will be addressed during the examination of the delegation at work. Some of the problems highlighted by the associations have highlighted the criticalities of the social security system. In particular, the musicians have invoked measures to overcome the criticalities of some complex regulations on work that determine the consequent submerged; social security regulations; excessive costs of Siae tariffs and the insuperable economic problems of music schools. Finally, with this measure, we will be able to give to the artistic professionalism of theaters, dance, music, opera, concert and choral activities, circus activities, traveling performances, historical carnivals, historical re-enactments, but also of the band complexes, street artists, theatre for children, and many other contributions, of the important tools of public support and development that enhance the quality of the offer and productions, the plurality and peculiarity of the languages of art. We will be able to promote the dissemination of the Italian show abroad, with attention to everyone, but specifically to young artists, as the rapporteur has already pointed out. Finally, generational replacement will be promoted in order to enhance new talents and attention to new technologies. The drafting of a normative text, the code of the show, will therefore give greater effectiveness and organicity both to administrative procedures, and to the artistic-cultural quality of the productions, encouraging innovation, rationalizing and strengthening the interventions of support of the State. It is important that actions be harmonised with those of local authorities through programme agreements. Finally, I would like to stress how much this complex legislative process, carefully followed by the Commission and closely related by the rapporteur, has been attentive to the enhancement of the enormous heritage of our show, the works of young emerging artists, thanks also to spaces dedicated to television platforms and the production of our works in Europe and around the world. Young artists in particular, but also other workers in the sector, will be able to access facilitation measures through facilitated credit instruments. As far as the criteria for allocating the Single Fund for entertainment are concerned, I would stress the central importance of the provision of contributions which enhance the quality of production and, therefore, the selective financing of projects by young people under the age of thirty-five. I do not want to repeat what has already been said, but I will just mention the territorial rebalancing: the regions affected by the earthquake will be able to make use of important funding. Finally, the Show Board aims to provide support tasks and policy proposals for the sector, to ensure analysis, monitoring and evaluation of public policies on the subject. I conclude by expressing a lively satisfaction for the realization of an important result, which will see the increase of the resources of the FUS, the establishment of strong collaborations with the world of the school, the extension of the art bonus to the whole world of the show, the legal recognition to many events that were not recognized before. The quality of the measure is indeed a great and responsible investment that we assume towards future generations. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u24	She's registered to speak Senator Idem. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this draft law, also in view of the fact that the rapporteur has made a wide and very effective presentation of all the measures, is a useful opportunity to make some general reflections, because it contains a series of social and working values that go far beyond the explicit aims of the text we are examining. We live in a time when the production of consumer goods and materials is increasingly linked to artificial intelligence and technological developments, with the consequence of relegating to the margins those human qualities that come into competition with them. In this perspective, individual creativity and artistic abilities, which find forms and modes of expression through activities such as theatrical, lyric, musical or circus (which are addressed in this provision), acquire particular importance, because they contrast the sterile and metallic mechanism of a standardised and automated process, which no longer knows what to do with man, the interactive and situational dynamics that distinguish human relations and from which man, being social by definition, cannot ignore. There is a tendency to consider cultural activities as a leisure activity, as that extra luxury that we can afford if everything else works, i.e. when the accounts are not in red, when the unemployment figure is not a threat, when the economy pulls. By reasoning in this way, however, we ignore the intrinsic functions of those activities that we can safely and succinctly define as cultural. For example - I have spoken of a general value - the ultimate meaning of a theatrical show lies not only in the delight of the actors when they fall into a role, but also in representing stories that are, in fact, representative of the themes that people live every day in the emotional, social and working spheres. Cultural activities are therefore not only a delight, but are, in fact, a mirror to society, the glue with which it shapes its identity and does so interactively, cooperatively. This attitude is one of the most powerful responses to the challenges facing our future. Coming out of the great wars of the past century, which have recorded the extermination of millions of people because other millions of approved individuals have uncritically followed the crazy ideas of some leaders, psychopaths in power, has taken an instinctive response to these tragedies, characterized by a spasmodic enhancement of individualism, but passing from one extreme to the other. Today we must realize that this attitude is not only individualistic but also selfish, at the cost of the common good. And this must find a shore in a collective sense the result of democratic processes that, however, are to be learned. And these processes are learned through new models that can also be elaborated through cultural activities, precisely. To promote the well-being of the community with the awareness that a personal renunciation involves a collective well-being that then makes the individual feel good and better; to give up an immediate advantage to enjoy a greater advantage in the future are an abstraction preceded by an interactive intellectual commitment. And this is an idea that matures also through cultural activity. This interactivity is indispensable as an antidote to an increasingly connected world through a simple click that, paradoxically, involves the risk of isolation. In fact, that click can be done in the solitude of the company of an iPhone and, then, why bother leaving home and confronting others in human relationships when you can solve everything with a click, purchase and play online? Let's just think about one of the ways in which young people resolve their conflicts with their peers: they press a button; which, in case of cyberbullying, could be a winning strategy, but all in all it is also important to learn living together. In this sense, neologism is a digital solitude that very effectively traces the new social phenomenon that we can remedy and counter through cultural activity, in every sense, that we can do together. Therefore - I repeat again - cultural activity, the one kneaded with its hands, can counter the lurking loneliness and act as a construction site for the new models that we need to face the future. Allow me a brief excursus on another potential that we can find in cultural activities tout court, which are not by chance also called expressive activities, because they give access to what moves people in their depths, emotions. Sometimes this House seems to me like a theatre that offers us bad shows. Think if the politicians of the future already had the opportunity today to discover their emotions, live them and compare them in a disinterested context, thus being able to receive the gift to act as a model. This is one of the meanings - let us say hidden - of the measure under consideration that induces me to say that culture is not a luxury commodity, but a raw material of which we can actually do without in order to shape our future. Generally speaking, it is necessary to be aware of and act accordingly also in the school sector, in the wake of the reform that has brought about some emerging structural needs of our system, beginning with the importance of emotions also at the level of learning. The power of positive emotions to ensure greater success in cognitive learning processes is now of scientific evidence. Such emotions must be discovered, discovered, expressed and valued also in the daily practice of our future schools. It is a process that can be enhanced through cultural activities that the draft law under consideration deals with through the system of laws governing them and so that it is not just a case of luck if this formidable resource is granted to students. Think that the mortification, punishment and even the same vow that we give to students triggers negative emotions that inhibit the learning process. On the contrary, positive emotions such as appreciation and encouragement are almost a fertilizer for those neuronal and neurophysiological processes that must take place in the brain to make learning processes possible. This, therefore, goes in the direction of strengthening everything that helps the expression and recognition of one's emotions. I shall end by returning to the subject I introduced at the outset: artificial intelligence and the new technologies that are increasingly replacing man; a development that understandably is experienced as a threat and that requires the redefinition of the work theme. The draft law in question must also be considered a resource which aims to increase the social consideration of the sector which, besides its aims - let us call them noble - of artistic expression, with all the values that I have tried to list, is a contribution to a redefinition of the works of the future. Colleagues, today our young people are learning notions with techniques of the past that must prepare them for the trades of the future; trades that they will do in twenty years and that at 40% today we do not know yet. So, since work is increasingly being eroded by new technologies, we need to find other areas that we also recognise at the social level, with the necessary guarantees, as a real job. I find the draft law in question very valuable and useful and I therefore express my appreciation. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u26	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u27	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi, for the valuable work that she and the members of the Commission have done in these complex months of work, which led the Senate today to examine - and we hope to approve shortly - an organic design that reorganizes the provisions on live entertainment and entrusts the Government with important tasks of reordering. The measure, however, is certainly not isolated and I would like to say that this has been and is a very rich legislature, prolific in terms of cultural promotion, cultural intervention, so much so that I can say that, after years of inertia, we finally return to betting on culture as a key to building the future. I therefore greet the representative of the Government and thank Minister Franceschini. I think that on this point, perhaps, we need to open a reasoning because the strength of the measure and the energy that Rosa Di Giorgi has put in illustrating it only the consequence of a work that we have been carrying out for some years, in particular in the current legislature, to review together the extraordinary potential that Italy has, namely cultural heritage, cultural activities, historical institutions and young talents. It is through various measures that all this comes out and, therefore, I congratulate those who put their heads and hearts in it and have produced such an initiative today. After eight years - I turn to those who are always stinging the government and the majority - the budget of culture goes back to over 2 billion and this is an objective that we had set ourselves and we have achieved, and of which we are proud. This is the legislature of the art bonus, in which 4,250 patrons donated about - the Undersecretary will forgive me if they are not precise - 158 million and have financed 1,150 interventions. These numbers represent a cultural, social and innovative value. Also worth mentioning are the revolution of museums - even the one so much contested, but the numbers give reason to this Government - free Sundays, the record of over 45 million entrances in museums, the 500 euros for eighteen-year-olds, the integration of cultural policy with education policy and the new school. Culture for us is a challenge that the country must face to the full and within which there is the further valuable work that we have done for the reform of cinema, expected for fifty years, since the times of the New Italian cinema. After that, we had never again tried to do this. What we see in culture, therefore, is a great potential for economic and employment development, and not only a value of the heart, soul and mind. So let us continue, even with this measure, to bet on culture, as a key to building the future. And, on the substance, this measure goes in that direction. Cultural institutions and live entertainment needed a reorganization and structural reform. The laws of the sector, which had obviously in the eighties instructed and promoted positively certain sectors, were exhausted by successive changes and integrations and also by an obvious and natural innovation, the necessity of which was felt by the territories and at central level. Therefore, with the provisions on live entertainment contained in this measure, we enter the heart of a very important area of cultural and economic development. Even the first articles, which specify the objectives of the State and the Republic, promote culture as an indispensable factor for development and as an element of cohesion and national identity, are important. This is right and necessary so that the reorganization of the live show is not a bureaucratic fact, but falls within a collective consciousness of the country, in which the national identity becomes an important objective and sees culture as an important subject of promotion and cohesion. The report has been well illustrated by the rapporteur, who has obviously made use of valuable work by the Commission, in which many have contributed and of course should be thanked. Then there are some very innovative aspects that I would like to highlight, such as integration with the school world, with 3% of the Fund that comes into play not only to support cultural activities in the school, but also to create an intelligent audience, that is not only hidden behind the screen of a personal computer or a smartphone, but also knows how to fall in love with a theatrical show, a film at the cinema, is conscious. And if you don't do it in schools, you don't. And, if we do, it means - as I said at the beginning - that there is a plan that is confirmed also in these very important choices, as well as in those of a more organizational nature and for the lyric foundations; and the delegation to the Government is opportune and necessary, because they become hydrovore that absorb too much resources compared to the expectations of the territory. The need, therefore, to reorganise expenditure and skills exists and is rightly confirmed in the measure under consideration. Then there is the need to expand the examples of live entertainment and also in this field there is innovation and will to perceive how much in the territory, in our beautiful cities, rich in great cultural heritage, has grown and lived, and precisely in this legislative instrument can find its opportunity. As the rapporteur has said, the High Council for Performing Arts is a new body, parallel to others, so there is no disorganicity in the different sectors but finally an organic nature of consultative instruments that must actually be supportive and objectively those places where a speech of national identity and promotion is being developed. I would also like to emphasise - and I am particularly grateful to the rapporteur and, of course, to the Government who agreed - the intervention included in Article 4, which contains financial provisions for the increase of the Single Fund for entertainment and measures for cultural activities in the areas affected by the earthquake. This is the first time that in an instrument not realized for the emergency, and therefore in an instrument of other nature, in an organic instrument on the show, we think of the earthquake areas and it is said that reconstruction is not only reconstruction of houses and roads, but also passes through culture. And, therefore, the reconstruction of cultural heritage and cultural activities becomes essential to get out of a state of marginalization, loneliness and regret towards the State that seems so far away. I thank you, therefore, for this provision because there will never be rebirth of the territories if we think only of the houses and not of the souls, the hearts, the heads that need to review their theatres and their showrooms. And now is the time to do this in those places, in the ancient, spectacular villages, where today we must think of a development project that cannot be removed from the landscape and cultural context, from the ancient history that re-emerges. I conclude by saying that investing in culture is good not only - as has already been said - for the heads, hearts and souls, but also for the economy of the country. In this globalized world we are recognized as superpower only on culture. And, then, let's play this card to the full, and let's demonstrate to the country, even with these important gestures, that we not only want to reorganize the bureaucracy, that is important anyway, but also give back momentum and possibility to glimpse an exit from the state of deep malaise in which our country pours. And such a vision is present in the provision and I am happy to be able to say it today in this forum, to be able to tell the country and to share with so many colleagues and with the Government an important initiative for Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u28	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u29	Mr President, we have heard so many important and significant comments from the rapporteur too, and I welcome her commitment to this measure. But - as they say - sometimes the devil hides in the details and the bill contains a detail - which unfortunately is not - that profiling an aspect that I definitely consider unconstitutional, and however surreal, without foundation, at the moment when it establishes that, in the matter of circus activities, the Government is delegated to revise the provisions in force, reaching the gradual elimination - attention: elimination and not reduction - of the use of the animals in the conduct of the same. With the bill we're considering, we're deluding the government to send home thousands of circus workers. Of course, the circus representatives have pointed out to us that a circus without animals is a dead circus and all attempts to make them live simply with acrobats or jugglers have failed miserably. So we, with two lines, delete hundreds of years of history, culture and tradition; a tradition that goes from Fellini to the beautiful prayer of Totò in the movie "The most comical spectacle in the world," which I will have the chance to read in its most significant parts to shed light on the almost familiar relationship between the workers of the circus and their animals, who put before themselves in the prayer of the circus. Of course, in today's ignorant Italy one struggles to understand who Totò was, what was the circus and this culture. This prohibition is really hallucinating. Let's not talk about a circus, but about a movie theater. It is claimed that circuses cannot use animals, even dogs or horses. Recently I went to the circus with grandchildren; during the show Zorro's parody was represented: a person was riding Zorro who came in and pretended to fight with the bad guards. Well, according to the bill under consideration the horse can no longer enter the circus, can no longer be used, the trained dog can no longer work. Animalists claim that animals cannot be allowed to work. Right. Then we must repeal the horse, the dressage, the use of horses for handicapped children and of course when we see dogs rescue from the avalanches or from the ruins of the earthquake people who need help, it is a scandal, because those animals are trained and put to work. If a nineteenth-century film is shot in Rome or with scenes of medieval battles what do we do, do we use horses for film fiction? If we make a film about Africa or Tarzan, can we use animals to set it in a film logic? According to this logic, it cannot be done. Beyond a terrifying scare against the rights of freedom, one thing is to say that everywhere and always animals must be treated in such a way as not to be harmed, that animal welfare goes in all ways exalted, that they cannot be abused, that strict controls are needed. I do not know whether the senators know what the current legislation provides. Fundamentalist animalist associations such as the Antivivisection League (LAV) denounce the circuses, the dog breeders but who is going to advise the magistrates, on the basis of an agreement made with the then Finance Guard, to check whether the welfare conditions for animals actually exist? That's what LAV consultants do. And what happens in the next trial? There are two cases: if the accusations are all filed, the State pays the costs; if there is a basis in the accusations, compensation is requested for the damage which is collected directly by the LAV. The amount paid by the breeder or trader or by someone who works with animals (e.g. a racetrack), cashes the LAV. We have a perverse mechanism, resulting from a 2004 legislation, which provides for the possibility of making hundreds of complaints, which are actually made when extremists do not resort to bombs or burn trucks (there are dozens and dozens of cases of eco-terrorism), and if these hundreds of complaints are unfounded they pay the state, if they are justified there is compensation collected by the LAV. Do you realize the perversion of this system? I say this also in defense of those who appreciate and love animals and say that a dog cannot stay in a circus to work. I'm talking about the bitches jumping. Similarly, a horse cannot be in a circus and we are not talking about an exotic animal. Imola's famous story with the death of the giraffe led to a national scandal, but the animal died because of the animalists who made her escape. They went at night, and when she was locked in a cage, they let her out. The animal began to roam through Imola and those of the circus sought in all ways to safeguard their heritage and their collaborator. It was a very important asset to them. Eventually she was framed in a courtyard and, despite the circus's begging the guards and city guards not to shoot a sleeper because the giraffe has a particular physiology, they hit her and killed her. Then the mayor said the circus had to leave because a giraffe died. The giraffe, in fact, was killed by the animalists and not by those of the circus. We have to agree here in the Senate: do we want to keep Siena's palio or do we want to repeal it? Brambilla wants to repeal it, and I want to keep it. Let's have a debate about Siena and other very popular events in our country. Do we want to keep the horse, or do we want to repeal it? Do we want to maintain or repeal dressage? Is it permissible to have racetracks or not? I'm moving on. I understand very well that people today find in animals a source of companionship and compensation for other relatives who may be missing. I don't miss the billionaire business behind the expanding animal market. I think about the delicious treats for dogs, cats, canaries etc. However, if I were to be a consequence, I should say that it should be forbidden to keep a dog in the apartment. If on the fifth floor there is a dobermann or a San Bernardo, I wonder how those who contest the presence of animals in circuses keep an animal of that size in an apartment. It should be said that anyone who wants an animal must have a courtyard or a garden or, even, should let him live in a situation of freedom because being forced inside an apartment, maybe even dressed or undressed in summer according to fashion, can be a violence on animals. I, however, do not come to those conclusions, but to totally different conclusions and, that is, that once the regulation rightly concerns animal welfare, once there are specific rules for keeping animal welfare at all levels, we cannot move forward in terms of prohibitions and misunderstandings. Ladies and gentlemen, I recall that four years ago, when we passed the law, forcing European legislation, which prohibits testing mice for drug-related abuse diseases, it was said that if Europe had pointed out that we were going beyond regulation, it would go backwards. We are in European infringement and Europe told us that we could not do so. But after four years the omelette was made and the mice are safe. I have ten witnesses of an argument with myself, in December in the center of Modena, with a table of animalists that ended with the hope of a lady that Senator Giovanardi would end up in a crematorium oven, because I contested the fact that mosquitoes that carry malaria should be eradicated. This lady, backed by the animalists, told me that I was one who deserved to end up in a crematorium oven because mosquitoes don't touch each other because they are God's creatures. I told him that maybe he felt that way because he lived in Modena, but that if he had lived in Africa maybe he would have thought otherwise. Now that the case of malaria has appeared and in Rome we have this re-emergence of infections, animalists, Taliban extremists, must we protect and safeguard or exterminate the mosquitoes that carry these diseases? I say we kill them. The mice, the sewer tops, the panthegans (call them as you wish), we must safeguard them or, for public health, we must eliminate them and possibly, to save men, women and children, also use, as explains the international law that one cannot put a drug in circulation if it has not been tested on at least one primate? We closed Green Hill, yay: 200 people at home, but the same dogs arrive by ship from the United States; instead of being raised here, because in Italy you can not, they are bred there and - I repeat - arrive by ship in Italy from the United States, because if you do not experience the primates you cannot put on the market a new drug. It is those new drugs that then save the life of the husband, the wife, the children; they are the ones that have kept the medicine going. The latest events we have been interested in, that of thalidomide, concern thousands of people born without limbs in dramatic situations because they had not experienced on animals and pregnant guinea pigs. If they had, we would have saved ourselves thousands of thousands of people who have spent their lives in a dramatic situation. The moment you go into the logic of prohibition, you go into a surreal logic. As for the world of circuses and entertainment, we have tried with the Minister - I must also acknowledge this to the rapporteur - to have done everything possible to do something reasonable. Someone has to explain to me what the prohibition means: circuses don't, and everything else? Why are you mad at the circuses? Is the circus culture annoying, even once determined, established and controlled animal welfare? I also remember that, while in a circus the animal is protected and cared for, in nature those same animals have the problem of arriving alive in the evening, of not being devoured, because nature is wild. Lions and tigers are bad, because they kill other animals, but if they don't find prey, their puppies starve, or a crocodile eats them. Nature is like this: it is an incredible evil. Shall we close the zoos? Do we want animals to see only those who go to Africa to make safaris and have the money to go to those places? I am not even talking about exotic animals, because - everyone knows - these in circuses are now in exhaustion because it is impossible to import. I'm talking about horses, dogs, affectionated animals. Someone has to answer me: why can't there be horses in a circus to do a show with? Why can't there be dogs? Why not in the circus and in the cinema? Why not in the circus and in the horse race? Why not in the circus and at Siena's palio? Why not in the circus and people's apartments? I'd like someone to explain this to me and explain to me how to ban it by law. The Senate of the Republic forbids, because this is written in the text of the bill: "revision of the provisions in the matter of circus activities specifically aimed at the gradual elimination of the use of animals in the performance of the same circus. "Graduale" means: I put you in the cell of death and tell you that sooner or later I will kill you, but gradually. The prohibition is total, but the gradual prohibition means that you get to totally prohibit the use of animals perhaps giving some time to eliminate them, that is to say to die: because it is certain that, once you have eliminated the animals, you have killed the circus and its tradition, its history, its artists. We're talking about shows in general. In the collapse of the show, the cinema, the theater and everything else, the only sector, even if they give him money; that he did not have a crisis and that continues to have a great popularity with families and children is just the circus. The circus is not in crisis, but is killed. Just go and see the data, know everyone. SANTANGELO (M5S). But where? Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) They are public figures and have also been taken to the Commission, where we have discussed them. It's formal data. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Yes, it's formal data. In the collapse of presences in theatres and cinema, one area that still defends itself is that of the circus, which is among other things the most popular show that there is, because it is the classic show for families. I understand, then, that here compared to everything that is history, tradition and culture, such as Gassman, Totò, Fellini, we start laughing, but we will talk about it next week. Going on like this, in fact, we will pull down the statue of Christopher Columbus and we will do incredible things, erasing all our past, going after Taliban, visionaries and people who want to destroy everything. But things should be motivated. There are a number of amendments tabled by colleagues from the League and myself, which call for a very simple thing: instead of a gradual elimination, a gradual reduction. Which means the dog can stay. Zorro's show with the horse at the circus can be there, just as there can be in cinema and theatre. In fact, I was told episodes of when Visconti was the theatre director. If a comedy was set in Padua, he wanted the Padua hens and that on the stage there were chickens of that breed; and if there was a need for a horse, he would bring a horse of that breed. Even today, it is not forbidden to take a horse to the theatre or if, it represents Aida, bring elephants. If we go on with this step, however, it is clear that this can no longer be done because it is the exploitation of animals. How, then, will you bring an animal to a theater to entertain the audience, if the comedy also requires the presence of animals? It's the same logic as the circus. Why isn't it forbidden? Why is it not forbidden? I didn't have any answers to these questions. If it were just a cultural issue, a tradition that exalted us and great facts in the world, such as the Italian circus, it would already be an important thing. But do we disdainfully look at the about ten thousand people who stay at home and lose their jobs? Italy is doing well economically, and if another sector becomes a sector of unemployed people, it is not important. In fact, it is not easy for the artists of the circus, who live within this context of families, to recycle. But recycle where? Who then takes charge of these situations? But for the benefit of whom does this prohibition go? These questions will be put to you and will be put back to you with the amendments. It seems to me that turning elimination into a reduction is a reasonable measure. If that is not the case, the Constitutional Court will intervene and there will be an extension of the measure to other areas, because it is clear that if the prohibition passes there, it will have to be extended. Then I invite some of those who support these positions to show up in Siena, maybe the day before the Palio, and go to have a debate with the Sienese citizenship on the Palio of Siena and the use of horses. Congratulations! They will show up and realize that there is a popular culture, there is popular wisdom, there is popular rooting. Because when traditions have been going on for centuries and have the consent of the people, of the organized minorities, they cannot cancel them. Maybe they won't be attending if they don't love the Palio of Siena. If they do not love the circus, they will not go to the circus but do not prevent sixty million Italians from going to the circus if they want to go or if they want to go to see a traditional show. Therefore, this measure will obviously, as it is built, not be voted on. If it is changed in this fundamental point of principle, however, we will gladly make our contribution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u30	Senator Giro is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u31	Mr President, I have been taught that in politics one must have above all a quality: memory. Otherwise the risk is only to make rhetoric. You have to remember the facts. These are also quite trivial facts, which now belong to the parliamentary and political chronicle, to the events of our country, which are strongly related to the world of culture. Fortunately, in fact, Italy is an extraordinary country from the point of view of the landscape, which is very different and very rich, especially with regard to culture. I have listened with great interest to both the rapporteur's introductory report and the previous speeches, and I must say that they have all been very detailed and detailed, but with little memory. We cannot say, in fact, that for the live show, so-called for its uniqueness and not repeatability, nothing has been done in these decades; it cannot be said, as I have heard from Senator Pezzopane, usually very informed, that nothing has been done for cinema for fifty years, until the law Franceschini last year. I remember that for the cinema there is legislative decree n. 28 of 2004 of the Berlusconi government - the famous law Urbani cinema - that has completely modified the regulatory framework then in force, which provided for the guarantee fund, that is money thrown out of the window for films never made, never seen. In fact, someone could argue that a production received 2, 3, 4, 5, 10, 20, 50 million old lire to make a film little seen because the Italians are rednecks and see only the cinepanettones; instead no. Money has been given with the guarantee fund, the Veltroni fund, for a thousand billion lire counted. There is a very enlightening manual by my colleague Brunetta, whom I would invite to read, with the title: "Cinema, deep red", cinematic title but very well suited to describe the situation that we had inherited from the enlightened governments of the left. The guarantee fund had thrown away the money and - I add with low malice - strangely many of these intellectual directors, organic because faithful to the dictates gramsciano that culture is essentially power, political domination, therefore intellectual directors, lived in the historical center, in beautiful apartments and strangely had made one or two films little seen or had presented to the committee for film never made but financed. I have been asking for years - vox clamantis in the desert - a Commission of inquiry into the use of these thousand billion old lire for Italian cinema never done and never seen, cinema of deep red, without any reference to Dario Argento. Something has therefore been done, because in 2004 the center-right Government, the Government of Silvio Berlusconi, issued, even in that case, a legislative decree; even in that case it was a delegated law entrusted to the Government with a series of implementing decrees, the famous law Urbani, which introduced the automatic scoring system and a Commission that evaluated the projects. We ensured the minimum guaranteed, entering a minefield, that of Italian cinema dominated by the united lefts, united in that case, from the extreme left to the left of Government. And the reference system is still the one in force; it is true, in fact, that the Franceschini law simplified the Commission, because it was unique before and now is diversified into sections, but it is always a system of evaluation by score, which of course must verify the quality of the product, its international attractiveness, its connection with the markets; but that system is a Berlusconian system; 2004: law of cinema of the Minister of Culture of the then Urbani. 2004 was a golden year for culture, the year of the Government of the barbarians, as they defined it: they wrote books about barbarians in power; the great Settis, guru of national culture, which caused so much damage for this country (and I know something about it since I was undersecretary of cultural heritage), called us barbarians; here, dear Settis, always in 2004, but in January, a few months before the law of cinema, the barbarians approved the code Urbani on landscape and cultural heritage. That is, the Constitutional Charter, in defence of the cultural heritage still in force, which Settis defends with sword against the repeated incursions of the governments of the left, so responsible for the cementification of the territory. The governments of center-right - I remember it and the President who presides today was an authoritative member of the Assembly - defended the national landscape and Italian cinema with system measures. This was in 2004. I referred to the cinema, because Senator Pezzopane first said that there had been no intervention on the cinema for fifty years and then quoted the Franceschini law, but it simply has a fund of over 400 million cash and a simplified commission: money, money and money. I'd like to figure out how this money will be used. Memory must always help us, because this code of the show we wanted it. I appreciate the rapporteur, because he is a courageous, competent, rigorous and moral person, and he has done well to explain the contents of the code that I can also share to a large extent, but we must add a fact that is fundamental: this is yet another intervention - just read Article 2, the central one (there are only seven articles, but the most significant are three), which is largely dedicated to what? The answer is very simple: to the lyric-symphonic foundations, the great bubbon of Italian national culture, which produced up to 300-350 million debts. This is the reality: we made the code of the show to allow yet another intervention in support of lyric-symphonic foundations. Of course - and the rapporteur is right - they must be virtuous, i.e. such foundations under private law are administered as foundations are usually administered. They are no longer lyric bodies governed by public law, but, in fact, foundations governed by private law. Who arranged for this change? Since there are those who claim that there has been no intervention in cinema for fifty years and thirty-five years, since 1985 (the year of the establishment of the FUS), that there is no intervention in the show, but nothing is true: in 1996 there was the Veltroni law, which transformed the lyric bodies under public law into foundations under private law. It's a legal obnoxious, because you don't understand who does what, between state, public and private, and it has produced the failures we know. It was 1996. Then why should we not remember that always a Berlusconi government in 2010, with then Minister Bondi and in the role of undersecretary the modest speaker who speaks to you, approved the Bondi law on lyrical-symphonic foundations, which law was passed not with a vote of confidence, but after a night session, after seventeen, eighteen hours of debate, just because we wanted to confront ourselves? It wasn't a proxy law, it was a system law. We wanted that law, as Bondi says, to save the Italian opera, because at the time, after ten or fifteen years of Veltroni law, it was overwhelmed by 300-350 million debts and we considered it necessary to introduce criteria of administrative transparency. Above all, we asked the unions to reduce the part of the company's supplementary contracts and to return to the national contract, which had not been done for decades, and that it had been repulsed with a series of supplementary contracts that had spread privileges everywhere. Well, the unions' shields were raised and, then, in 2010, the left sided in defence of the corporate union. We held a ban, but the measure was weakened; we were in the government, we did not ask for trust, we dealt with the left spokesperson for the trade unions and the Italian lyrics were further filled with debts. In fact, after the so-called Bondi law of 2010, which President Calderoli will remember very well, we had to quickly and fury approve two decrees: the so-called decree Bray and the decree Franceschini, also full of norms for lyrical-symphonic foundations. The Bray decree, which I believe to be virtuous because it confirmed Bondi's approach (which had been depowered during the night of 2010), introduced, however, an extraordinary help - look a bit'- for the May musical Florentine, for the lyric renziana. Let us be clear then; we must remember and remember the rules that have been adopted over the decades. Centuries do not pass in vain: 1996, 2010, decree Bray in 2013, decree Franceschini in 2014; money, new posts, expenditure chapters, criteria never applied. Now we have the delegation law. This legislature will be remembered for trustworthy votes and delegated laws. The rapporteur explained the measure to us about strict criteria; the truth is that these criteria are on paper and are very generic. We will have to be vigilant and I have to say that the rapporteur is a guarantor in this regard, because for the cinema affair - which is also governed by a delegated law - she is following the development of things wisely, showing courage as part of the party that imposes delegation; I therefore feel sufficiently guaranteed. We will now await the development of the debate, without taking a preliminary view of the entertainment code. We are certainly very bitter because we held 40 hearings, listened to the categories and artists, but the product is always that of Francischinian memory: full powers to the Minister - and not to his structure - who decides everything in the secret rooms of the Roman College. This is unacceptable. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u32	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u33	Mr President, in dealing with the measure I would like to express first of all a certain concern precisely because it confers a broad delegation to the Government in respect of issues that are certainly important and important concerning culture, entertainment, but also the economy of our country in many respects. There is uncertainty about what will be the future measures that the Government will adopt with respect to a few articles in which some intentions and objectives are listed, which will obviously have to find substance through the action of the Government itself. We cannot therefore give full and complete confidence in such a measure; let us try to grasp its positive aspects, but let us highlight the shortcomings which have been the subject of our amending action. I would like to touch on one point which was the subject of the previous speech by my colleague: the future of lyric-symphonic foundations. I am quite concerned about the attitude that is emerging in this House with regard to these institutions. The rapporteur spoke of the division of the resources of the Single Fund for Performing Arts (FUS) between those destined for lyrical-symphonic foundations and those destined for all other sectors of Italian culture, from theatre to music, dance, traveling performances, carnivals and historical re-enactments, which are added to the disciplines that can be the subject of the distribution of such funds. I have found in this statement a substantial enthusiastic and favourable position and a certain rigidity in relation to the resources that will be allocated to the lyric foundations. The latter are considered by many to be bottomless wells, badly administered. This is partly true, but this approach does not cover all foundations. There are also quality entrepreneurial approaches that can of course be improved, but that cannot be destroyed by the fashionable position of those who claim that these foundations are now irrecoverable and represent only a burden for the state's coffers. They have been defined by a colleague of the Democratic Party of "hydrovores"; this is also a very negative connotation. Those who preceded me had a basically similar attitude, saying that foundations absorb so many resources that they are mismanaged. However, I would also like to highlight the situation of some foundations, which produce not only culture but also tourism and therefore represent revenue for the state's coffers, making the economy of some territories vital. I am referring in particular, of course, to what I know best than all the others, namely the Arena Foundation in Verona. I come from that territory and I know the history of this glorious Foundation, which has more than a hundred years of history, as the first opera-symphonic shows and the first festival date back to 1913. It has a great history and has a fundamental importance for the territory not only Verona, but the whole Veneto. I would like to remind you that tourism is one of the few industries that still produce income and that are still competitive in Italy, on which we must absolutely continue to invest. So the funds allocated for culture in general and for opera foundations in particular are very important. The opera foundations like that of Verona bring hundreds of thousands of people (not tens of thousands of people) to the city and our territory; this year the audience of the Arena Foundation who went during the summer season to attend the Arena festival has reached 380,000 units, that is 380,000 people who went to Verona, often and willingly coming from foreign territories and not from Italy itself. I am talking in particular about Germany and Austria, but also about France and other territories, such as Japan. These are people who bring money and resources, who serve not only for the purchase of tickets, but also to give work to hoteliers, restaurateurs and tourist activities in the broadest sense of the term. So this is not only a cultural heritage, but it is a tourist-entrepreneurial heritage that we must protect; and we cannot follow fashion by saying that, as they represent costs for the state's coffers, they have to be reduced in some way. This year in Verona we ran the risk of a forced liquidation of the Arena Foundation: a risk certainly due to some failures in management; this is impeccable. There are also the responsibilities of local authorities and supervisors. We must certainly admit that. There was a government intervention that, through the police station, tried to put things in order, with a virtuous work of the commissioners identified by the Minister. I should also like to say that we, as a political force, have called for the identification of the Commissioner, so we have not been hostile to this solution, because it was obviously necessary. But I would also like to remind you that if the Arena Foundation and I also believe all the others are in difficulty, it is because in recent years substantial cuts have been made to local authorities. In recent years, the foundations have not only experienced state contributions (FUS), but have also experienced contributions from local authorities; I am referring to the regions, municipalities, provinces and chambers of commerce. Well, it is clear that with the attitude of the last governments to rob the resources of the local authorities, these contributions have also failed. The Region can no longer give adequate resources, the Municipality can not do it and the chambers of commerce can not do it, for the reform that you have implemented and that has reduced the chamber rights, therefore the resources to be reinvested in the territory. Therefore, beyond the resources of the FUS, more or less homogeneous over the years, there has been a choice of the central state to penalize the territories and local authorities, with repercussions also on the tourist and cultural realities, which lived from these contributions. Therefore, there is a much wider responsibility of the State in the crisis of foundations, which is therefore not exclusive to those who have managed them. Do you need the contribution of private individuals, including in the management of foundations? Surely yes, the art bonus was a positive choice. However, I would like to point out that in Verona, as I believe in other territories, choices have been made to reduce expenses: the staff, artists, musicians, those who set up the shows - in short, all those who work in this area - have accepted the reduction of their remuneration and also the reduction of the two months of work during the winter season. There have therefore been efforts that must be recognised and appreciated and must not be undermined by a hostile attitude on the part of Parliament, let alone by the Government. There has been the possibility of joining the so-called Bray law and from this point of view I would urge the Government to allocate those funds which, although promised to the Arena Foundation in Verona, have not yet been set aside, despite the Commissioner's compliance with all the commitments to reduce the overall expenditure related to the management of the Foundation. The Arena Foundation in Verona has honoured its commitments and now it is up to the Government, through the funds provided in the so-called Brey law, to give that liquidity that is fundamental for the survival of this prestigious institution. In addition to these weaknesses and this attitude towards foundations which we consider to be dangerous, we would like to highlight another weak point of the measure under consideration. It is a part considered marginal by many parliamentarians, which concerns one of the many sectors of the show, but which must be defended, understood, understood and appreciated, as it is also part of the history of our culture. I am referring to traveling performances, particularly circuses, which are not simply neglected, but are even penalized by a rule that we think is ideological. In our opinion, the choice to include in the measure under consideration a rule that introduces as objectives of the Government the gradual elimination - not reduction, as has already been pointed out by my colleague Giovanardi - of the use of animals in carrying out these activities. The choice is ideological. Also in this case, we follow a fashion: the fashion of being animalists at all costs. I believe that no one in Parliament wants to defend the exploitation of animals, which is not part of our country's culture. In our country there is the culture, now consolidated, that intends to affirm the necessity and the duty to protect the animals, however can not be crossed a border that we consider insurmountable, establishing that, in absolute and under no circumstances, there can be a relationship not of exploitation, as someone wants to highlight, but affective between man and animal, as it manifests in the shows of the circus. We do not believe that the relationship between man and animal within the circuses is of exploitation and mistreatment, also because the use of animals in circuses is protected and regulated by rules that, if necessary, must perhaps be improved, even if I think that it is necessary not to perfect them, but simply to apply them more rigorously. I believe that cases of abuse are absolutely laughable and laughable and, if highlighted, of course they must be severely punished. The ideological vision that the circus must deprive itself of the presence of animals, which are inseparable protagonists of this spectacle, cannot now pass away. If the rule contained in the measure passes, without the adoption of the numerous amendments tabled, the death of Italian circuses will be decreed, with the loss of numerous jobs, or, alternatively, the flight abroad of all circus activities. Our circuses will leave our territory in search of more hospitable territories that do not have this ideological vision. I hope that in Parliament, in this sitting and in the next few, we can have a more balanced and responsible attitude, understand that the word 'deleting' must be deleted; it can be reviewed with'reduction', it is not the ideal solution but it can already be an improvement of the text. We can also establish a criterion according to which some animals can be phased out while others must remain, because they are part of the history of the circus and of this kind of spectacle that we absolutely want to protect. There are, that is, the margins for improving the text. I hope that in this House, unlike what happened in the Commission, there will be a more balanced and responsible attitude that also has this area of our culture at heart and - why not? - of our economy. However, we must understand that this measure will not only affect the keeping of all sectors of entertainment and culture, but will also affect the world of work. We must be absolutely aware of this; we must protect those who are performing, those who are cultural, but also those who are pursuing professions, perhaps niches, which may affect a few thousand people, but which must be protected and respected. These, in our view, are two of the weaknesses of this measure and we hope that in the amending action they can be corrected and improved. We also hope that this delegation law will be implemented by the Government respecting the role of Parliament. It is an excessive delegation not only to the Government but to the Minister, whom we do not share. It is a path that we would have preferred to have been traveled with greater involvement of the parliamentary classrooms, but we know that we are living in a limited, reduced democratic phase, in which Parliament risks assuming only the role of ratifying decisions taken by others. We do not accept this idea of democracy. We believe that Parliament represents the citizens more than the Government (the Government born in the parliamentary classrooms) and therefore we call for greater involvement on this measure and in general on legislative action by the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u34	She is registered to speak Senator Granaiola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a long period of work, the so-called connected live performance, which was removed last year from the film side, has now become a law and is expected to be implemented, through the adoption of the legislative decrees, which will in turn be passed on to the Chambers for their opinions. Compared to the initial text of the Senate Act 2287, the text proposed by the 7th Commission has significant additions, with the inclusion of Articles 3 to 7. The MDP Group therefore gives a positive overall assessment of the measure, while maintaining some fundamental reservations. 11:39 a.m. (Follows GRANAIOLA). Article 1 of the law before us contains the principles on live entertainment, on which it would be very difficult to disagree. Any citizen should recognize himself in these principles, since their enunciation is still in the values of the Constitution, which on this point treasure the great Italian cultural tradition in theatre, music, the production of popular entertainment in the territories and in the historical re-enactment. Paragraph 1 specifies that the Republic promotes and supports the spectacle as an indispensable factor for the development of culture and an element of cohesion and national identity. Reference is also made to the educational and formative value of these forms of expression that have - it is even trivial to remember - historical depth and tradition. Paragraph 2, in addition to providing a general definition of the entertainment activities that the Republic intends to promote and support, also lists the sectors of activity with some important integrations, such as, for example, the activities of contemporary folk music, circus activities, travelling entertainment and especially the historical carnivals that those who, like me, live in a city where they take place, know how important they have as artistic and engineering expression and from the tourist point of view, given the enormous turnout of audiences that they provide. Paragraph 4 specifies and promotes the aims of public intervention in support of entertainment activities, intervention that must promote and promote, first of all, the quality of the artistic offer, innovative projects, the transmission of knowledge and, in addition to many other things, the modalities of collaboration between the State and local authorities for the identification of unused spaces and buildings or of assets confiscated to be granted for entertainment activities. In the legislative delegation provided for in Article 2, aimed at reordering and rationalising the sector, the principles and guiding criteria for the exercise of the delegation are provided for, technicalities on which I do not wish to maintain the House. I refer in particular to paragraph 4 (c) in the part in which the technical-mathematical criteria for the allocation of resources are dealt with. From this point of view, I really hope that this law will put an end to the alms ad personam, such as the questionable deposit at the Theatre Eliseo in Rome, done just at the expense of the FUS. The new rules on tax incentives and support for young artists, as set out in Article 5, can also be welcomed. For the rest, perhaps, something could be removed in the delegation, which appears very, perhaps too wide and directly regulates the various aspects with the law. However, during the examination in the 7th Commission, which I thank for the work carried out, some amending and sub-eminent proposals were presented and accepted which followed three main lines of intervention: the protection of workers employed in the entertainment world, with particular attention to the remuneration aspects, the promotion of the dissemination of works by young artists and emerging composers, the wider use of the content of live entertainment by people with disabilities, according to the principles established by the International Conventions and applicable in this matter, in line with the provisions of the Law on cinema and audiovisual. However, important amendments have been tabled in this House which we intend to support and which we hope will be carefully examined in the debate in this House and which can be accepted, which concern - I recall some of them - the establishment of a fund for the development of investment in live entertainment to guarantee a sure and adequate state funding, to be fed also through self-financing, the establishment of a rotating fund for the restructuring and technological adjustment of theatres, the development of redistributive policies on national territory aimed at reducing the territorial disparity between North and South Italy and between centres and suburbs and to ensure a greater supply of shows for a youth audience, including through the creation of co-productions and the encouragement of an adequate contribution by local authorities. As for the critical notes, I can only begin with the look of the circuses. In this regard, I must sincerely say that what Senator Giovanardi said in his speech made me feel sick: I really suffered, because I wanted to have an hour at my disposal to be able to counter point by point the statements, even free ones, that have been made. I appreciate the work that has been done in the Commission, but I must say that I am not satisfied - and I do not think it is satisfactory - with the gradual elimination of the presence of animals in circuses, because "gradual" means so much and nothing. In my opinion, it would have been necessary to put a deadline, because it is not the collective imagination - and I am addressing the rapporteur - that makes us ask for this elimination, but the observation, also personal and also by the animalist associations, that in the circuses too often the animals do not receive the treatment they should receive. A critical notation I must also do with reference to lyric-symphonic foundations, which often fall under unfavorable conditions and for which there was definitely need for more resources. I often think of the precarious workers in the music sector, who contribute to enriching the lives of all of us and who really suffer from a poor management situation. We cannot deny that there is a situation of maladministration that no law in itself will be able to heal. In this regard, I would like to recall an important research done by the CGIL, entitled "Life by Artists," which I really invite everyone to read, because it gives us a very clear and precise picture of the situation of the workers of the show. The artistic and administrative management of an institution that must produce and disseminate culture such as theaters and historical arenas is not only a matter of norms but of people, of honesty, of human depth and, precisely, cultural. We have had several commissioners who, with the administration of the Commission, have risen not because there were different rules but because good practice, care and reasonableness have been introduced in employment relations and purchasing. From this point of view, the new body envisaged and regulated in Article 3, i.e. the Board of Governors, must, in practice, be a body that really gives direction to concreteness and good practice and that urges the Ministry to make a serious, not police and bureaucratic but of substance and accompaniment in the verification of the achievement of the aims of the bodies financed. I believe that this advice really can do a very important job, though, if seen from the perspective I have said. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I am chairing the House for a brief replacement. President Marcucci replaces me as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u37	She's enlisted to speak Senator Blondo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today, entitled "Delegate to the Government for the code of entertainment" is the result of the deletion of Article 34 of the draft law governing the cinema and audiovisual sector, which became law in October 2016. In this way it was intended to create an ex novo bill specifically to regulate theatrical, opera, concert, circus and travelling entertainment activities, keeping it well distinct from the provisions relating to the film sector. These are norms born in an attempt to combine the functions of social aggregation and cultural diffusion that must necessarily be recognized at the show with the ambition to increase the quality of theatrical performances and the audience of those who can enjoy them. However, although expected by the workers in the sector, the bill leaves many questions unanswered, due to the scarce resources made available by the measure, with the budget of the Single Fund for the show, which is increased, for each of the years 2018 and 2019, by 9,500,000 euros and 22,500,000 euros from 2020. In addition to this, Parliament's scope for manoeuvre is very limited, since it is a delegation to the Government, yet another of this parliamentary term. We have only been able to intervene on the principles and criteria that the Commission should take into account when it comes to defining the content of the rules. In the 7th Commission we have tabled amendments in an attempt to improve the text, paying attention to some issues which are sometimes considered marginal but which are not. Among these: the harmonization and coordination of state economic interventions with those of other territorial public authorities; the definition of the legal status of lyrical artist, a professional figure almost always at the mercy of the theatre or the opera foundation for which he works because of his weak contractual strength; the valorization of musical realities linked to the territory, as well as those capable of combining in their projects tradition and innovation. Continuing with the summary presentation of the amending proposals, I would like to focus on the conditions of workers in the sector, especially young people, the only ones likely to guarantee an original and creative artistic production. Young people who, despite being victims of the precariousness and suffer from the absence of any minimum contractual and contributory protection without their recognition of any merit, nevertheless represent the driving and innovative thrust of the sector. For this reason I proposed the recognition of prizes and incentives for those theatres that include young artists in their casts and guarantee the punctuality of payments and, on the other hand, sanctions for the theatres that delay the payment of salaries; the introduction of a specific discipline aimed at recognizing performances as an effective working period with a duty to pay, as well as a remodulation and extension of social shock absorbers also to the workers of the show and, more generally, to the artistic profession. I have also proposed the provision of incentives, in the form of a tax credit, for concert hall operators who host youth orchestras and theatre theatres used to promote the theatrical culture for young people. I have accepted the invitation of the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi, to turn some of these amendments, which were unfortunately rejected in the course of the debate into 7th Commission, into agendas, and I hope that the Government will also pay due attention when we come to them. Another area to which we have given importance is that of dance, for which I have proposed the adoption of organic rules for the promotion of dance activities and for the better functioning of dance schools of lyric-symphonic foundations. In this context, in addition to an agenda, an amendment has also been approved that commits the Government to extend also to cultural associations that promote dance the tax concessions currently in force for amateur sports associations; moreover, for the teaching of dancing art it is expected the definition of training paths certified and valid throughout the national territory. This is an important result because it allows all families who decide to enroll their children in a dance school, to have greater certainty about the professionalism and the effective preparation of teachers. Allow me then one last, but certainly not for importance, passage on lyrical-symphonic foundations, for which during this legislature have been produced numerous regulatory provisions aimed at tackling and resolving a crisis in the sector that, instead of trivially imputing to the alleged lack of funds, seems to be able to be actually due to the lack of audiences, little inclined to participate in shows concerning the Italian musical tradition. There has been an intervention on the reorganization of the governance of foundations, on the distribution parameters of the Single Fund for entertainment (FUS), on the forecast of economic and financial recovery plans, but the legislative intervention seems little decisive in the very short term, since the deadline to adapt and ensure the possession of parameters is shifted to 31 December 2019. With regard to a more careful and effective management of resources, we really hope that there will be incisive interventions, that can bring serious benefits and can not be there if we do not support a serious plan of musical education in the school and therefore the compulsory teaching of music already from the schools of childhood. In a country like Italy, with a unique musical heritage that everyone envy us, it is really incomprehensible that music is considered an optional teaching and not completion of the training path. On the other hand, it seems difficult to demand greater attention on these issues if we think that the precariousness of musical teachers continues to be a scourge of our times, without seeing, so far, any kind of solution and the reform of the sector of high artistic, musical and Coreutica (AFAM), after 18 years, is still incomplete, missing of many implementing regulations, including the one on the recruitment of teachers. In conclusion, we need an organic, interconnected, wide-ranging project that has as its short-term objective the solution of problems and as an indispensable perspective the formation of a great and passionate musical audience. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u39	Senator Compagna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u40	Madam President, Mr Giro, representative of the Government, has called on this House and each of us to exercise our memory. Somehow I tried to do so too, listening to the very comprehensive and articulate report this morning. But it remains that, from the point of view of memory, everything is already said and written in the title. We created in the mid-seventies, under certain conditions of necessity and urgency (I remember it was a decree-law), the Ministry for Cultural and Environmental Heritage. Compared to then we are going to give the Minister for Cultural Heritage the delegation for the legislation on cultural activities. From the point of view of memory, there is then no better image of the then Minister, Senator Spadolini, who, at the conversion of the decree-law, to those who wanted to give him nothing less than the cinema located at the Ministry of the show, said: "For God's sake, never cinema!" He said this because he saw it in contradiction with the Ministry for Goods, that is, a Ministry of the protection of the heritage, a Ministry that organized the bureaucracy of democratic Italy with the laws of 1939, the famous laws of Santi Romano, anything but belonging to Fascist Italy, but late fruit of a liberal Italy. Compared to the Ministry wanted and organized by Spadolini, in our political and parliamentary history I would say that, at least from the 1980s, there is a different project, that of the socialists, who say no and who say that we must do as in France, so much so that, if we wanted to look for a reference point, we find it in the organization of the Gollist Ministry, which will then become that of Jack Lang. It is opposed not only by the conservatives of cultural heritage, but also by that world not devoid of many anti-socialist sentiments, the communist world, which is rooted in our archaeology and, as my colleague Giro has pointed out with perfidy, also in the cinematography of Republican Italy. Yeah. But can the solution we have given be that of an instrument such as the delegation to the Minister? They completely change the face, nature and structure of the Ministry without saying it, based on the prerogatives of the Minister. From this point of view, I have the impression that the instrument of delegation is imperfect, all too abused in this parliamentary term. All the more so because the excellent report that we have heard this morning and that President Marcucci has guided in the work of the Commission, of which I am not a member in this legislature, at a certain point says that a rule of the initial text of the Government has had to be expunged because here we have no concern of conflict between the State and the Regions. If it is a wish, this House has no difficulty in accepting it, but what are we talking about? The entire regulatory process that has brought into the area of the Roman College even the political control, in the communist and gramsciano sense, of the CONI and sports federations is always centered on the Minister instead of the Ministry. That's why, beyond the reasons mentioned by colleagues in the opposition, I think of Verona's friend and the sectoral arguments, but to a certain extent, of Senator Giovanardi (because if you try to deny live spectacularity to animals, I don't know what it ends with). From this point of view, I think it is very important, this morning, next Tuesday or when it will be, to have a clear answer - then you can share it or not - from the representative of the government. The representative of the Government has the duty, especially with respect to the reservations that have been made by us of the opposition on the instrument of delegation, to contrast us with the reasons why it can be established, alongside a national council of cultural goods that was the unification of the old superior councils of antiquities and fine arts, the new national council of entertainment. Let us return to post-war Italy, Mr President, when Carlo Ludovico Ragghianti was the Undersecretary responsible for the non-schooling of culture, when the debate - I was struck by Senator Blundo's call - goes on the school organization of culture and a rule of delegation allows it. But what does the new National Show Council have to do with this? Where, of course, there will be no more scientific and technical criteria, but criteria... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I think I have run out of time and I apologise for abusing colleagues' attention. What I wanted to say is that, because of the attitude of my Group, in addition to the sectoral considerations, but significant, made by my friend Carlo Giovanardi, the response of the representative of the Government will be decisive, so as not to finally share the fate, the Zeitgeist of this legislature: draft delegation and on it trust, to quote my colleague Giro. [[Applause from Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Borletti Dell'Acqua Buitoni, many months later, Parliament, after approving the part concerning cinema, is going to delegate to the Government for the new discipline of the entertainment world and does so in a limited point, knowing that the work begun in this legislature will be completed only in part. It's not for me to say if it could be done sooner. Now the hope is that the attention and change of pace that has taken place in recent years on the social, but also economic, function of culture will also be maintained in the future. Surely it is necessary to acknowledge the new Ministry, led by Franceschini, that it has given a turning point in this direction. The measure is significant, starting with the desire to equip the entertainment world with a unique code. There are areas that for a long time needed a thorough review or, in any case, a more robust regulatory framework. I am thinking of lyrical-symphonic foundations and the need to achieve their own economic sustainability through a greater attention to artistic production, to public feedback and to the relationship with the territory and the cultural fabric. It is important that the criteria for granting contributions be revised, as has actually already been the case since the last allocation, thanks to a rule contained in the 2015 Stability Act. I am referring above all to the recognition of the value of the show as indicated in the first article and that the rapporteur Di Giorgi has highlighted well, but also to the importance given to amateur practices, popular artistic expressions, the value of that culture linked to the traditions and history of a territory and, in order to continue, to the role of the show and culture, more generally, to the promotion and promotion of tourism, to the transmission of knowledge, to the recognition of the role of associationism also as an educational factor, to the need to promote the generational turnover, to focus on the growth in qualitative terms of the entire sector. For me these three points are right: education to artistic forms, the role of associationism, new generations. There is, in our country, an important reality of associations, of passionate and competent volunteering, of bands, choirs, pro-dramatics and theatrical groups, historical groups, carnivals and folkloristic groups, coreutic groups, which plays a valuable role of social cohesion and education to music and the arts more generally. There are tens of thousands of precious realities operating everywhere and in all areas, which guarantee a territorial cultural garrison without which Italy would be much poorer and less attractive. This has been emphasized in the Commission above all by the representatives of the permanent table and we all thank them very much for the generous and qualified commitment they put at the service of our communities. But there is also a creative and innovative generation that is the repository of new knowledge and knowledge, which has important skills, which can also produce economic value and opportunities for skilled work. Culture, even in its most popular expressions, can be an economic flywheel, in spite of those who once claimed that culture is not eaten. As shown in several studies, the most vivid cultural territories are also the most dynamic and competitive territories from the productive point of view. It is therefore necessary to enhance and give legs and breath to all these experiences that, in their variety, contribute to the growth of the social and economic fabric of the country and of the individual territorial identities. Unfortunately, I believe this is the weak element of the measure that we are going to approve: an imbalance towards the "high" cultural forms and a less conviction than those forms that affect the territories, which put in place an offer for an audience that otherwise would not have other forms of access to culture. The tax benefits with the extension of the art bonus in favor of concert and orchestral institutions, companies and theatre production centers and dance, are certainly positive elements. As are the standards that guarantee the quality of training centres (I refer in particular to the necessary requirements for dance schools) and those that simplify some bureaucratic procedures that have no serious justification. But while recognizing the high social and educational value of volunteering, too little this delegation law provides for their support. Not even the measures that are planned, rightly, in favour of sporting realities. As if cultural promotion was less important to the country than sports. That is why I call on the Government to strengthen these areas, especially on the ground of the resources allocated to them. They no longer receive anything from the FUS and very little from local authorities. They often live only of the good will of their supporters. We must give the right centrality to the culture that comes to the most distant or difficult places, the one that plays a valuable role in terms of social inclusion, the one that helps on the social health front, for example with the disabled, and that is far from a mass culture b. We owe it above all to the hundreds of thousands of passionate and competent people who dedicate their time free of charge to the community and its growth. And they also create job opportunities for professionals: we think that in Trentino alone the music schools and bands employ over 500 music teachers, formed by the two conservatives active in Trentino. All people who would otherwise not be able to practice their profession. For this reason too, I had tabled a proposal, unfortunately not accepted by the Government, for a partial tax deduction of the expenses incurred by families for musical teaching courses, as well as those granted for sports training. The rapporteur had put forward her proposal, which everyone appreciated, but unfortunately she also had to withdraw because of the lack of adequate cover. Now, in the Chamber, we have retabled it as an agenda, trusting that the Government will at least confirm its political commitment to intervene in the next financial year to introduce tax benefits for the promotion of band activities, choral, choral, theatrical and folkloristic that organize recognized training moments for children and young people. (at 12.10 p.m.) At the same time there is the need, which I urge from the beginning of the parliamentary term and which I have also reiterated on our agenda, for a revision of the author's discipline in favour of voluntary organizations and social promotion associations for initiatives, for beneficial purposes, for the free live execution of music. It is also necessary to eliminate a further share of bureaucracy, which is costly and excessive. It is not possible, for example, that to perform a ballet in the square, without stage and without any security risk, a specific authorization of the administrative police is required. Many others have been the demands of cultural volunteering that have not yet been answered: a minimum of funding from the FUS, tax reliefs also for those who want to invest in cultural volunteering, tax reliefs that today belong only to the ONLUS, the reduction of VAT rates for the purchase of tools, recognition as a training reality, a greater elasticity in the intermittent working relationships with technical collaborators, as it happens for sport. Finally, I would like to focus on a situation which has occurred this year and which has had incredible results. I am referring to the fact that, for the year of tax 2016, it was not possible, it is not known whether by forgetfulness or by political will, to reserve the 2 per thousand of the IRPEF to cultural associations. This, as is easy to understand, has put in trouble many realities that were convinced to have access to this type of support. The request, contained in one of our agendas, shared by the Commission as a whole, is that in the next budget law this necessary measure should be reintroduced to a stable extent. I want, then, to make a final appeal to the Government to finally amend - I have asked it many times, without success - an excessively penalising rule introduced by the Monti Government, which prohibits giving compensation to the directors of the organizations connected to the show. How can we think that the president of a cultural services centre, who is responsible for managing a budget of millions of euros, should carry out this task by taking on his own all the responsibilities, even criminal ones, without receiving any compensation? In conclusion, I express the satisfaction of our Group for this highly anticipated measure, which finally puts order in the whole field of entertainment and which entrusts to the Government a very articulate and demanding delegation. I thank the Committee on Culture and the rapporteur, Mrs Di Giorgi, with whom we have worked in a constructive atmosphere, and I also thank them for having taken into account in the delegation of the specificity of the cultural reality of our region. The challenge is strategic for Italy but also for its territories, because the effects, from the social and economic point of view, for the added value that culture and show can and must give, are absolutely significant. The last glimpse of the legislature is a useful time to do so. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Count. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, briefly reconstructing the procedural events of this draft law, I recall a significant aspect. The delegation to the Government for the code of the show derives from the deletion of a norm originally contained in the discipline of cinema, audiovisual and entertainment, which then became Law No. 220 of 14 November 2016. However, the draft law under consideration today has maintained, for the purposes of the examination in the 7th Commission and in the Assembly, the nature of linked to the public finance maneuver for 2016. And this is significant because it shows that he wanted to give more importance to the live show, that he would run the risk of being watered down within an important measure concerning the cinema sector; in that context, in fact, the live show would have been dedicated a single article. The examination in the contact person, started on 8 November 2016 with an intense series of hearings, ended on 28 June and returned a text enriched with important innovations, compared to the original version resulting from the deletion. In addition, I think it is very important that we converge towards a firm continuation of the examination of this discipline in the House of Members, since we are still at the first reading of this part of Parliament at the present time. I recall, in this regard, how the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities has immediately placed constant attention and specific commitment in order to carry out an in-depth examination and bring to conclusion the evaluation of this legislation that can no longer be postponed. I recall, in fact, that with Law No 163 of 30 April 1985, the legislator intervened in this matter with the establishment of the Single Fund for the Show (FUS), in order to bring back to a unified framework the state support to the various sectors of the show governed by specific laws including, to mention the most important, Law No 1213 of 4 November 1965 on cinematography and Law No 800 of 14 August 1967 on opera and musical activities. This should have been followed by a comprehensive reform of the various sectors, provided for in the same transitional provisions as laid down in Article 13, which laid down: Until the entry into force of the laws of reform of music, cinema, prose, circus activities and travelling entertainment, the criteria and procedures for the allocation of contributions and funding to the recipients of the same remain those provided for by the laws in force for each of the same sectors. This reform, unfortunately, despite being announced more than thirty years ago, has not yet been completed. In this parliamentary term we have been able to reform the film sector. A fundamental but partial passage: the discipline of the activities of show has required deepenings that have been carried out, but now it takes a final effort to complete the picture with the approval of the part of the deleted bill that governs the show. From the point of view of the substance of the provision, the bill consists of seven articles. Article 1, in listing the sectors of entertainment activities covered by the measure, specifies that will include the theatrical, opera, concert and choral activities, but also the activities of contemporary folk music, classical and contemporary dance, circus activities and travelling entertainment, in addition to interdisciplinary and multidisciplinary activities, historical carnivals and historical re-enactments. There is also the recognition of the value of amateur artistic practices, artistic expressions of the folk song of author, the theater of figure, the tradition of Italian dance bodies, street artists and centres of training, experimentation and research in the performing arts. It is clear that the promotion and support of the show is based on the consideration that it is an indispensable factor for the development of culture and an element of cohesion and national identity, and also constitutes a formative and educational value. The promotion and support actions that the State will take on will aim, among other objectives, to improve the quality and plurality of the artistic offer; to increase the artistic and technical skills; to the involvement of young people through the transmission of skills, vocational training and generational change; to the diffusion of the offer of the show in a homogeneous way on the national territory and to the promotion of initiatives abroad. Article 2 deals with the delegations to the Government to be adopted within 12 months for the coordination and reordering of the provisions governing lyric-symphonic foundations. But also for the reform of the theatre, music, dance, traveling shows, circus activities, historical carnivals and historical re-enactments, through the drafting of a single normative text called "code of the show." Among the principles to be followed in the delegation, the most important is the management of the Single Show Fund (FUS). The way in which the FUS's allocation criteria and resources are provided - explains the measure - are established through decrees to be issued, after hearing the Board of Governors for the show prior to agreement with the unified conference. The guidelines include, in particular, the need to ensure the collaboration of the different levels of government and the harmonization of interventions between State and territorial authorities also through the instrument of the program agreement, the promotion of Italian and European productions of the show and the works of young artists and emerging composers. In this great work of dissemination and promotion will also include schools and institutions of high training and the use of tools of access to credit facilitated, also through agreements with the banking system. As regards lyrical-symphonic foundations, the text approved by the Commission takes into account the legislative measures adopted as a matter of urgency in June 2016 which accompanied the provision of additional millions of resources in support of the foundations themselves, then guaranteed by the 2017 budget law. Specifically, it is planned to separate from the Single Fund for the spectacle of the resources allocated to foundations and to reorder the financing criteria with the principle of part-financing provided for by this year's budget (10 million euros for each of the years 2017 and 2018 and 15 million euros annually from 2019). Account should be taken of the rule that requires the provision of resources by giving priority to each institution a share equal to, or in any case proportional to, the amount of contributions from private entities, regions and local authorities. The organizational structure of the lyrical-symphonic foundations will have to ensure effective and suitable management practices to ensure the functioning according to principles of efficiency, effectiveness, economic sustainability and quality enhancement. The framework is complemented by the final provisions set out in Article 7, which shift the deadline to 31 December 2019 to allow foundations to adapt to the new parameters, creating in fact the conditions for an organic reform that affects all foundations, not only those in crisis, and promoting the competition for the support of all subjects (State, Regions, local authorities and private lenders). For the theater, music, dance, traveling performances, circus activities, historical carnivals and historical re-enactments, the Government will have to take into account the optimization of the different sectors, based on the principles of protection and professional enhancement of workers, efficiency, correct management, economics, entrepreneurship and synergy between the different bodies and actors operating. The aim is above all to promote the joint intervention of public and private actors, supporting the ability to operate on the network and recognizing the role of associationism in the promotion of entertainment activities. In the definition of State support measures, legislative decrees will have to introduce rules to ensure parting on the basis of a series of criteria that go from the comparative examination of multiannual activity programmes to the enhancement of the quality of production. Consideration should also be given to the adoption of measures to promote artistic mobility and the circulation of works at European and international level, the financing of projects prepared by young people under 35, the provision of contributions for events and shows abroad. Finally, the activation of extraordinary plans, lasting several years, for the restructuring, and the technological updating of theaters or structures and spaces permanently destined for the show with particular attention to those located in the municipalities with a population of less than 15,000 inhabitants. The measure also concerns the sensitive issue of the employment relationship which, in accordance with Article 36 of the Constitution, must guarantee workers dignity in remuneration and protection: the rules must regulate systematically and unitarily the employment relationship in the entertainment sector, taking into account the specific characteristics and the intermittent nature of work benefits and social security and insurance protection. Article 5 provides for two new measures in support of the sector: the extension of the Art Bonus to all sectors of the show (i.e. also to concert-orchestral institutions, national theatres, theatres of relevant cultural interest, festivals, companies and theatre and dance production centers) and the scheme the tax credit for the first, second and third works of new talents defined as artists, groups of artists, composers or performers. The benefit is granted to companies producing phonograms and music videograms and organizers and producers of live music performances for development, production, digitization and promotion of phonographic or video recordings. In conclusion, the examination in the contact person has returned to this Assembly a complete, organic and full of news for the entertainment sector. With the cooperation of all political forces, the 7th Commission has succeeded in transforming a simple rule of exclusion into a discipline that represents an unmissable opportunity to give new impetus and energy to our cultural activities. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bocchino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u46	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Senator of Giorgi, who has done an important job in the Commission. I also admit that the climate has been positive and I note that one of the few positive aspects of the draft law, which has been awaited for many years by workers in the sector, is certainly due to the commitment that the rapporteur has made in the work of the Commission. However, there are some aspects of the measure that need to be noted. Senator Giovanardi said the devil is hiding in detail. I disagree with this statement because, in my opinion, the devil is hiding in the general approach of a measure that impacts in the field of culture, which should be a pillar of the rebirth, even economic, of our country. In my view, there are two important macro-themes in this measure, if we can say so. The first is a strong focus on governance in this sector. This, of course, is a very important issue, which occurs in some parts of the article (I will shortly look into some of these issues in more detail). In this process of centralization, in some way the visions of stakeholders in this sector, for example the role of associations, in the political decisions of culture that are taken in this country, are pushed and relegated to the margins. The second major issue I would like to develop is the relationship between the public and the private sector. In my opinion, there is a confusion between the role of the public and the role of the private in the field of culture and in the definition of cultural policies. Let's say that, to want to think well, I could talk about confusion, because otherwise I could also say that in my opinion there is an idea that not only pervades this act, but that is characteristic of the policy of the Renzi and Gentiloni governments, which operate in full continuity in this field. There is also a little pervasive thought that the private sector has to intervene where public cuts no longer guarantee the functioning of the system. This is the case in areas where the public must play an absolutely dominant role, such as culture, but I am also thinking of the field of education and some forecasts of the so-called law of good school (e.g. private participation in the financing of some schools). Well, this issue also applies to the measure under consideration. I would like to start with the question of the centralization of powers. First of all, there is a great constitutional issue in this bill, which is not the one raised by Senator Giovanardi (again I disagree with his speech). The constitutional question that arises in this provision is due to the fact that it was evidently born at a historic moment in this legislature when the arrogance of government might have thought that sooner or later a constitutional reform would have passed that, as we know well, through the amendments to Article 117 of the Constitution focused powers in the central state. Of course, we all know how it turned out. Of this, however, remains a trace in the measure, because there is probably an invasion of regional competences by the State, in some areas that remain in concurrent competence (not having passed the reform). This will, in my opinion, lead to appeals which will affect the implementing decrees of this measure, if they are actually adopted by adhering to the criteria expressed at the moment in the Article, and there will therefore be appeals to the Constitutional Court. However, the draft law seeks to remedy the constitutional issue in Article 6, where there is a sort of safeguard clause that says that the provisions of this draft law are immediately operational also for regions with special statutes, except of course regional statutes. But this will not guarantee that there will be no appeals, because the bill does not specify what are actually the areas in which state competence may generate decrees that are not appealable. Therefore, this issue will, in my opinion, be raised once the implementing decrees have been enacted. The issue of centralization also occurs in the article establishing the Higher Council of the Show. Again, there is a sort of centralisation disguised by the establishment of a body that is only apparently consultative, since it must issue guidelines to which the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism must adhere in planning the activity in the field of live entertainment. This goes beyond the merely advisory and proactive tasks that are right to be at the head of a third body in relation to the Ministry. Once again, there is a sort of confusion that also returns to other administrative acts of this Government regarding advisory and propositive bodies. I think we need to be clear. One thing is a consultative and proactive body of ministerial appointment (i.e. the superexperts whom, rightly, the Government must appoint and who must advise it), another issue is the advisory and propositive bodies, representative of the community, to which the provision refers (in this case, the entertainment workers' community through their associations, unions etc.). The Superior Council of the Show has 15 members (not 11, as I have mistakenly read in some parts): 11 members are of ministerial appointment, 4 also of ministerial appointment, but on a rose proposed by the associations of sector. So let us see how the contribution of industry associations in this consultative body is absolutely marginal. This remains a consultative body (probably even more) of purely ministerial appointment, a sort of committee of ministerial superexperts. I repeat that such an organ must exist, but at the same time, there must also be an organ, with as many full advisory and propositive powers, that is truly representative of the associations, as was the Consulta dello spettacolo in the MiBACT, which is repealed by the bill in this centralizing foga of the decision-making processes. Well, even with all the problems related to the operation of the Show Council, the answer given is in our opinion too centralistic and summitistic. Let me now turn to the question of public-private confusion, which is linked to another subject I would like to talk about. If, as established by the constitutional dictation, we really want to remove the obstacles that prevent the full development of the human person, we cannot pretend not to see that in this country there are very serious inequalities, even territorial, not only between North and South, but also between the center and periphery of the big cities. I wonder how this draft law can address this issue. There is a reference to centres with less than 15,000 inhabitants, but not to the outskirts and this represents a serious vulnus. For example, as an inhabitant of a city in the Mezzogiorno of Italy with almost 100,000 inhabitants who do not have a theatre (I speak of Trapani, who until the Second World War had a theatre, which was bombed and no longer rebuilt), I wonder what the bill under consideration for this kind of reality can do. There is little or nothing in the provision. Mr President, I would like to say one last thing on the subject of lyrical symphonic foundations, which has already been addressed in this House and on which the confusion between the public and the private becomes maximum. The first public foundations, then mistakenly turned into bodies governed by private law, were cut off from funding. Think that in 2008 240 million euros of the Single Fund for Show (FUS) were destined for lyric-symphonic foundations, while in 2013 the figure amounted to only 170 million. Therefore, a cut of 60 million euros went to hit the productions and not the staff, thus worsening the situation of the staff present in the foundations. Sometimes it is true - but not so often - that foundations are badly managed, but they have suffered and suffer from heavy cuts. It is not true that the staff are made redundant. Cuts have only been made to production. These cuts were responded by assigning only a few coins to the FUS, but, with the new formulation of the delegation concerning lyric-symphonic foundations, the part destined for these foundations was disembedded by the FUS in general. It will most likely happen that no more euro will be given to lyrical-symphonic foundations, compared to which will be applied even more private criteria, where there should be a return to public funding, then detached from business and market logics, which instead try to apply surreptitiously to these foundations, which should return to being appropriately refinanced cultural pillars. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u47	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u48	Mr President, I too will begin by thanking the rapporteur, Senator Di Giorgi, for in fact she must be given an approach focused on listening to requests from opposition forces. Alas, unfortunately, the Minister for Culture, Mr Franceschini, who has certainly not shown the same approach to opposition or, I believe, to the rapporteur, who belongs to her own political force, deserves much less thanks. A lack of listening which later resulted in the attitude of its bald representatives of the legislative office, because Minister Franceschini was so interested in this measure - as he was so interested in the reorganization of the cinema sector - that he did not appear in the Commission. Moreover, it has rarely appeared during his term of office in this parliamentary term. This says a lot, but on the other hand it is very busy in purely political matters of appointment and armoring of command posts. (at 12:38 a.m.) (After Montevecchi). Having made the necessary clarifications and due thanks to Senator Di Giorgi, even for our part we cannot but intercept a will of centralization in this measure - the considerations made by Senator Bocchino on this matter find us completely in agreement - which, however, does not surprise us because this will of centralization has manifested itself in almost all the measures emanating from the current Government; therefore, it fits perfectly in that furrow. As I reserve the right to make more general considerations on the measure in the explanation of vote, after having seen the progress of the work with regard to the amendments and agendas presented, I now concentrate on the subject of lyrical-symphonic foundations, dance and the third sector. In the original text of this bill, paragraph 3 concerned a further revision of the discipline of lyric-symphonic foundations, which had the "privilege" of being very cared for. Perhaps it would have been good at some time to forget about it, and instead we have reminded them all too much because obviously we want to carry out that evil project, which has been going on for years transversally, with different colors of different governments, which in our opinion is the dismantling of the sector and then reborn to the advantage of a completely private system. It is true, in fact, that, as Senator Giro rightly said in his speech, these foundations suffer from that expressed will, matured from a legislative point of view in 1996 with the law Veltroni that created a legal monster, for which we have institutions of a private legal nature which, however, is recognized as a public interest. All this triggers the chaos in which these foundations have ended, due, in our view, for the most part, not only to this legal monster, and therefore also to the consequences it has had, but also to the cuts, as has already been mentioned in this House, which have affected the whole area of culture. We come from a series of vintages in which the various governments have constantly and persistently cut the funds to culture, as if culture were not important in the life of a country, as if it were not one of the main sources also for our industrial production, but I have no time to articulate this reasoning. Having said that, one of the reasons why foundations are in these conditions today is malagency, deriving from the fact that in this case too the bad habit of considering the apical roles, so above all the roles of superintendent within the foundations, artistic director but also of all the various administrative directors, as a parking place to please political close friends, even if these friends had certainly not proved, on previous occasions, to be good at the management of these lyric-symphonic foundations or even if these people did not have curriculum vitae able to motivate their appointment in those positions. We have made a great deal of effort in this measure to try to draw attention to this aspect and I must say that, in fact, in the original text, at a time when perhaps not even the Minister - or whoever for him wrote this text - was well aware of himself, there appeared a letter (b) recognizing the attribution of responsibility for budgetary balance to the superintendent as the sole management body. This then actually disappeared from the text. Then there was an amendment by the rapporteur, whom I think was kindly asked to rewrite the article. And it is thanks to us and to our ability, even in important moments, to speak with the rapporteurs of the measures if a reference to responsibility in the economic management of the foundations has appeared again. This is therefore a missed opportunity, because in reality the famous Article 24 of Law No 160 of 2016, according to which, the content of that provision will continue, the foundations are destined to be downgraded and to disappear progressively. I conclude with a joke about dance, because it is not really us who say that enough has not been done in this measure and that in Italy, the home of dance, this risks disappearing. It was the great dancer and interpreter Roberto Bolle who said that in this country the dance is ignored and abused. In fact, the Florentine musical May and the Verona Arena, two institutions that could boast a high level dance body, have seen it dismantled just this year. I hope that in the course of the amending phase the rapporteur will still have that good approach to listening and I hope that in the meantime she has infected the government and that she will be able to make a more beautiful and perhaps positive explanation of vote on the measure under consideration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u50	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot help but do what all my colleagues have done before me - and I am happy to do so - that is, to thank the Senator for her positive approach, as she was also mentioned at the end of her speech. In addition to form, however, there must also be substance in government measures. I cannot fail to note that in this provision, as unfortunately has always happened - ahinoi - in these years of governments not elected by the people (we are in the fourth consecutive non-elected government) we speak only in a self-celebrative sense. He first reminded my group colleague, Senator Giro, that the speeches by the rapporteur and the majority expressed satisfaction because something was finally done. Ruled for five years: in the meantime you started throwing away five years, possibly, but in the previous twenty years have you never been to the government? In fact an account is self-celebration and an account is the substance. He correctly reminded Senator Giro that much has been done about cinema and culture. I have the impression, indeed the certainty, that the approach of the left when it comes to culture is self-celebrative: culture is only left-wing and there is never an openness. Many examples of cultural events on the territory, promoted by center-right or left-wing administrations, were now remembered. Culture is too important and belongs to all of us. In this House, however, we want to self-celebrate it and do little or nothing concrete, and in fact the cuts made to culture in recent years have been remembered by all the speeches of the opposition colleagues of all the Groups. I repeat: we are doing this, as colleagues in the opposition, by recognizing to the rapporteur, for example, the will - which I also acknowledge to the President of the Commission, Marcucci - to try to do things together: only that the wedding with dried figs not even people for good who want to follow the measures succeed in doing so. In fact, the self-celebration I was talking about first leads to little or almost nothing concrete and then we will see the worst aspect. Of course, there are also interventions. Let us say that this measure contains some statements of principle that can certainly be good for us too. We heard a little while ago about lyric-symphonic foundations. In your opinion, do we not want to regularise that huge waste of public money that we continue to witness? How many times have we talked about this in the Senate House over the past five years? It is often discussed with a new Minister, but this is for political reasons relating to your political perimeter that we cannot fail to take into account because we have been elected, we are representatives of parties and we are approaching the elections. Read, Renzi, now Gentiloni: it is clear that these are all telluric shakes of your political part. With the Minister's change, it always seems to change everything because yours is an autocelebrative culture of the left, which is articulated in a thousand "left" rivoli (sorry the term) that determine continuous changes. Instead, given that culture belongs to everyone, we should finally put an end to the word, for example, to foundations. Well, it seems that Parliament is not able to put an end to this problem once and for all. When it comes to movies, every time it looks like everything's been done with the movies. Instead, it was done so much earlier, as our Group has mentioned, and much more will be done - hopefully - otherwise the culture ends in this country. I shall end with the subject of Article 2, by saying that we should try to do something decisive on foundations. Some statements are absolutely acceptable, but unfortunately they remain general, because once again - and this is a fundamental point for our Group on which I would like to dwell - a delegation law is being made, so that we and our colleagues in Parliament are deluding decisions on this matter without knowing, of course, what will happen. It is no coincidence that I spoke before the Ministers' changes because every time you change your internal balances, it almost seems to change everything. Unfortunately, although the rapporteur is a guarantee, and we have said so, because she was also a guarantee on the law for cinema and I really want to thank her for her commitment, the result is relative. We come to this House with this law which contains absolutely nothing transcendental. We have come to this House with the ministers of Franceschini and Bray, and we do so now with the latter Government and every time it seems - I would invite you to reflect on this - that the world is changing. Every time we discuss culture, cinema, lyric-symphonic foundations, you say that before you there was the global flood, while now you have settled everything. No, with the bill under consideration nothing is settled; there are approaches of good will, in some cases acceptable, in others less. But it is certain that, in the face of general statements that live shows are important, how can we disagree? When you say we need to relaunch Italian cinema, how can we not agree? When you say culture is important, how can you disagree? However, we do not see the resources, we do not understand where they come from, we do not constantly decrease; we do not understand what relationship the Ministry must have with the territorial authorities. Being Venetian I think of the Arena of Verona, what they will do for it, how it will be supported. I am thinking of the concept of vertical subsidiarity between the State, the Regions and the Municipalities, which I never hear of. This is because even those of you who, fortunately, have administrative experience in your own city - in my opinion almost everyone in this House should have demonstrated that they have territorial capacity - cannot act because they are deprived of their role. As I said both in the Commission and in this House, I would like to thank the majority in the 7th Commission for their good will, but in the end they are forced to delegate everything. You keep us from talking, from making a real contribution. Of course, the amendments try to improve the measures - at least you don't trust them - but you are the majority that holds the trust record; if it had acted in the same way as a center-right government, there would be the roundabouts in the square screaming only confidence. On this measure I hope you will not put it - and it will be so - but you are accustomed to delegate it to the Government. You tried to delegate to the man only to command when you had the abusive premier Matteo Renzi. Today, you are trying to make people think it is a team effort, but Parliament is being deported from its will, because you are actually asking us to vote on a delegation to the Government. And you're probably gonna do it on the electoral law, too. You don't have the courage to carry on even your beliefs, like that wretched rule about ius soli. Frankly, in my opinion, all we can do is observe that even in a field such as this Parliament cannot do anything, but it must delegate to the Government and we are forced to suffer this too. These are small statements of principle, nothing concrete. I see no resources, no great changes I see only great self-celebrations. This measure, in which there could be anything and could contain positive aspects, sees us again deeply opposed. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u51	Senator Ferrara Elena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by reminding Senator Claudio Abbado and his well-known phrase: "Culture is a primary common good such as water. Theaters, libraries, museums and cinemas are like many aqueducts. And I would like to remind you that we have talked about the lack of memory, of what has been. After all, what we have done and are doing is a response to his call for the right to culture and cultural heritage by all citizens, from an early age. At the time of his disappearance we all signed the bill n. 1365 on the valorization of musical and artistic experiences in the school system; that norm also contained openings with respect to the system of cultural goods and entertainment that are now being taken up within the present bill. So, we're closing a circle. And even if that bill was not approved, we had Legislative Decree No. 60 of 2017, laying down rules on the promotion of humanistic culture, on the valorization of heritage and cultural productions and on the support of creativity, which entered into force from May 31, which speaks of training in music and arts from zero to six years until the end of the school cycle of high school. It is therefore clear that, together with the work we are doing today, we are responding to those needs of access to the heritage that we know to be fundamental. Cultural heritage and experience related to the artistic languages of the body and mind are able to make us overcome the barriers of a prison, a hospital or a degraded neighborhood. The performing arts, in fact, have the power to break down the walls, if not always the real ones, certainly the relational ones - and much has been said in this Assembly by those who preceded me - and create well-being even in conditions of discomfort, but above all and throughout our life they excite and make us see beyond infinity. This has a lot to do with social growth, humanistic and scientific research. Of course, as Carlo Rovelli explains in his essay "Seven short lessons in physics", it takes so much effort and effort to understand Riemann's equation, but less than those necessary to get to feel the rarefied beauty of one of Beethoven's last quartets. In one case and another, the prize is beauty and new eyes to see the world. This also has a lot to do with our need to reinvent our capacity for social and economic development. We know at this time - many have stressed this - how creative enterprise, even in Europe so supported, is one of the fundamental elements, a development axis to which we must turn. The show, with its visions, magic and narratives, makes the places of culture even more attractive and this is another element of great importance with regard to a country like ours that of places of culture has so many. In his highest vision - and we can always work for the spectacle to be evaluated in its quality - he is one of the fundamental elements of our civilization and, therefore, deserves to be known, safeguarded and protected even in its material traces, but valued in its immaterial qualities. Recently in the 7th Commission, in the legislative framework, Law No 44 was passed, of which I was rapporteur, which adapted the Italian legislation to the Unesco Convention, extending safeguard and support to five areas of intangible cultural heritage, including the performing arts, social practices, rites and festivals and traditional craftsmanship. Moreover, with Decree-Law No 146 of 2015, for the first time, the protection, use and enhancement of cultural heritage have been recognised as activities falling within the essential levels of performance, in implementation of Article 9 of the Constitution. And this has been done in the current legislature. The road is now also paved by the ratification of the Lighthouse Convention, which introduces and promotes processes of participation in the recognition of material and immaterial heritage by the communities. In this sense, the inclusion of the re-enactments of historical carnivals as objects of interest in the norm we are considering acquires particular significance. The draft law under discussion, as drawn up in the Commission - I too thank the rapporteur for the work she has done, President Marcucci, the Government and Minister Franceschini, who has carried out this long journey with us - has appropriately indicated the national and European references to which the new entertainment code is based, in clear coherence with the work carried out by Parliament and the Government over the years. Some elements - for example - still need to be remembered as, in fact, the law on cinema, which is being implemented with the subsequent implementing decrees. Last year, when we removed Article 34 from the bill on live entertainment, which today is for the attention of all of us, the amendment 34.0.1, which I had tabled and which had a correspondence with the bill presented by Mr Rampi to the House, fell. That bill, focused above all on popular and contemporary music, today finds strong legitimacy within the new text at our examination. And this is one of the most revolutionary and important areas, as well as support for festivals, the art bonus extended to many situations, after experimentation on foundations and theaters of tradition. The attention to contemporary popular music (including jazz and pop), which we see as important in terms of social aggregation and implementation of the creativity of young people, has been one of the elements of great innovation in the text under consideration. A first point of strength - as I have already pointed out - lies in the valorization starting from the need to strengthen the basic training, with which we can think of strengthening amateur and professional paths related to it. The work carried out in the Commission, starting with specific resolutions which have focused on the aspects of training and cultural production, has introduced several measures resulting precisely from this reflection and the subsequent documents: I refer in particular to Resolution No 47 of 2015, unanimously adopted, concerning the close correlation between training and production. In Article 2 of the text, in our examination, it is envisaged that 3% of the resources of the FUS will be committed precisely to the training chain in the artistic fields. The circle started with this reasoning closes a little, as if to say that perhaps we have no memory not only of what has been done, but also of what we are doing. This is because - I hope with further clarification at an amendment level in the Chamber - reference will be made to the fact that Legislative Decree No. 60 of 2017 comes to connect directly to the new code of the show. The aforementioned 3% will therefore go to the level of the arts, which is incarnate in a directing booth where we see the MIBACT and the MIUR working together, together with the third sector, and therefore with all that volunteering also cultural that has been mentioned here, in order to be able to really put into system what is done in the cultural field, but that often sees little interface between the various educational and productive worlds and also the various levels of promotion, and therefore the third sector, the private social sector with public bodies and whatever else. On the other hand, we have included these system logics in the many measures we are dealing with in recent months and on which we will continue to work. An important point is the welfare of entertainment workers, linked to the typical nature of these professions. I too was very impressed by the CGIL report that processed the data, starting with that of the approximately 140,000 show workers. Of them, only 4.2 percent exceeds an annual net income of 25,000 euros, while 51% does not reach 5,000 euros. On this I really believe that the delegation is strict and that there are then specific texts. In such a complex context it is important that also the observatory of the show, an organism that has worked in recent years, has been able to make its own contribution and today it is reflected in the council for the show - this text provides - within which these themes must be addressed. While we were working on this text, for which it took several months, Europe suffered terrorist attacks that affected young people and families: from Manchester to Paris, without forgetting the recent tragedy in Barcelona. The moments of beauty, aggregation and creative freedom must remain the bulwarks of our civilization and civil coexistence. The arts, and certainly also those of the show, are the result of individual and collective creative freedom; that dimension open to the confrontation that looks to the future by elaborating in the contemporaneity what thought, even the oldest, makes available to us. This is the aesthetic and ethical vision that is transmitted, from the path of the measure under consideration. The guidelines expressed by the competent Ministers present at the G7 of culture in Florence last spring allow us to look forward with due trust in humanity. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u53	The general debate is closed. Follow-up to the debate on the draft legislation in title, with the replies and examination of the amendments, on which the opinion of the Budget Commission has not yet been received, is postponed to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u56	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Legist mayor of Pontida, Luigi Carozzi, sadly enjoyed the Nation with his rules on parking for pregnant women, regulation then revised and perhaps - as Radio 1 said this morning - withdrawn. Carozzi has specified that by woman is meant a human individual of female sex - think yourself - and that such advantage was reserved for only human individuals of female, European and heterosexual sex. Civilization, in short, must not concern lesbians, Americans and foreigners in general. We should only be civilized between us, in a few close places. That today there are problems of intolerance, fear, miscelebrated racism, sexism and ignorance is quite obvious. I and many of my colleagues in Parliament are trying to counter this sad reality by promoting studies, initiatives, draft laws (such as the one on ius soli, currently suspended) and much more, which aim to seek greater inclusion and education, more up-to-date and efficient, and to raise people's awareness. However, I wonder how we can hope to win this battle if intolerance, fear, racism, sexism and ignorance come first of all from the ruling class. I wonder if a mayor or politician in general should be content to be merely an expression of the people who elected him or should at least try to be a model. That regulation, even if it has been changed and perhaps withdrawn, was first thought, written and presented. It took time, bureaucracy and presumably some discussion. This leads us to two possible scenarios. The first scenario could be as follows: if Carozzi believed in what he proposed, but then changed or perhaps withdrawn under pressure from the media or other political leaders, then we are faced with ignorance, racism and sexism. As a second scenario, if Carozzi did not believe it, then he acted to wink at the people who cultivate those feelings to prove that he is the man who deserves their vow. In that case, we would be faced with that becero populism of which the press and the citizens themselves have accused us for years; the same one that has helped to ruin the relationship of trust between the people and institutions. That signature and that mode of being so bleak in the last four years have seen the apotheosis also thanks to various political components that have recently expressed themselves. I would like such events not to remain, as often happens, only for the benefit of the press, which can build some canzonatory article on it. I wish that when a public leader shows racist and sexist attitudes, he would not become just a joke, getting only a few bitter smiles and shoulders and then tomorrow is another day and you will see. It is also the task of politicians to protect democracy and the values that we have established to belong to this country. We should ask ourselves, when we put aside certain events with a shrewd head, whether we are actually doing so with the serenity and dedication they deserve. As it is written in the last book of Luciano Violante, democracy does not exist in nature, it is the fruit of reason and desire for freedom and, for this reason, it must be cured. Many people believed that democracy did not need care because it was not susceptible to decay, and that is not the case. I fully agree with these words, which make us reflect on how important it is to be democratic and free. What we should be able to do is continue in the exercise of democracy and succeed in exporting it to where it is not today. [[Applause from Senator Romani Maurizio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u59	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, on January 13, 2012, in my region, Tuscany, a young man of only thirty years, Giuseppe Girolamo, sacrificed his life to save that of a small creature. The young man was on the cruise ship Costa Concordia and worked as a musician. This intervention, almost five years after that tragedy and that act, wants to urge what has been required for some time, namely the recognition of the gesture through the award of the gold medal to the civil valor. Today, after almost five years from that day when 32 people lost their lives, on silent cameras and news, I feel a moral obligation not to lower my guard and to insist on the proper recognition for the heroic act of that young man. That is why I have put a question to the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and to Minister Minniti, so that they are really active and do not fall into oblivion. My question is in addition to the many other questions put by my fellow Members. Today, Madam President, living of one's own estro, living of music - we have just talked about what the world of entertainment is - is not simple: one must be a little dreamer and surely one must be determined to carry on one's own aspirations, probably lovers of invention and of the extro, surely in love with life. Invention, extro and love did not fail Joseph on that dramatic and dark night when his maximum aspiration was translated into the decision to change the salvation of a child with his own life, for Joseph, the musician, could not swim. On that night when those who held the role of maximum responsibility escaped, while they would have to organize and arrange on board as appropriate to carry out an orderly ship abandonment, putting safe passengers and crew, and then let fall into the void the solicitations of the Livorno office to resume its place, Joseph had decided independently the most noble thing he could do: sacrifice himself to save the life of others. In view of the fact that Law No 13 of 2 January 1958 recognizes and rewards the civil value to reward acts of exceptional courage, I strongly urge the Ministers concerned. I also recall that there is a petition launched online, where hundreds of thousands of citizens are still waiting for an answer today. If we do not recognize in Joseph one of our highest examples and one of our heroes, we will be a country poorer, blinder and deafer to the need for noble values to be handed down. Madam President, we are living in such a delicate historical period, in which fraternity, altruism, the values of coexistence and life are perceived as weaknesses and relics of the past and in which young people grow up in the convention that we obtain respect and recognition from society only if we prove ourselves sufficiently insensitive and selfish. The young people, President, need examples and models and I believe that that of Giuseppe Girolamo is finally to be recognized and valued. I would also like to extend special thanks to those who, after so long, have urged my conscience and responsibility. It is easy, in fact, at the moment of the highest media resonance, to be interested in a theme, but it is more difficult to insist at a distance of so much time. In turn, I have been urged and, therefore, I thank those who have put me before my responsibility. I appeal to all of you and to the highest institutions for this recognition to be truly granted. [[Applause from Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u60	The Presidency will undertake to call for an answer on this issue, to have an assessment by the Government which I hope will be positive.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u63	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I am speaking just this morning, since it is the last session of the Senate of the week when I am allowed to do so. We have reached the end of the sitting. It is news, at least according to the current situation, that Senator Cuomo has been invited to resign. I have read in the press releases that Senator Cuomo has been given the opportunity to make the gesture of surrendering his resignation today, being the last day of the week in which sessions are scheduled, and thus to express his will to resign as senator and to be mayor. What happened in the Junta - in my opinion - is shameful.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u64	Excuse me, Senator Puglia, but the subject has already been discussed twice. I do not think it is right that you should refer the matter back to the House because you do not have the representatives of the Council with whom you can speak with regard to your assessments. I would like to draw your attention to an assessment of the opportunities and respect of colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u65	I completely change my approach: I do not go into the substance of the decisions of the Junta and I am addressing the question of whether Members of this House should fully respect the institution and not play with the time to take time. In any case, this game will ensure that, even in the presence of the obvious decision of Senator Cuomo to be mayor, since he is doing so and is in his full powers, at the present time we do not know clearly his decision. We must also know that, when he was proclaimed mayor, on 20 July last, Senator Cuomo was required, not for the Senate, but for the local body, to stop his incompatibility, so as not to cease his office as mayor. So, he sent the famous recommended Saturday, July 29th. As a matter of fact, he sent a registered letter on Saturday and he could have done it sooner when the Senate offices are open. I remember Saturday many offices in the Senate are closed. The recommendation was not sent to the presidency of the Senate, whose offices are always open, but to the secretariat of the Junta which is closed on Saturday. And I am no longer talking about the Junta, Mr President, because otherwise you would call me back.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u66	Please conclude because your time is up.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u67	PUGLIA (M5S). Someone called him the sly of the registered letter, and it is legitimate this thought, being even now the last useful moment to hand in the resignation. However, this act of goodwill has not been done. What do we have to think, then? To posterity the arduous sentence. [[Applause from Senator Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u68	Madam President, I rise to ask for a written reply to Question No 4-07411, tabled on 26 April 2017, on the situation in the municipality of Mazzarà Sant'Andrea of a landfill that was born badly and grew worse. It has been authorized, despite the indications to the contrary; it has been extended without carrying out checks - it must also be ascertained the responsibilities - and has already caused damage, having spilled the percolate on the bed of a stream, downstream of which there are wells from which the Municipality of Furnari supplies drinking water. And this summer, at the end of August, it also caught fire. All this had been planned and feared by the then mayor of the Municipality of Furnari and reported several times to the judicial authority, the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and to the Ministry of the interior from which some officials of the prefecture of Messina depend, whose behaviour, at least misunderstood, had been reported. Among other things, the presence of gas in the depths of the landfill frightens an explosion of the same, with understandable fear, also because of the proximity to the inhabited municipalities, of an environmental disaster of important proportions. I would therefore like to ask the Government, and I ask the Presidency to take charge of this, to answer the questions in good time, because we run the risk of losing the prestige of the institution of inspection of the government and, therefore, the Government itself and the Parliament which places such inspection acts. By the way, at this point, with the damage already happened, which had been announced, it becomes more late than urgent to answer the question. I therefore ask the Presidency to take charge of this task.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u69	Perhaps it would be useful to restore the practice of question time, which allows a prompt response. The Presidency will, however, be responsible for reporting the situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-09-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-875.ana.u70	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.23 a.m.
