ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u4	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2630. I remember yesterday's afternoon sitting when the general debate was over and the rapporteur's reply took place. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Senator Finocchiaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I would like to raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment that I am going to present, entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 2630, of the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 244 of 30 December 2016, which substantially transposes the amendments proposed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u10	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with practice, it sends the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, it informs the Assembly about the financial coverage profiles. I therefore call on the Conference of Group Leaders to organise the debate and suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.38 a.m. and resumed at 10.11 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u11	The Conference of Leaders organised the discussions on the question of trust posed by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the text of the decree-law extending of time limits. For the discussion forty-five minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The explanations of vote will then follow and he calls it to take place around 12 noon. Immediately after the vote of confidence, a resolution on the request for an urgent declaration on draft law No 876 will be passed. In relation to the progress of the work, the question time, scheduled for today's afternoon sitting, is postponed to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u12	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u13	Mr President, in a speech by delegation of the Parent Company at yesterday's afternoon sitting, I tried to bring to the attention of the House what had happened in a courtroom in Bologna.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u14	Excuse me, Senator Falanga, maybe there's a misunderstanding. We are in the process of discussing the issue of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u15	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Of course, Mr President, but there is a connection to what I am saying. In order to achieve this connection, I would like to mention those amendments which provided for the retirement age of judges at the age of seventy-two and which, with a strange alchemy, this majority removed from the measure, i.e. it did not allow the debate on such a sensitive issue, which the majority of this Senate wanted, and put confidence in, as well as in, this problem, of course, also on others. As I am not an all-rounder, I focus my attention on this particular issue. As I said, yesterday I tried to inform the House about what had happened in a courtroom in Bologna. We are talking about a hearing that dealt with pre-trial detention, so not compensation for a few thousand euros in a car accident but the freedom of a person, whoever it was. Well, the lawyer was notified of the court order that decided on the case the day before the hearing. The following day, when the hearing was held, the lawyer presented such an order in court and the court, obviously greatly embarrassed, met in the boardroom, after which he declared to abstain from the judgment on the case in question in order to avoid, as the President said, any doubts as to the correctness of the judgment. For the truth, on the point, the junta of the National Association of Judges liquidates the question by saying that one cannot question, that is, the good faith of the magistrates cannot be questioned. Why am I hanging up on the matter of trust? We asked, with some amendments, for the retirement age of judges to be seventy-two years old. The history of the retirement age is ancient and dates back to 1946. There was a ballet: first the retirement age was seventy years, then, in 2003, an amendment of mine was accepted by Parliament, which brought the age, at the request of the person concerned, to seventy-two years. I recall that I mentioned the retirement age of other professional figures: notaries retire at the age of 75, as well as university professors and doctors and, paradoxically, cardinals also retire at the age of eighty. Well, in our country it is thought that a man at the age of seventy, rather than giving us, in a sector as delicate as that of justice, benefits of wisdom - because age is important and, as I said yesterday, the age of the judges children is over - must retire. Today we could have allowed a magistrate to still offer the wisdom that experience and age have made him acquire; but no, for unjustified opposition. Trust is good, but why not accept in the maxi amendment the request that came, as well as from the Democratic Party benches (why also two PD senators had tabled amendments in this direction), also from Forza Italia and other political forces? The amendments gave a clear signal that there was an overwhelming majority in agreement with this solution. The arrogance of the government and part of the majority that follows the government has led to confidence being placed. Trust is placed on a measure which, moreover, includes a series of provisions which do not satisfy, now a part of this Senate, certain sections of the population. To reach this morning Palazzo Madama we had great difficulties and at 9 am I informed the Secretariat of the Presidency to warn that many colleagues could not reach Palazzo Madama due to the strike of taxi drivers taking place outside the palaces. Well, you don't worry about all this and you move forward with confidence. In fact, confidence was preceded by attitudes, in my opinion, which were institutionally distraught by someone who thought to apply the rule, to the truth that I did not share, according to which in the Commission the senator should necessarily follow the lines of the party and could not express an individual position, unlike what happens in this House (this distinction between the Assembly and the Commission seems paradoxical to me). Thus, even two senators were replaced who thought differently about one issue, particularly what I mentioned. This attitude, this stubbornness in not wanting to allow senators to express themselves on extremely sensitive issues, which also affect the economy of our country, what must lead us to do a responsible political force? A political force that has not failed to give its support to the Government, when it comes to constitutional reforms, a political force that has exposed itself to public opinion, even subjecting itself to accusations of political attitude prone to compromises for purposes other than those which are then the noble ends of politics. Well, this political force can only say: that is enough, however! That's enough. You cannot continue to have such an institutionally misguided attitude towards Parliament. I could say more, but I would risk being interrupted and taken over by the Presidency, so I do not. I do not, but I must say that this majority, with this Government, cannot come and ask us for a vote of confidence on a measure like this. Things would be different if they had accepted some of our proposals within the maxi amendment and, as far as I am concerned, if they had shared that it was right and fair to bring the retirement age of the magistrates to seventy-two years, it was nothing else because they would have gone to remove that profile of unconstitutionality, which I did not fail to denounce in this House, when we extended the retirement age of certain magistrates to the top of the Italian judiciary. I mentioned the episode of Bologna not to criticize the judiciary. I have competed to enter the judiciary and therefore I have with this professional category, since my very young age, a respect and respect that I have never missed in the exercise of my profession. And it is in the light of this respect that I say that I protect all that healthy judiciary and protect it from certain characters, few for the truth, that offend the whole category, because issuing a sentence before the hearing means in fact eliminating the right of defence from our legal system. Moreover, the attorney at this time is silent on such a serious incident, while a healthy judiciary, the one responsible, should in my opinion have intervened immediately. The Supreme Council of the judiciary itself, although informed, did not consider taking the protective measures that would have been appropriate. For these reasons, I personally and my Group will not trust the Government on this measure. [[Applause from Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u18	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I may have been inattentive, but we are having the general debate on a major amendment which is currently being examined by the Budget Commission. I wonder how Senator Falanga did an intervention and talk without even knowing what's going on and what's written in that document. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Centinario, you were with us at the Conference of the Leaders. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). In fact, I have told you that I have been careless, Mr President. If I hadn't been careless, I would have told her it was crazy. I'll tell you now. We are having the general debate on a measure that we do not even know what is going on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. This isn't the first time this has happened, Senator Centinario. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Perhaps Senator Falanga is guided by those in the Commission and then maybe he is like Ambra Angiolini at the time and someone tells him what to say. But, today as it is today, to speak and stand here and do something about things, without knowing what will come out of that Commission, it seems to me truly unheard of. I say that as a person who made a mistake at the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u19	Yes, however, since you have all come, I am sorry for your inattention, Senator Centinario, but for us there was unanimity in deciding to start like this. I would remind you that what the Budget Committee needs to check is financial cover. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). But they're financial cover... president. When the President of the 5th Commission comes to report to us, then, if necessary, we will reopen the debate. Okay? Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Thank you, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u20	Mr President, it is certainly strange to talk about a text whose final version is not known. We discussed this yesterday, as Senator Centinario said now. We find ourselves again in front of a government, represented by one of its representatives, which asks us to trust it. This is not the first time: it has happened many times in this legislature, even with this government photocopier that should currently run the hut. However, since we then read in the texts of things at least singular, we can only tell him that we do not trust him, as we did not trust the previous one. In addition, we are talking about a measure such as a milleproroghe, which merely testifies to the inability of the Government because this measure serves exactly this purpose: to say that the Executive has not been able to do things and asks to extend the terms. Among the many terms that he has asked us to extend, there are those for the fire-fighting adaptation of hotel facilities. Given what happens in the many emergencies in this country, extending the time limit for fire-fighting adaptation is at least unique and dangerous. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Perhaps it would be better to say no: nothing extends any longer, who has done, has done and who has not done or closes or takes a fine. If we go on, there's no point in talking about prevention. But what prevention! There would be some thought when making these decisions. Let us now come to other singular things that are being talked about widely. We refer to Amendment 9.20 tabled by Senator Lanzillotta on taxis and rentals with drivers. The amendment is very peculiar and it is very particular that the Government, the rapporteur and no one else has noticed anything and has been given a favourable opinion. We should congratulate Senator Lanzillotta on her mastery of her amendments. But what is the product of this amendment? The product of this amendment is that a rule issued in 2008, suspended until 2010 and entered into force precisely this year, is magically suspended in 2017. For seven years it is in force and then, with a stroke of genius, it is suspended. This means that everything that has happened in these seven years disappears with a stroke of pen. What happens to all the causes and the fines given to the rentals with drivers, who had to have the garage and the residence in the municipality where they exercise? Now they can have it anywhere in Italy. Let us return to the previous situation, when this rule has been in force for seven years: we have written that we should extend a suspension of this rule which has been in force since 2010. I'd like to ask the government if it's asleep. Are you awake? Did you get your coffee in the morning? What does the rapporteur do? But does none of the majority feel ashamed for these things? The government isn't there! Right! Mr President, I propose that we do one thing: since there is no government, we suspend the timing of my speech and wait for it to come back! [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut and Senator Rizzotti Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u21	The government is here.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u22	CIOFFI (M5S). I congratulate the Government which is mobile. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The mobile government. CIOFFI (M5S). Yeah, the mobile government. You don't have to worry, President: he moves and moves, but sooner or later he falls, as always. [[Applause from Senator Crosio]] Let's go back to our speech. We are faced with this. Of course, we must honor honest taxi drivers. Then perhaps in all categories there are dishonests and those who are not correct must be prosecuted. But you can't go back to the far west: if someone is a lover of an ideology not liberal, but liberal, at this point you have to have the courage to free everyone. Let's take the rules off the taxi drivers, then, if you love this unbridled liberalism of yours, otherwise we favor someone yes and someone else doesn't. And since every time someone protects themselves and someone else doesn't, there is a doubt and so we could ask the person who wrote the amendment: what is the interest in making an amendment that only favours someone? Maybe he'll explain. We'd be curious to know. We would like to know if there is a direct or indirect passion or interest to regulate such a specific thing. We would like to understand why these amendments are being made. Maybe tomorrow we will be told, to us, to the category of taxi drivers, to that of the NCCs and above all to all those who have made lawsuits and now they will see the judicial system high, because if first there is a rule, then there is another one, which is later changed and reciprocated again, the principle of favor rei will produce yet another judicial chaos. For now, people don't take taxis, because taxi drivers protest because of Senator Lanzillotta! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u24	Mr President, I shall be making the speech with difficulty, because it is objective: at the moment, we are forced to intervene without knowing whether the text that came out of the Commission is the same that the Government has tabled with the maxi amendment. First, the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr Finocchiaro, said that it is basically the same, he did not say that it is the same, which means that there have been changes and it is objectively unthinkable that a serious debate can be developed without knowing what we are debating. I challenge anyone, any citizen, to take one of these 28 pages that we had at our disposal not more than half an hour ago, a heart attack of amendments that add to the original text and fit into existing laws, and to manage to distangle in a few minutes and to understand that there is in here. This is the method that the Government uses to impose laws on the country: not on Parliament, but on the country and citizens! This is a method of subjects, not respectful of those who pay taxes and simply want to exercise rights: through these laws, in fact, it is not possible to exercise rights, but the interests of the lobby are imposed. This is what is happening again this time. What is happening out here in the square and in all the other squares of Italy should be a serious alarm bell for a Government that cares not to its reputation as such, but to the interest and good of the country. Ask yourself why the citizens are protesting and manifesting! And do not give an answer like that which Mary Antoinette gave, when she was told that the people were hungry and no longer had bread: Give him the croissants, give him the croissants, give him the That is your attitude: mocking, not taking things seriously. And then we admonish you, for the umpteenth time: you are joking with fire, because people are angry and not by chance, but because they see their rights trampled on. In here - this I managed to find, on page 8, we do not know what else there is - there is the amendment tabled by Senator Lanzillotta, the one to which my colleague Cioffi mentioned, and that, as they say, makes pig meat of the whole system, which should be legal, of the management of the transport with driver, of the taxis and of the licenses. You see, Mr President, we are now used to reminding ourselves that there is nothing more definitive in Italy than what is provisional. Only in a country like this exists the thousand-pronged decree, with which the government, instead of facing the problems, transfers them to the next exercise. This system today has become not only a way to delay the solution of problems, but even to allow those who take advantage of the illegality to be able to continue to exercise lawlessness: this is the paradox that has arrived. Between one page and the other of this decree-law, Mr President, these are hidden. (Senator Candiani waves a bunch of fake notes.) The bribes! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] What is hidden in these decrees is corruption, otherwise we must explain how the Government can present this bill, Act 2630 Senate, presented by the President of the Council of Ministers Gentiloni Silveri, in agreement with the Minister of Economics and Finance Padoan: the same Padoan who goes to Europe and then returns to Italy and comes to say that it is necessary to be credible and serious in order to have room for further concessions when it is necessary to approve the budget. How can we be credible and serious - I ask you and I, Mr President - if on page 28 of the report to the bill of conversion the Government writes: It extends until 31 December 2017 the deadline for issuing the decree by which (...) the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, in agreement with the Minister of Economic Development and after agreement with the unified Conference, adopts implementing provisions - heard! - attempts to prevent abuse of the taxi service and the rental service with driver. Here the government has written that the situation of abuse is known and that, instead of dealing with it, it prolongs its term to the future. And this has been happening for years! But how long can we allow a government to ridicule our country? How long can it be allowed to be written in the laws that abuse exists, that the Government knows and that instead of dealing with it moves them forward? If we add to this amendments such as the one tabled by Senator Lanzillotta, the infamous 9.20, and the square gets pissed off, the square is right, because it says here that the rules no longer apply. This is what is happening: the rules do not apply, because there is always someone else who allows you to take advantage of them, the so-called friends of friends. And no more friends' system! We have already attended dinners between Uber and the members of the Government, meetings between Uber and Renzi to decline the way in which the laws are to be made. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] We remember these things and people - be serene President Renzi, be serene President Gentiloni Silveri - do not forget them. President Grasso, the City of Florence, in recent months, has banned 70 new licenses for taxi service for consideration: to have that right to work, citizens who pay taxes paid 175,000 euros. With this change in the rules, you say that that is pig meat, that it is worth nothing and that anyone who works in abuse can continue to do so, you say that a system funded by a multinational like Uber can operate on our territory without rules. This is what is happening and this is what you have written in this provision and to which we strongly oppose, because it is not serious towards those who are honest, those who want to work honestly. In this measure there are extensions for the management of the Irpinia earthquake, which has been going on for 37 years. In here there are extensions for the payments of the citizens who have suffered the earthquake in recent years and in recent days: not the cancellation of the folders, not the exemption from taxes, but their postponement, so in the end they will receive another killer. There is little to go around saying that the government is taking action to help those populations recover, if it fails to close the police management of the earthquake of Irpinia of 37 years ago and inserts the extension for the payment of taxes of the citizens earthquakeed today. Who are you kidding? Give the licenses to those who do not have them and let there be abuse, where it should instead be found and deleted. We are disgusted by this thousandfold and the protest outside is a legitimate protest, made by people who only ask to work in a serious country, in a country where the rules are known. It is time to stop putting one person against another, without guaranteeing compliance with the rules. We have seen here how the Constitution has been modified and - God's goodness - the people have made it clear that we are not going anywhere on that road. Apparently, however, the government, which is the photocopy of the Renzi Government, did not understand the lesson, because it continues to deal with lobbying, it continues to deal with those who are interested in them not in the light of the sun. We ask only this, that there be seriousness, that you end it with meetings at the Nazarene then imposed on the country with constant fibrillations, which will simply produce the exasperation of the citizens. Stop it. Let's go vote, bring democracy back to this country and leave the lobbying outside Parliament. Other than to present to the Chamber of Deputies a bill - which supports, among other things, the treasurer of PD Bonifazi - that wants to intervene to regulate the management between politics and lobby. Here's how PD's policy works with lobbyists! Here's how PD's policy works with lobbyists! (Senator Candiani shows a bribe of counterfeit notes.) This is your way of doing it! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We are ashamed of this; such a provision is not worthy to enter these classrooms. President, you did well last week when, as you wrote a few newspapers, you saved the government's face by declaring unacceptable that amendment that had nothing to do with the decree-law that we had in conversion to give money to Monte dei Paschi, an amendment that instead wanted to give money to cover, with a guarantee of trust, the Ryder Cup, a golf race. It was good. I ask you again, Mr President, to look at this measure and ask who will then have to countersign it, to the President of the Republic, to think about it well, because this measure has nothing to do with the expectations of seriousness that citizens have on the outside and not even with the preaching of seriousness that the Government is making in the newspapers or when it has to go abroad. You systematically betray commitments. Systematically. It is always the same refrain of Renzi himself who, when he has to put himself in the game, says "I leave politics, if I lose the referendum " and now he is making false cards to return to the field. As long as he does it with his own party, worse for them, but when these fibrillations move to the country, I say "damnation to you" because you send the country to ruin! [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]] That's what you're doing. The seriousness, the word given: "I leave politics." Get out of here! And let the citizens speak freely with democratic elections! You're making fake cards and you've done it in the past few hours. President, are you aware that, for the umpteenth time, two Senators of the Democratic Party, Gotor and Migliavacca, have been replaced in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs because they would have expressed an opinion and a vote not aligned with the political line of the Secretary of the Democratic Party Renzi? [[Senator Albano's comments.]] Do you know that this has happened? This does not reflect the right to express themselves freely that the representatives of the people must have. This has happened, and it is the same method that we saw when the PD put in place constitutional reform and continue to do so because the Gentiloni Government Silveri is the ugly copy, the photocopy for worse, with the maneuver on it, of the Renzi government, with the same way of doing. But let Renzi go and do what is most congenial to him: the pitcher. Go play Wanna Marchi on TV, go sell the pans, at least she'll have a reason to live. Get a decent job! Do something that makes him useful, because the only thing he's done so far is talk, be a politician. He comes here to say things and then he does the opposite in his party. Rather, go linearly to do what your partner and partner Tony Blair did: go be a representative of JP Morgan or Goldman Sachs. At least he will do it in the light of day, at least he will know that he is a lobbyist; do not let the senators do it through amendments submitted to the milleproroghe to go and do favors to friends and lobbyists. No, President, we say no! Let's say no to Bolkestein; let's say no to this way of doing it; let's say no to this government. You have to leave now! We will vote no to this measure, because we want it to be known that there are still those in here who defend the people: there are not only the representatives of the lobby, because the League defends the people and the rights of those who want to work in a free country, with serious rules, recognized and true. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The sooner you go home, the sooner you go back to the polls, the sooner you plant it with this pantomime and the country will finally be serious again. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u25	I greet on behalf of the Assembly of teachers, students and students of the Agricultural Technical Institute "Vittorio Emanuele II" in Catanzaro, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u26	Senator Fucksia is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u27	Mr President, yesterday we had the opportunity to debate and, in the course of the debate, there were even more shameful arguments than those contained in the so-called thousand-pronge. I don't want to argue, I want clarity. I do not accept that someone else accuses someone else of "talking to the belly," because heart and belly are two completely different concepts, and especially because what has been argued was not the fruit of the belly but an objective reasoning that other people, instead, have not done. No one here wants to put a barrier, an impediment to research; we would miss it: we want more culture, more research; we want more science and more competence. We also want greater objectivity in what is being said. I do not accept, then, that a President of the Commission should say: "And see that they are persons who are not indeductible simply in the interests they are constituted." What does "constituted interest" mean? Then we talk about Telethon. We all make donations, but then we ask ourselves, once and for all, what do Telethon's money produce? Researchers are given misery and are unworthyly exploited for a civilized country that wants to do serious research. Rather, let us see what interests are and who earns money behind such an association. There is further disinformation - which is very serious, I repeat, because it comes from the President of the Health and Health Commission - because one thing is research (for cancers, for rare diseases), another thing is to justify the usefulness of understanding, for example, smoking damage. Smoking damage is certain: smoking is carcinogenic, it causes arteriosclerosis, aging and a whole range of other problems. We do not need further trials that certify what medicine and science have known for years. Then we have to make distinctions. If we have not properly transposed the European directives, as often happens to us, then we are making ad hoc measures and we are also giving a direction in Europe, because it will also make sense if we are one of the most important countries in Europe, even if we have all the shortcomings and problems. Let us address the issues of substance once and for all and in the right places. It is useless for us to legislate on certain matters several times, and therefore we are confusing, and then to derogate because the rules are complicated and not applicable. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. FUCKSIA (Mixed). Therefore, we must go back and where, instead, we need to legislate does not legislate. In this connection, Mr President, since you are the chair of the work - and I trust you - I would once again urge the famous timetable for the draft law No 1482 by my signature. When we discuss this, we will have the opportunity to deal with these issues once and for all, to clarify on the basis of the infringement that Europe is challenging us, but by showing it to Parliament, not by postulating it, inventing it or threatening it, but by reasoning on what we have been asked exactly, because otherwise it is confusing. Apart from the reordering and Bolkestein speech, a directive that should be reviewed by making our presence in Europe feel differently, the last point I would like to address is the retirement age. Not all jobs are the same: let's review once and for all the discourse of the retirement age, because there is a difference between those who make the notary, the magistrate or the university professor (professionals where the experience makes added value) and those who do a customary job. This is an important issue. Addressing these issues would be a demonstration to the country that this Parliament has a sense of responsibility and interest towards its citizens. I conclude by pointing out that, compared to the four thousand-pronged measures we have voted on, the latter, as it stands today, is absolutely the most unworthy. I therefore put forward my vote against. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cervellini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u28	Mr President, I will try to use the few minutes at my disposal to address an issue that was also raised by the previous senators. If we are in a position not to know the merit of a measure that deals with multiple and very delicate issues, at least let's take it as an opportunity to determine further changes. And we do it in the dark, because there are some who cry out for revenge, because there are commitments that are not undefeated by oppositions or by majorities, but by ministers who direct these policies. As for the matter and the choices to make in local public transport and the responsibilities concerning certain categories, in recent months we have had a challenging confrontation, and also the opposition has taken responsibility to tell those categories to do more, to make a contribution to this country in a very delicate sector in the big cities, which risks to make water from all sides, in order to be able to face together and solve fundamental problems. The right to transport, in a modern country, is a fundamental right: when denied, in some cases the consequences are tragic and change material living conditions. I have seen that those categories have made extraordinary progress in relation to recent attitudes - I am not afraid to say so - marked by corporatism; I repeat, they have taken extraordinary steps taking on problems such as those with regard to the disadvantaged populations or the elderly. In line with the most virtuous local authorities, these categories have taken on and practice such activities towards the elderly and the disabled at the most difficult times. But all those promises of tables at the Ministry and meetings with the parties were systematically ignored, except "put in" amendments at night that come from the big lobby. We know very well not only the names and names of the senators and senators who sign them, but we know who those amendments are: the big lobby that does not pay taxes in our country, that do not take charge of those social figures that I used to call back. I am referring, for example, to Uber and turbulentism. We criticize that Europe, which is not social, and sometimes the Government pretends, as does the former President of the Council, to question that Europe, but it is precisely in cases such as this that it is called into question: when one allows a fabric that is part of the world of work, such as that of private transport, to grow, taking on social aspects as well, or when one does not oppose the hyperliberal vision of the Bolkestein directive, which allows the invasion by large multinationals and allows them to explant a commercial fabric, also characterized by the local element. With this speech I would like to make a final appeal, since we have been told that the text, which we do not yet know and on which trust has been placed, can be the subject of some speeches and - I add - some explicit cuts. It would be a good thing if we did not find in the final document the amendments referring to private public transport and the bad story of streetwalkers. This would allow us to be credible, as institutions, also in relation to another fulfillment, which I expect from Minister Delrio: the convocation of the table, which had been promised several times (but the parties have never been called), aimed at addressing these issues in an organic way together with the local authorities. Otherwise, only the strongest players will win. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Cervellini. CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). I shall conclude, Mr President. With this measure you are putting your fingers in the eyes of hundreds of thousands of women, men and families, and you are saying that those who disrespect the rules are stronger and therefore win the competition, while those who take responsibility for the more general problems of our cities are always destined to suffer. Where do you live? Maybe you live only in the historic centers of the cities and you don't know the exterminated suburbs, which would go into paralysis and pack themselves, if these categories didn't take care of their problems. We have and still have a few minutes, or perhaps a few hours to prevent this thousand-pronged measure from causing the devastation of what is left of our productive fabric. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u29	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u30	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my colleague Lanzillotta, who, with her brilliant amendment initiative, has put in great difficulty all those who have come to Rome today for work and have found themselves, like me, in the need to take a taxi as a matter of urgency, in order to reach the historic centre or the Senate. All people who, like me today, will need to take an emergency taxi, perhaps to go to the hospital or emergency room or for any other fact of their lives, will have to thank the senator of PD, Linda Lanzillotta heartily. Citizens, remember! I would now like to remind you of what is happening with the thousand-pronged measure under consideration in relation to the field of cultural goods and activities. Minister Franceschini and the Government have decided not to extend the forecast relating to the amounts deriving from the ticketing of the Colosseum and the excavations of Pompeii, that is, two goods belonging to two special superintendences, which end directly in the coffers of the Ministry and are therefore removed from the coffers of such special superintendences, as provided for in an amendment of the law of stability. We asked for an extension because Minister Franceschini must first stop making reforms through amendments or acts that come only to Parliament for the expression of an opinion. It has done so with the reform of the Single Fund for entertainment, which is the largest fund to which resources are drawn to finance cultural activities and institutions; it has done so with the reform of the Ministry's organization; it has done so when it has set up the large museums and is doing it again now: with an amendment to the budget law it subtracts resources from the special superintendences (it will certainly re-release them, but meanwhile it subtracts them directly and collects millions of euros). We asked for an extension to allow special superintendents to organize themselves; however, with the political battle taking place in Rome, through Minister Franceschini the Government was well aware of the need for an extension. On the other hand, the public selection procedure is extended for the permanent recruitment of 500 officials; in fact, it is known that the Ministry is under management and most of the problems of protecting our artistic heritage derive from the lack of a numerically adequate staff, but the Ministry extends the selection procedures because it prefers to rely on volunteering, in spite of the skills that it requires for the protection of our heritage, or entrusts to the company ALES SpA these activities to fill the gaps. We could then talk about the contracts of continuous collaboration (co.co.co), that risk to remain without job, having eliminated this type of contract and not having cured the situation. In the school there is also an extension for the redevelopment and safety of schools: a big failure for the commercial of the former Premier (now Premier Shadow? Matteo Renzi on school building. Remember when he showed his slides about beautiful schools, safe schools, new schools? It seemed that from there to a few months in Italy we would all have suitable schools with appropriate classes, maybe even efficient and put in safety; instead we are exactly at the starting point, as in many other fields, because, beyond the commercial and the announcement, the former Renzi Government was able to do nothing but marketing and this time on the skin of students. Then what do we still have? The culture card has been extended, not just because it ended up on sale on eBay, to the face of cultural change. Many of these cards have ended up on eBay, because obviously also in that case our former Premier and our former minister Giannini (who perhaps never went down from the ivory towers of the rectorate of the university and does not know the world of public school and young people) thought well to make this card but without monitoring the situation to be sure that there were an adequate number of exhibitors who had joined this campaign and that it was possible to have a digital account working to be able to use it. In short, the usual things done in Italian: the card culture was announced because in 2016 there was a need for the votes of these eighteen-year-olds, but then these cards are sold on eBay or those who want to use it cannot do so. Finally, there is the extension of the millionaire appropriations for the lyrical-symphonic foundations, thanks to a nice amendment by Senator Puglisi, who obviously cares about their fate and what is happening at the Arena in Verona at this time and therefore allows the extension of the money allocated to the aforementioned foundations. The municipal theatre of Bologna thanks Senator Puglisi. These observations only aim to make a panoramic flight, as there would be more to say, for example on measures for young emerging musicians, who have not been renewed. Therefore, it is thanks to other circuits that a young man can hope to become a songwriter and to be able to live his own art, certainly not for these contributions that have not been renewed. [[Applause from Senator Serra.]] All these people, the world of culture and school, once again thank the Democratic Party and its emeritus senators for these beautiful measures that have flowed into the milleprorogues. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u31	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u32	Mr President, I am speaking to announce the vote in favour of this measure by myself and my colleagues who refer to the new political initiatives on the organisation of a political field on the left, i.e. the progressive field, for the content, generally speaking, of this measure and for certain issues that have been dealt with and resolved. I would like to take this opportunity to mention one which concerns the Sassari-Olbia artery, as it has been the subject of an intervention by the General Accounting Office of the State in the field of special accounts, which was then successful in the Commission. We can finally, in the coming months (and by 2020 anyway), see completed an artery that is known to be the artery of the dead and of the mourning. A road artery that has been waiting to be completed for decades and that, finally, remaining in the special accounting to which it is assigned, can be completed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u33	I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Tonini, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of amendment 1,800.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u34	Mr President, the 5th Commission, which met until a few minutes ago, examined, as its mandate, the cover profiles, as you pointed out in your request to convene, of course, in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government. This dual expression tells us the area in which the Commission is moving: in this case, the Commission does not express an opinion with one vote, because, precisely, we are at a stage in which the Government has put the question of trust in a text. Therefore, the Constitution provides for a very clear path on this aspect, as well as the Senate Rules. However, it is right that there should be this examination of the cover profiles, and that it should be carried out in the context of a well-established practice, a conventional practice that calls on the Government to put the question of trust not on any text, but on the text voted and therefore emerged from the Commission's work on the subject. This practice was established in the 14th legislature, with the now famous Morando-Pera praise. It was first applied to the financial law, as it was then called, then became the law of stability and today the law of budget. Then, by analogy, it was extended to all the draft laws on which the Government raises the question of trust, in particular when it comes to very complex texts, which involve a work also of some sort of attention to details, details, referrals and referrals, with a very complex technical work such as that required by the milleproroghe. As regards this verification of the homogeneity of the text proposed for the vote with the question of confidence, therefore the text of the maxi amendment, with the text that emerged from the Commission's work on the substance, only two amendments of a purely technical nature, let us say, are mentioned. The first concerns amendment 13,2002, which has been incorporated into the text of the maxi amendment, by implementing the annex which contained the agreement between the International Monetary Fund and the Bank of Italy, for clearly institutional reasons. First of all it is a text written in English, and therefore it would be rather irrational to include in a law of the Italian Republic, a text written in English, and then contains a clear reference to the procedures used in ratifications, and of course it would be improper to include a ratification in the text of an ordinary law. The second amendment relates to amendment 9.67, which was also approved by the Commission, which essentially introduced an extension to a rule introduced by the 2015 Stability Act, a rule already extended in the current budgetary law and therefore would have been a completely improper encore. Therefore, the Minister spoke of a substantially identical text and the text is actually essentially identical, apart from the above changes which, as the House will be able to grasp (and certainly this was the opinion shared in the Budget Committee), are purely technical. We then have a more complex subject: the technical report attached to the maxi amendment has been boiled down, and therefore approved by the General Accounting Office of the State, but with three conditions which concern three points of which either the amendment or the removal from the text of the maxi amendment is requested. The first point concerns Senator Uras' amendment 9.56 (text 3) approved in the Commission, and the technical report says that, in essence, the planned extension of the special accounts covering the Sassari-Olbia artery until 2020 is contrary to the provisions of Law No 243 of 2012. This observation of the General Accountant of the State is impeccable. In paragraph 8 of article 15 of law n. 243 - which is a reinforced law and therefore for us absolutely important and which must prevail over any ordinary law - we read: The law of the State governs the progressive overrun of the accounting managements operating on special accounts or current cash accounts and the consequent reduction of the relative financial resources to the budget of the State. It is clear, therefore, that the extension of special accounting conflicts with this rule provided for in Law No 243. However, the norm is not peremptory because it speaks of "progressive surpassing" and, of course, in this case, we must understand what is meant by this expression. Now, it is clear that we are in the presence of a work in advanced stage of realization for which the change of accounting would risk to lead to a interruption or a delay in its completion. I therefore believe that the absolutely strategic nature of a region such as Sardinia and the exceptional nature of this work can help us overcome the objection of the Accounting Office which, in any case, cannot be described as an objection under Article 81 of the Constitution because it has nothing to do with the cover profiles, as the President of the Senate has asked us to note. Therefore, noting the exceptional nature of the rule, which must not constitute a precedent since the provision provided for in Law No 243 of 2012 concerning the progressive overcoming must be maintained and strengthened, but we do not seem to have the extremes for an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution (where we were there). Our recommendation to the Government is, therefore, to maintain in the text of the maxi amendment the amendment tabled by Senator Uras, as is the case in the current text. On the other hand, it is the case of two other observations of the Accounting Office, which concern, the first, Article 13, paragraph 2-a, on the litigation on excise duties of self-production of energy and, the second, Article 14, paragraphs 7-b and 7-c, on the loans of Emilia and the suspension of taxes: both observations have importance from the point of view of coverage. In the first case, the Accounting Office expresses itself in an absolutely peremptory way: The amendment is liable to result in lower unquantified and unquantifiable revenue, and therefore, in an ordinary meeting of the 5th Commission for the assessment of the text, we would make an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. In the case of the other provision, albeit with a softer formula, it is said, however, that the provision is not absent, since it lacks a technical assessment of the quantification of the charges indicated in this provision, and the Treasury Department adds that it has expressed an opinion contrary to the provision in view of its inapplicability due to the link between the extension and the completion of the contribution for reconstruction, which should be verified for each beneficiary. In both cases, therefore, these opinions are contrary from the point of view of coverage and therefore we recommend that the Government take account of the remarks of the General Accounting Officer. In addition, two last comments have emerged from the debate in the Commission: Senator Comaroli pointed out that the opinion of nulla precludes expressed on paragraph 14-c of the maxi amendment in his opinion present some critical profiles, as the rule extending a deadline can lead to a lower revenue (refers to the rule concerning the lottery on receipts). However, the Accounting Office maintains and certifies that this rule does not result in any burden on public finance; I refer therefore to the question raised by Senator Comaroli, on which, however, there are no elements that allow the Government to ask for a change of text. Finally, a question has been raised concerning the internal life of the Senate, in particular by Senator Azzollini, but with the wider sharing of the Commission, concerning the former amendment 13.2002, from which the annex I mentioned earlier has been deleted. This proposal addresses such a complex and important issue of substance that, in the opinion of some Commissioners, it would have recommended a joint reading with the Budget Commission, given the importance of the proposed subject. This is an issue that I turn to our reflection and, in particular, to that of the President, for the next few times. That concludes my report to the House on the work of the 5th Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You asked the Deputy Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance to intervene, Dr. Morando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u35	Mr President, the Government has taken note, already in the course of the Commission's work, of what President Tonini has now referred to the text of the so-called maxi amendment. Therefore, the Government, by virtue of the emphasis that President Tonini has just proposed here in the Chamber, of the exceptional nature of this opinion of the Budget Committee, agrees to maintain, with regard to Sassari-Olbia, the text of the maxi amendment as it is, not modifying it as requested by the technical report, for a precise reason. If the Commission had been in the normal course of its activities, it would not have been able to give an opinion against that text under Article 81. It remains that that rule, as it is, keeping a special accounting, is in violation of article 15, paragraph 8, of Law n. 243 of 2012 (the reinforced law that presides over the accounting and the budgetary decision). So it is only by virtue of this exceptionalness that we agree to leave the text as it is. Instead, the Government accepts the proposal to remove from the text the two amendments on which the Commission has agreed, albeit without a vote, but - as President Tonini has recalled - with a basically shared opinion, on the basis of technical and non-political assessments. The Government therefore accepts to expunge from the text what refers to the other two exceptions raised in the technical report, namely Article 13, paragraph 2-a (amendment 13.7), and Article 14, paragraphs 7-b and 7-c (amendment 1429), on which problems have been proposed that, if the Commission had been in the normal course of its activity, it would certainly have decided to cash in with an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u36	We take note of the government's decision. I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u39	Mr Bruni (CoR). Mr President, I do not want to give in to hypocrisy about the subject of a thousand-pronge and the need to resort to measures such as a thousand-pronge, which could be the easy one to say that this Government uses a thousand-pronge because it is not effective in its action, because all the measures should be brought to an end regardless of lengths or administrative uncertainties, which then need longer deadlines. This could be said by those who only want to make an easy demagogy and use the method of hypocrisy to evaluate the government's action. It is normal that for any government, whether it be the central government or that of less complex bodies, such as regions and local authorities, some issues have to be dragged from year to year and from budget to budget, because this is part of the ordinaryness of things. For my part, therefore, there is no condemnation of the use of this type of instrument. Of course, in a decree-law like the milleproroghe you cannot think of resolving even things that drag from one year to the next only for minimal delays. The problem of using an instrument such as the Multipronge Decree-Law is precisely to postpone each issue from year to year, because perhaps we did not have the courage to make choices or because the Government did not follow a line of implementation of the previous programmes and projects and we are simply trying to stop, not having very clear which wants to be the final landing place. I shall give examples in this regard later on, which testify to this very fact. On the other hand, in the passage of witness between the Renzi Government and that Gentiloni the idea of deferring some questions because the distinctive figure of the Renzi Government was precisely to deal with some great ads - we have repeated so many times - that they were part of the daily narrative of President Renzi; great commercials launched through the traditional media and the social media that then translated into great failures or great unfinished. It is useless to mention the cases of good school and the jobs act submitted to referendums. Good school has been the object of the rebellion of the school world, because in fact it does not go in the direction desired by the government. The same reform Madia has been subject to several interventions of evaluation of constitutional legitimacy and in any case attention also by the Council of State. In fact, it has been shown that the delegation law already had defects, and that the implementing decrees also pose important problems. Then, of course, the government action was further stagnated during the referendary period, which resulted in an inertia, paralysis, total government because all the attention was directed to the successful outcome of the referendum. From this inertia arose the need for the milleproroghe, which does not deal with the necessary extensions and sacrosing that can be naturalized to the action of government, but of a whole series of unfinished and unresolved issues. I could quote a lot of them. Some measures are certainly worthwhile. I am thinking of the derogation with regard to the rules on the annual recruitment of the prison police with the sliding of the rankings, but it is a small thing compared to much wider problems concerning the prison police and the world that revolves around it, namely the organization of our prison system. It is in fact a small palliative that solves nothing. Before concluding, I would like to mention the most striking case of these days: the rebellions and protests concerning the Bolkestein directive. Regardless of the substance of the amendment introduced in the decree milleproroghe, the inactivity of the Renzi Government of the last three years must be censored, which has crossed over with regard to the changes of the law of transposition of the Bolkestein directive for the marine state property and the question of the streetwalkers and the commerce in public area, waiting for decisions from the European Court of Justice that have then turned out to be inauspicious for our operators. Only for a few days there is a draft law of the Government, but the uncertainties are total and drag from year to year and even the extension produced these days is simply a further element of confusion that does not resolve the issue. The government had to decide; it did not do so because it was taken by demagogic actions and by the great referendum, which then represented the great collapse of an era that has now ended. For these reasons I declare the Conservative and Reformist Group's vote against. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u40	I would like to take a moment to draw the attention of President Tonini, who made a comment on the allocation of the measures by the Presidency. With regard to this reflection, which I certainly accept, I would remind you that it is not conceivable that the allocation of the measure can be conditioned by the amendments that are being tabled. By definition, these are possible, therefore, when there are, the 5th Commission has the opportunity here to make its comments, as it has done. The idea of co-allocation in relation to an amendment is a parliamentary practice that has never been followed. I therefore thank you for your comment, but I am sorry, we will have to continue this way.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u43	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would remind you that last year we joined the Commission in order to avoid these issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u44	I am talking about the initial allocation according to the amendments tabled. That is another problem: if it is considered to make a joint allocation, it is done from the start, not according to the amendments that are tabled. That's the point, Senator Comaroli, maybe I didn't make myself clear.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u45	Thank you for the clarification, Mr President. However, it is certainly not us who say that the milleproroghe does not serve, we would miss it. What makes species, in particular, are the rules contained in it. It is regrettable to see some extension rules, especially on issues that we have just addressed. Let me give an example: a short time ago we dealt with the earthquake measure and now in this thousand-pronge we find ourselves with extensions that we had already pointed out in that measure, with amendments that this Government rejected: it happens, now, that we find those extensions. With reference to the earthquakes that occurred in 2016, let's take the example of the postponement of the mortgages and bills of gas, electricity and whatever else, that we had already highlighted; but now, the government finally realized that what we said was correct and expected the extension. Moreover, it is correct to extend it for the Provinces and Metropolitan Cities, which can even hire staff even if they have not achieved the balance and respected the objectives. In this case too, however, how long have we been saying that the continuous cuts made to the Provinces do not enable them to provide the services? Finally, even in this case the government has noticed that something is wrong. With regard to the extension of the adaptation of fire safety standards in schools, it is also crazy to think of extending a rule so that the safety of institutions and the fire safety standards of schools attended by children can be postponed. However, let us ask ourselves why we must come to this point and make provision for an extension: again, the government has made continuous cuts to the municipalities, which do not have the funds to be able to comply with rules that should be mandatory. There are still rules of extensions for Pompeii. How many measures have we found the Pompeii complex in? Is it possible that there is neither coordination nor a set goal with all the cultural project around Pompeii? No: one gets to a point and, even here, they emphasize the government's failure. With regard to jobs act, which is considered to be a major measure, an extension is also envisaged in this case, allowing public administrations to conclude collaboration contracts prohibited by the jobs act. But why is public administration allowed to enter into collaboration contracts while all the others, private individuals and private companies, cannot do so? Either you have a line, or you don't have it, or you can't stop others from doing something that public administration can do by way of derogation from the law. Speaking of Commissioners, we can understand the usefulness of extending the Commissioners in order to carry out the last acts that remain to be carried out, but we do not understand the extension of the Commissioner for the earthquake in the 1980s: we are talking about almost thirty-seven years ago, so perhaps something is wrong and here too more attention should be paid to doing things. Another point that we do not understand concerns RAI. Everyone, from the municipalities to the provinces, must make cuts, with the problems that this then generates and that I explained before, while the RAI instead can avoid to do so thanks to this extension that is granted. On the other hand, it would have been important to approve that amendment, which I regret was rejected, which called for an extension of a contribution of EUR 10 million for the financing of innovative treatments for cancer patients, all the more so when we think of the 290 million that are paid for the adult bonus, which was so important that the beneficiaries did not even fully benefit from it. Finally, we had dealt with the problem of homeopathic products. Many companies, since the legislation has changed and they have to renew the licenses, had asked to postpone the deadlines to submit this request, precisely because of the technical difficulty in preparing all the necessary documentation. In this case, however, the Government said no, not thinking about all the companies that are behind these products, which are used by 20% of the people in Italy. On the other hand, it is positive that the Government has understood the importance of contributing to the ANMIL association, which plays a very important role by providing support to people who have suffered an accident at work, changing their lives. Having said all this, Mr President, and also expressing regret at the way in which the work of the 5th Commission (which, as your President has already said, perhaps could have taken a more fruitful and incisive action on this matter) has taken place, we are convinced that this measure is not being taken, because it highlights what the Government has not done. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u48	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of the so-called'milleproroghe' decree has become a regular appointment for the parliamentary classrooms. A measure which contains a little bit of everything and which allows a number of deadlines to be extended. However, it is inevitable, as we have heard many times in this House, that once again the Government uses confidence in a clever manner, with the result that such a frequency is now perceived as almost constant in the national legislative procedure. And so we too, today, were nothing more than to testify that we have not become addicted to such an abuse, we highlight the persistent and inappropriate use of this specific instrument, rejecting the idea that the Government is entitled to resort to the vote of confidence on its measures in any way or moment. In fact, what seems to be totally ignored is that the political value of parliamentary confidence, placed with such a frequency, ceases to have that positive and noble character of guarantee of government action, so the executive power ends up replacing it with a negative and contemptuous form, with the legislative one. So often the government's measures, putting the question of trust on them, brings on the scene an embarrassing political blackmail to the Parliamentary Assembly. In a sense, therefore, the Chambers of Representation feel obliged to express a judgment of approval, thus decentralizing the attention: instead of expressing their opinion on the possible goodness of the decree and the norm itself, the majority merely confirms (regardless of the content) the compact support to the Government in office, in order to avoid unpleasant repercussions of system and political balance. This is also an attitude which strongly contradicts the logic and principle of the parliamentary republic. The centrality of the representative body par excellence is, in fact, threatened by a prevalence of solicitations and impositions that sound like ultimatums by the executive body, which ends up replacing the legitimate recipient of the legislative power, which is Parliament. Scenario moreover confirmed by the high amount of laws born through the mere conversion of decrees-laws or delegated laws, or forms recognized as exclusive prerogatives of the Government. The consequences of insistent recourse to the instrument of trust are, therefore, very serious, especially because of the value and the political significance that they contain in themselves. Such an institution should in fact be characterized by an exceptional, special and extraordinary character, so as to understand and underline its modest, if not rare, use. It is not a question of reproaching a trivial question of form or simple procedural practice in the proceedings of the two branches of Parliament; rather, there is an awareness of an attack on the basic principles of representation and political sovereignty which would be worth interrupting, completely restoring a wise separation of powers between Government and Parliament or, more simply, recovering a noble and solid respect for the individual prerogatives affirmed. These assessments couple with the abuse of the use of the decree of urgency embodied in the decrees law, at whose basis we should always identify the characteristics of necessity and urgency. In fact, net of the extensions that concern the public employment with the postponement of the terms in favor of the 40,000 precarious of the public administration, the suspension of the payment of the installments of the mortgages in the areas of the Central Italy affected by the earthquake, the 2,000 fixed-term contracts that are extended of a year still, we are faced with some extensions that we could define serial, in the sense that year after year we find them on the table, without that we can normalize a disposition of law born to govern the temporaryity of a situation. I am referring, for example, to the umpteenth extension (the fourth) of the operation of Sistri, i.e. the integrated waste traceability system, without which both the double registration system (paper and computer) for special waste would be lost and, above all, the sanctioning regime would be applied immediately for those who do not adapt. As well as it is curious that under the emergency heading the administrative technical unit for waste management in Campania will be extended once again, which will remain operational until 31 December. Not to mention the twelfth extension which is envisaged for the powers of the prefects called upon to solicit the municipalities in the approval of the forecast budgets. We are at the eleventh extension to counter abusive practices of taxi and driver rental services. Not to mention the fact that it would continue to be urgent as provided for in Article 9, namely to allow the Commissioner ad acta, appointed in 1980, for the Irpinia earthquake to remain in office for at least the whole year 2017. The thing that bewilders in cases like this is that this forecast is justified by the completion of infrastructure works that have remained abandoned for years, of functional road schemes, of administrative, technical, accounting and expropriative closures. We refer with ease to the complex work on the construction of new infrastructures and the industrial development of the earthquake areas of Campania, Basilicata, Puglia and Calabria, initiated by Law No. 219 of 1981. Ladies and gentlemen, thirty-five years have passed since that law and today that we have entered a new century we must still be told that the failure to complete the activities in the terms provided for by the law has not been caused by inertia or delays of the commissioner and its support structure, but by the difficulty - it is said - of managing complicated works, disputes and procedures, to which is added the need for interventions on works remained for years in the state of abandonment. These are our concerns, Mr President, and the fact that today we are still talking about earthquakes that have devastated our lands in decades past also makes us rather sad and pessimistic compared to the calamitous events of this year. These are the reasons why our Group will vote against the government's confidence.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u51	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, this once again is the emblem of a regulatory system that can never be punctual in fulfilling its obligations under the law. The rapporteur, Mr Collina, has rightly acknowledged this, and we note the great mediation work carried out in the first Commission on crucial points of the measure. Of course, taking up the rapporteur's words, the milleproroghe is also an extremely important tool to give a solution, albeit partial, to the various problems linked to the failure to implement legislation and to deal with the emergency situations that have occurred dramatically in recent months. However, in a functioning parliamentary democracy, this instrument should be an exception, an anomaly, and instead, since 2001 it has become a rule on which governments of all colors have settled, including so-called technical ones. We should all be faced with a fundamental political problem: how can a state ask taxpayers to respect the deadlines that are systematically imposed on them if, in the last few useful days, governments issue a decree - the thousandprorogations, in fact - that from the name sounds like a lot of mockery? In fact, this measure is a congery of special measures that often complicates the lives of citizens by introducing changes and postponements in tax matters that are out of time. The civilization of a country is also measured by legal certainty. Many Presidents of the Council have recognised the need for a reform of the legislative procedure, which makes it impossible both to plan legislative production and, for citizens, to keep pace with continuous and often disordered changes. Similarly, since the Quirinale, for many years now, there have been high warnings to the Executives that they should not take measures that are uneven, and therefore contrary to the Constitution. Yet nothing has ever really changed, as shows, precisely, the periodic re-proposing of this measure full of heterogeneous contents, which thus confirms the structural difficulties of our political and administrative system. This year, too, there are disparate extensions covering the various sectors: public administration, work, social policies, education, universities and research, the competences of the Ministries of the Interior, Defence, Justice, Economic Development, Economy and Finance. And then, again, communication and publishing, health, infrastructure and transport, culture, environment, until the extension of the deadlines related to emergency interventions, such as those on the earthquake. Almost the world universe, in short, and this proliferation of extensions is the most tangible sign of a chaotic and inefficient way of lawmaking, very far from the needs of the real country, the daily problems that our citizens and our businesses face, but also the local administrators. An example for all: the extension of fixed-term and project contracts for the Provinces is yet another confirmation of the failure of the Delrio law, which from 2014 to today has emptied these bodies of personnel and above all of resources, but not of fundamental functions, such as spatial planning, roads, school construction, public and private transport. A regulatory uncertainty that was congenital to a misconceived reform and that was aggravated by the rejection of constitutional reform, which absolved the Provinces and reduced the legislative competences of the Regions. The Delrio law has transformed the Provinces into entities of wide area, but the Provinces continue to exist as lame ducks even if they remain in our Constitution. To this must be added the combined disposition of the failure of the reform of the public administration, to which this decree-law has had to bear responsibility through a series of extensions that also concern the Regions, the Provinces and the local authorities. In this way, the Provinces will at least be able to approve their budgets for the current year, but this is a patch that does not heal the plague that has been caused. Also in the matter of public administration, the Government seems to have noticed only in December that, because of the jobs act, which contains the prohibition of renewal of term contracts and collaborations, 40,000 precarious of the public administration would have remained in 2017 without work. Problems clearly escaped in the process of implementing the so-called "Madia" reform. Of course, as far as local authorities are concerned, a few steps have been taken, trying to overcome the season of linear cuts and the strict rules of the internal stability pact, but it is clear that it will take much more to ensure that the sector has a stable regulatory and financial framework made up of certain and lasting rules. Having said that, there are then - and have already been mentioned in previous interventions - extensions of the deadline for adapting schools to the fire regulations, which is being extended once again. Here we talk about the safety of the 42,000 Italian school buildings, and the paradox is that we are talking about the application of rules dating back to 1992, but that systematic extensions have frustrated all these years. Yet the safety of pupils and teachers should be the priority of priorities for the state. We know that the extension depends on the cut in resources to the municipalities and provinces, but the former Premier, if I recall correctly, assured us that the stability of schools is more important than the financial stability of the European Union. Let us try, at least from now on, to be consequent, because it is no longer tolerable that 60% of Italian schools are not compliant. The same applies to tens of thousands of hotel facilities which are not suitable for fire prevention. Then there are joke rules, such as the Turin 2006 Olympic Games, and the aforementioned extension, which concerns the Commissioner for the earthquake in Irpinia, which dates back thirty-seven years. Nothing new, only the automatic continuation of an all-Italian misconception, of a bad exception become rule. That is why we will vote against the government's confidence in this decree-law. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u54	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, as the PSI-MAIE Group for Autonomies, we have taken part in an in-depth examination of the substance of the measure, which has also allowed changes and changes to be made to the text of the Government Decree-Law. We appreciated the position of dialogue and constructive confrontation that the Government has been able to propose with the majority and opposition groups. As a Group for Autonomies we have made proposals to postpone the terms, not in contrast to the provisions of the law, but with the aim of making the norms sustainable for the purposes of the territorial government or the protection of the economic, productive and social categories concerned. We can only appreciate that many of our proposals have been accepted. We have, for example, obtained an extension of the time limits for Alpine shelters to meet the fire prevention requirements laid down in the new regulation introduced in 2011. Having obtained an extension at the end of 2017, compared to the previous deadline, for alpine shelters only, is an indication of the awareness gained in terms of their peculiarity and the particular complexity and honesty of the adaptation interventions in the high mountains. Also positive is the extension of the adaptation of the fire regulations for hotels with more than twenty-five beds until the end of the current year. The modernisation required by the new legislation requires particularly costly structural measures, especially in times of crisis. Hotel companies do not ask for exceptions, but for progressive time and arrangements to adapt to practicable costs. The extension of the time limits for the adaptation of small agricultural plants, subject to the new provisions on fire prevention, now provides for easier adaptation conditions for agricultural enterprises, with a significant reduction in the costs to be incurred, for example, in relation to agricultural machinery supply tanks. At the same time, the extension of the deadline to achieve the approval for the use of agricultural machinery will allow all about 500,000 people involved to attend the relevant training and updating courses, which until now for organizational reasons was possible only for a small part of the interested parties, thus avoiding negative repercussions for agriculture. With regard to the major problem of repealing the Intrastat system and introducing the new meter, we have helped to find an acceptable solution for all the categories concerned. I therefore declare the Group's vote in favour of the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u57	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we have already had the opportunity to stigmatise the continued, almost traditional use of the thousand-pronge decree at the end of the year, which today, as in tradition, ends with a vote of confidence. It is in fact the most serious spy of the general inefficiency of the apparatus of the State and the Government and sometimes responds, more properly, to a precise will of the Government to disapply some norms or not to want to face some problems in a structural way. Unfortunately, the thousandprorogues decree also becomes the instrument through which many lobbyists practice to be satisfied, using both the extension and the non-extendance. The government's inability to deal with certain problems in a structural way is clear about the long-standing affair of the precarious public administration. We are very pleased that rules have been introduced concerning the recruitment of the 887 personnel of the prison police, the Higher Institute of Health and ISTAT, which, among other things, cost us a lot of effort and effort. Unfortunately, a number of other problems remain intact and it is very serious that, while on the one hand we approve laws prohibiting the use of fixed-term recruitment, within the public service we continue to repeat precarious contracts from year to year, without addressing the issue in a structural way. We are also very sorry that the amendments we have tabled on all matters relating to the world of school and university have not been accepted, because even then we are faced with a number of very serious problems. Mr President, within this measure, a number of issues have also emerged which have not been addressed in a structural way and which denote the idea of the Government that, thanks to the magic wand of liberalism and the free market, an innovative response can be offered to the country. I am referring, for example, to the Bolkestein directive. We have always contested and warned that in the transposition we should have been very careful to adapt it to the situations of our country. This time, too, we were faced with an intervention on the issue of street trade, which needed a real extension, in order to be able to deal seriously - and we still hope that this can be done - with the fact that, in our view, a number of areas such as this should be excluded from the application of the directive. The intervention contained within the decree milleproroghe obviously does not meet this requirement. In fact, on the one hand there is an extension and on the other there is a zealous reaffirmation of the application of the directive itself. Let me also say, Mr President, that we find the extension approved in the Commission very serious for a further two years compared to the deadline set by the Government, that is to say until 2020, of the entry into force of the ban on animal testing for xenotraplants and substances from abuse; among other things, there have been very unpleasant interventions from this point of view. Yesterday, in this House, we heard speeches echoing in war tones, from a crusade, of an incredible fundamentalism, that all those who raise very serious questions, not from an ethical but also a scientific point of view, are almost opposed to research. I have to say that sentences have also been used which unfortunately also qualify the people who have spoken them and which I find very serious. In this regard, I would just like to say that these are the same words that we have heard echoing for 25 years in our country by those who opposed the ban on the testing of cosmetics on animals; a ban that came into force at European level, which showed that substitute tests are very important for research itself; they are the same forces that did not involve Italy in the numerous Community calls for the allocation of economic resources for the development of alternative methods to vivisection, contributing once again to the escape abroad of Italian researchers, blocked by the dogma of animal experimentation. In all these years, together with numerous scientists, epidemiologists, researchers of public universities (from those of Pisa to those of the Wisdom of Rome), we have desperately asked for research to be able to invest in alternative methods, to make a leap forward for the good not only of other living beings, of other species, but also of the human species. It is therefore not just an ethical issue, although I believe that research must have a foundation and a social and ethical responsibility. I believe that investment in alternative methods would allow our country and all the research to take a big step forward. Mr President, in addition to that, there are also a number of other reasons that we could list: I am thinking of a series of serial extensions, which now reproduce from year to year and which are now very serious. I would just like to stigmatize what once again extends the deadline for the adaptation of all fire-fighting systems - which I find very serious - within kindergartens and I could still list a number of extensions which we consider to be very serious. For all these reasons, the Senators of the Italian Left will not vote for trust and will vote firmly against this measure. Finally, I add only the affair concerning the taxi drivers we are all dealing with. Mr President, not only must we take this matter seriously, but we must also end it once and for all with the illusion that liberalism and the free market can give our country a perspective; it is not so, we are filling ourselves with operators who do not pay taxes in this country, but perhaps in other states, and if we continue in this way we really risk having further problems for families and for the many workers. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u60	MANCUSO (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Mr President, despite the fact that the thousand-pronged measure is historically an element of fragility or weakness in the political system, I believe that in some cases it is essential to give continuity, efficiency and effectiveness to administrative action. As in this case, I must say that the measure was hesitated thanks to the meticulous and punctual work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs directed by Vice President Torrisi, with the commitment of the rapporteur Collina, in the presence of the undersecretaries Pizzetti and De Micheli; this allowed to bring to the Chamber a measure that brings with it all those extensions that are absolutely necessary and indispensable for a good continuation of the administrative action of the State. I have to say that the criteria adopted, which are absolutely strict, have enabled us to make an important selection of the amending proposals, which - as we know - were more than 1,200 and have been reduced by 60%, precisely because the criterion of absolute relevance and compliance with the actual need to introduce transitional or extension regimes has been absolutely respected. It is precisely for this reason that the temptation to introduce measures which could call for financial aid was avoided, or even an omnibus measure. Some measures of the milleproroghe, such as those on the Provinces, the prison police force, the ISTAT precarious, the education, the earthquake, are considered unanimously useful. Of course, there are still some dark points in the provision that need to be clarified. I am referring to the issue of streetwalkers and the Bolkestein directive. It is unfair, Mr President, that the burden of such an important decision should be shifted from the Government to the parliamentary committees and assemblies. I hope that, on the occasion of the next millennium, if this Government is still in office, we will not continue to talk about these issues, because a decision must necessarily be taken, even if it is unpopular, in order not to find ourselves faced with the fact that we continue to feed the so-called localistic privileges and not to respond to the need that comes from a global market. On this point we must understand and be sure to be determined, and this is primarily the responsibility of the Government. There is another problem, which has been dealt with in an amendment of mine which has been turned into an agenda, which the government will have to deal with. It is the problem of former doctors who have been treated as health officials and are entitled to collect those refunds that have been denied so far. I have heard that the Undersecretary De Micheli has acted in this direction and I am confident that, since the next thousand years, there will be no such problems. There is a need, Mr President, to accept - on the one hand - this type of measure and - on the other hand - also to give continuity and certainty to the law of law and order, without falling under the temptation of a financial law bis. The People's Area Group will clearly vote in favour of the measure, in order to continue the work of reforming our system, aimed at strengthening the criteria of effectiveness, rationalization and transparency of the action of the public administration, in the hope and hope that in future the need to resort to the measures of extension deadlines will be reduced to a minimum. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u63	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I am sorry that there is very little time because, as a thousand-pronged measure, we would need a lot of time to discuss it. The measure under consideration is precisely the mirror of Italy: a thousand extensions that are a sanatorium for the inefficiency and ineffectiveness of the administration, in particular of the successive governments, left and right. It is a reversal of order: Parliament makes laws and the government simply does not apply them and, from year to year, Parliament is forced to extend the time for their application and so happens - for example - what we are witnessing today, namely the protests taking place outside this building. After months of legislative fasting, caused by the Parliament hostage of Renzi's whims, this measure has been attacked by diligence and the legislative bulimia has unleashed, with a whole series of amendments. It is a real assault on the diligence that has transformed this thousandprorogues into an elephantic measure. The extension of the legislative deadlines - it is important to say - does not do justice to citizens when they do not have the certainty of law enforcement. There are categories of citizens who now have the certainty that they can avoid applying the laws because there will be an extension. So, when you make a law - for example - to force the municipalities and privates to put the kindergartens in place according to the fire regulations, or when you make a norm to oblige the hoteliers to put their structures to fire regulations, they know that that norm will be postponed, that that obligation will be postponed and will not provide even this time because they know that a thousandprorogues will come that will prolong the terms once again, and this maybe on the skin of our children. Once again it was planned to postpone the deposit of party statements, a further extension to avoid that fine of 200,000 euros that someone had drawn thinking of applying it to us. Too bad that we are in order, we were and we continue to be, unlike someone else, and today this rule turns against you and you have to extend its terms once again. I would also like to point out a particular aspect that has escaped from the general marasma of the rules that intervene and create a social discomfort such as that which we are witnessing today with the protests of taxi drivers and streetwalkers. The rules for the containment of expenses - the spending review to understand us - do not apply to the company Expo; rules that intervene today and do not extend something that was already there: it simply says that the rules of 2009 to the company Expo should not be applied. The rules for the containment of expenses for consultancy of all kinds, for expertise and whatever else should not be applied to Expo. What's behind it? Perhaps something related to the investigations they are doing about Expo and its commissioner Sala, today mayor of Milan? Perhaps we want to remedy by law something that the judiciary had seen and that was in breach of current legislation? We'll see about that in the next few days. We will see it gradually, when the cards come out, but of course we do not talk about this, we talk about something else. Then there are extensions that are actually extensions of armchairs. We have the extension of the COCERs, the Carabinieri's unions, waiting to reorder the trade union representation. It is as if we were saying that, since the electoral law is incardinated, Parliament can be extended sine die until the electoral law itself is passed. That's the concept. I also recall the extension of the National Council of the Order of Journalists, the extension of the Council of the National Register of Drivers: a whole series of extensions to ensure the continuation of some armchairs. Then we have some devastating rules, such as, for example, those relating to animal testing in some areas. A law proposed by this majority in August 2013 provided that certain types of animal testing should be discontinued by 2017. Well, it's 2017, it's been four years, and today the rule is being extended for another three years. There was four years to adapt and today someone tells us that trials and research need five years, a five-year period. Too bad, though, that we knew it from before! But when you approved that rule you needed to make populism and had to meet the needs of the animalists. You then made the populist norm, aware that you would extend it so much. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Or you do it now: you even wanted to extend it to 2022 and you extended it to 2020, and it's fair to know. We do not talk about the rule on magistrates, which called for the suspension of the misuse of the law on the retirement age of magistrates that intervenes on an independent body. Parliament, acting every time on the age of judges, manipulates appointments, perhaps by depriving a magistrate of the right to participate in one of the appointments at the head of the office, or by preventing extensions. With the non-suspension, which you rejected in the Commission, we will have the Naples Public Prosecutor and a series of offices in difficulty, with the same national anti-Mafia Prosecutor who, as you know, needs two cycles, at least two periods, in order to be able to carry out his work fully. Well, the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor, thanks to the rules issued by this Government, will complete its first cycle and cannot be extended, as happened to all its predecessors, to complete the coordination activity. Finally, there is the rule on taxis, sneaked in by my colleague Lanzillotta, which provides for the extension of the suspension of effectiveness, which was not actually suspended, because the suspension has been effective for seven years. One cannot extend something that is actually not there; one should have written "reipensione" or "new suspension" or "no," but it is written: "prorogation of suspension of effectiveness" with consequences that can also be determined in the judicial sphere. I would remind you that judicial proceedings are under way against some NCCs who have violated the rules in force over the past seven years and that, thanks to this measure, they could now appeal, because of course the rule in favour must be applied. I shall conclude, Mr President, with that unholy choice of not extending the application of the Bolkestein directive to streetwalkers. We are the only country, together with Spain, to have included streetwalkers in the Bolkestein directive. We are the only country in which large multinational companies from abroad can intervene and participate in our calls, to the detriment of Italian streetwalkers, who are a very important reality. And, instead, our operators will not be able to go to France, Germany or Spain, because in those countries there are no bans. [[Comments of Senator Marino Luigi]] For these regions, we shall be voting against the confidence placed on this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u66	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin my explanation of vote with the state of mind that I had the opportunity to live last night. And I want to express it through a short verse of a well-known poem, which reads as follows: The air is dark, the sky is mute!... And I on the silent Veron sitting, In solitaria melancholy, I look at you, and tears, my Italy! ==References====External links==* Official website In this way he wrote Fusinato, a young volunteer in defense of the Venetian Republic that today I imagine, transferring it - only in temporal terms but not in current times - to a country that is experiencing an extremely difficult time. I have seen these days manifest first the streetwalkers and then the taxi drivers. These are things that hurt a country that has been dragging behind them for too long and is the taillight of the 28 countries of the European Union. We are only close to Greece and Finland, and we are at a rate of growth that is horrifying when compared to that of Romania, which is 4.4%. A situation that leaves us appalled, Mr President. I will read the speech on this milleproroghe, because in fact I want to represent also what my Group and its members wish to highlight on this occasion. Once again a vote of confidence that reflects the difficulties of this majority and that prevents a confrontation and deepening that this measure would have absolutely need. This text is so heterogeneous that it covers almost all the areas in which the Democratic Party's Executive has intervened over the last three years, without clearly resolving any pending aspect. The most obvious example is the part concerning public administration, where the long series of extensions proposed is to show how much the Government has failed all the policy objectives that it itself had set itself. We continue to navigate on sight, between rejections of legitimacy and ineffective measures. The result is that, only for the part concerning the public administration, there are 15 extensions. From the rankings of the public competitions approved on the date of Decree No 101 of 2013 to the competitions banned by the prison administration, from fixed-term employment contracts of the Province staff to the recruitment of the first-class managers - while the reform Madia was rejected by the Consulta on this point - until the postponement of the deadline for the use of municipal secretaries (another controversial point of the reform). Then there is the extension of the terms for recruitment in the security-defense sector, fire department and other public administrations, such as the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, where we would have expected in recent months an administrative acceleration that instead, despite the announcements, has not been. In short, the regulatory uncertainty that follows the so-called reform Madia will reverberate on this measure through a series of extensions that also concern Regions, Provinces and local authorities. Not to mention the practical effects of education policies. Self-promotional slogans, "beautiful schools" and "good schools" remain, but behind the appearance and propaganda there are only unresolved problems, if not even exacerbated. In fact, we think about the lack of professors, the cover-up of roles and supplements, the precarious ones, that have been waiting for many years and are seen overcome by people without titles and roles in order to be able to aspire to places that would be theirs. This had never happened before. We have witnessed, over the last year, real collapses or collapses of structural parts of school buildings. Not to mention the competences left to the Provinces, to which all the resources have been removed, or the many institutions that during the past few weeks have remained closed, as they lack adequate heating systems. So we are only going to postpone the implementation of the buildings again until 31 December: an extension of the extension, while no concrete action has been taken to allow the use of funds for the safety of school buildings. We are not talking about the roads, of which the Provinces, due to lack of funds, are also struggling to maintain the ordinary maintenance. We must take note of the fact that once again proposals, measures, reforms are approved and then we never reach the end of their process, because in reality there is no administrative capacity and an organic and systemic vision of the sectors involved. From this point of view, how can we fail to assess with absolute opposition the errors made in the field of justice, starting from the mess about the retirement age of the magistrates? We were concerned to put the heads of the management offices at early retirement, without taking into account the timing for the inclusion of the winners of the new competitions: a problem to which Forza Italia had already tried to give a solution in the budget law, in line with what all the operators of justice asked. Here again, through some qualifying amendments, solutions of absolute common sense have been presented by the Senators of Forza Italia, but they have clashed with what seems to be a real position imposed from above. In this case, we must speak, therefore, of self-imposed failure by the same will of the Government. There is also the failure of the reform of publishing, considering that the traceability of sales, returns of newspapers and periodicals and facilitations for the shipping of publishing products is extended. There is the failure of the governance of the major events and, therefore, we are witnessing the operating "codes" of both the special operational unit of Expo 2015, and the agency for the performance of the Olympic Games of Turin 2006. There is the failure of the so flagrant territorial areas and, therefore, the deadline for the exercise in associated form of the fundamental functions of the small municipalities, which should have been defined by December 2014. He's been talking about it for a long time for nothing. Apparently an extension is not denied to anyone and - as they say - not even to the butler: one goes from the reform of the structure of the tariff components of the general charges of the electric system, to the obligation to install a counter for the consumption of heating, from the management extracted of the accounts of the Forest Body of the State after the confluence in the Arm of the Carabinieri - there was the total dismantling of a body that was the pride of our Country and that today without competence is to assume roles of which neither the formation and the history belongs to it - to the management commissioner in the earthquakeed municipalities of the years 1980-81 in the Regions Campania, Basilicata, Puglia and Calabria. Over 35 years were obviously not enough. I am obliged to stress the post-an earthquake initiatives also on the good things that have been included as an improvement on the original text. We all know - and the dramatic events of these months remind us daily - how necessary prevention activities are, especially in the many seismic risk areas of the peninsula. This is an absolute priority - a concept which the Government recently reiterated in this Assembly - which can only start from public buildings and, in particular, from school structures. This priority also directly calls into question the municipalities and local authorities, even when they do not have the necessary resources in their budgets. And so, from this very point of view, I am pleased to be able to signal a small but significant message of common sense that through the work done in the Commission we can send to the local territories and administrators. I would particularly like to thank Mrs Bernini for the work and results she has produced together. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] I would also like to thank other colleagues in the majority who are sitting on these benches. We have tabled several amendments to postpone the mortgages of municipalities in areas affected by the 2012 earthquake (Emilia-Romagna, Veneto and Lombardy) that they must support for previous public works, because the problem continues to exist. Having given those municipalities more room for manoeuvre means, in practice, having resources for checks, controls, adjustments, social services, activities and whatever else is fundamental for the municipalities. It is a requirement that the Government and the majority have shared and that puts us in a position to favor the prevention that so much is spoken of immediately after the events, but that in time is always in danger of becoming forgotten.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u67	Senator, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u68	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). For one thing, however, there are too many that we do not agree with: the waste emergency in Campania is being extended and, only at the last moment, we remember that the unemployment benefit for employees expired on 31 December and, therefore, we put another piece. In short, we make an authentic "minestrone" made in Italy, which unfortunately does not honor us when this brand becomes an example of quality for the world. The quality in the milleproroghe does not exist: indeed, it is shown how far this country is from being reformed and is completely harnessed. I also want to quote the problem of banks quickly. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish, having passed the eleven minutes. AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). There are the issues of the Bolkestein directive and the walking trade. Is it possible that an individual with a bench is forced to observe bans? Mr President, give me another minute, and I ask you to allow me to deliver the text of my speech. Where did we get to? Honest taxi drivers live a difficult time with their private family businesses and, if they go wrong, they don't ask anyone for anything. Instead of putting them in trouble, we have to help them. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This is the core of our society and our economy.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u69	The Presidency shall authorise it to deliver the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u70	AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). I shall conclude, Mr President, by voting absolutely against this thousand-pronge. I started with the verse of a poem and I want to conclude with the same author, when he says: "The disease rages... The bread we miss... On the bridge waves White Flag! [[Brusio.]] President, the country can't do it anymore. We must give prompt and immediate answers to this crisis situation. There's no more time to wait. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Many congratulations]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u71	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers, the students and the students of the Technical Institute of Industry of Avellino's Guido Dorso, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u74	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote for this measure. It will do so with that sense of responsibility which has always guided it, which prevents the logic of voting attitudes and orientations from passing positions conditioned by the present circumstances and by political exploitations that have nothing to do with the general interest. To say that milleproroghe is an unconstitutional measure means not taking into account a parliamentary practice or a guideline that the Constitutional Court has never expressed as regards the unconstitutionality of the measure or a requirement that all governments - I believe more or less from 1948 onwards - have had to satisfy with this type of measure. The second consideration is that this is proof of the failure of a government and a public administration. Again, then, all the governments that have been there since 1948 to date have failed, because the thousandprorogues have made them exactly all the governments. And where were you? Why did you vote against the reform of the public administration if the milleproroghe is caused by its crisis? You didn't want to cooperate with that either, because yours is the policy of nothingness, noness and opposition at all costs, as if this were in the interest of the country. [[Applause.]] You're joking with the country's interest. There may be something that does not satisfy the measures, but I would like to remind you, first of all, of what has been done in positive terms by moving forward with a thousandpronges. There are measures on the revaluation of pensions; there are measures that facilitate the return of the brains and that extend the university ratings to allow those who have obtained one to have an aspiration of chair that the financial contingency does not allow immediately; there are measures for the symphonic foundations, for the tourist districts, for the earthquakes of Emilia and Abruzzo, with measures, the most varied, for the floods of Olbia, Nuoro and Ogliastra; there are measures to fight evasion and assumptions, extensions of rankings and stabilisations, and the introduction for the first time, even until June 2017, of an unemployment allowance for co.co.co. Should we avoid making the provision? Or are these measures of civic and social significance and a focus on the rights and positions of people and groups in difficulty? I think this is it. From this point of view, perhaps the opposition to this measure also stems from the value of some of these measures, but I would like to add another subject to this whole debate. I have heard in this House, once again, political justiceism, which passes through the criminalisation of individuals, as happened with regard to Senator Lanzillotta and Senator Cociancich, co-signators of the amendment on taxis. I believe that, from this point of view, it must be clear that it is the majority that makes an amendment and is responsible for it. We take this responsibility, even if we are aware of the delicacy of the matter and I take this opportunity to add that Minister Delrio has informed our Parent Company that today, at 2:30 p.m., he will receive the representatives of taxi drivers to find a solution to this problem. The contested extension, moreover, is an extension which follows the main extension contained in the decree-law and which is related to the time within which the Minister of Transport, in agreement with the Minister of Economic Development and after agreement with the unified conference, must take measures to prevent practices of abuse of the taxi service and the rental service with driver. This is the meaning of the amendment, this is the scope of the subsequent measure of the other amendment, but the subject is on the Minister's table and we believe that the Minister will find a balanced solution to the problem and will implement a law that dates back to 2009. In this regard, I would also like to draw attention to the consistency with the choices made when one was in the government and when one was in the majority. The colleagues of the Forza Italia Group are screaming against measures that have been wanted by their governments, and even this with the seriousness of politics and political positions has little to do with it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I have nothing to add to the question of animals, because Senator De Biasi spoke too well yesterday: it is a delicate question, of conscience, but it is a question on which politics unfortunately has to make decisions and we have taken them responsibly. I would just like to conclude by briefly mentioning the other open issue, that of streetwalkers. In this regard too, let us be precise and remember that, since 2012, the State-Regions and Municipalities Conference has resolved that these measures should be applied, which - like the others - have not been voted by a central-left government, starting from May 2017. We want to say that this forecast has, on the one hand, ensured that all concessions, even those already expired, remain in force until 31 December 2018 and on the other has saved the concessions that have a longer duration and has simply posed the problem, in the logic of the market, of competition, of the clarity and of the protection of the individual positions, of the implementation by the municipalities of those plans that must order the walking trade in their territory. It is therefore a measure which, in the logic of legality, does not harm but protects. On this measure too, however, there will be an area of dialogue and confrontation that has never been denied. That is why the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u76	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u77	CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I disagree with the statements made on behalf of the Democratic Party's parliamentary group by Senator Pagliari, starting from one of his statements: can there be anything that does not satisfy this provision? I fear, from my point of view, that there is very little that can satisfy us in this provision. What is most striking is the lack of common sense on the part of the Government and I will explain very few things on which attention should be focused. In the meantime, I would like to start with the usual stuttering on the matter of the extension of State concessions, with the now usual postponement to an organic discipline that should face the Bolkestein directive. I do not know how many years have passed since this directive, a flood of years, and every time we find a junction in which we have to deal with this issue, somehow we say that we will do an organic discipline that, however, we never do. I must also say that there is an absolute lack of common sense when one rejects, or takes no account of, an amendment to the first signature of Senator Granaiola, whom I have signed, which regulated the problem of the seafarers' certificate of navigation: a measure of common sense, which did not commit the Government in who knows what expenditure and which had to change the attitudes of a ministerial direction on guidelines made by an official who has pervicaciously fixed itself that a certain type of procedure must be pursued. The thing that saddens me most, Mr President - I am addressing you, but also my fellow senators - is the matter of detention in the service of the magistrates. I have tabled amendments 10.37 and 10.44 with the aim of keeping magistrates in service over the 72nd year of age, possibly up to 2020 or up to the level of staff. The Minister of Justice explained to us that he was opposed to this increase in detention in service... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would like to be quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u78	Yes, Senator Cuomo, but I remind you that you have three minutes to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u79	CUOMO (PD). I can't even hear myself. As far as the detention of magistrates is concerned, I thought and believe that there should be a line of consistency with the decisions we took not long ago with a decree-law concerning the detention of certain magistrates in order to ensure the efficiency of the judicial system. I am referring to the magistrates of the Supreme Court. We have extended the detention of those magistrates, believing that we had to ensure the efficiency of the judicial system. I consider that measure to be right and I demand it to be voted in favour. I find, however, surprising and serious the decision taken by the first Commission to reject the amendments tabled by me because of the two: by rejecting these amendments, we have established that the rule adopted to hold the judges of the Supreme Court in service is ad personam and, at the same time, in rejecting them, we are establishing that the measure under consideration takes the form of a contra-personal rule. For these reasons, Mr President, I did not consider speaking on Tuesday in the debate when Senator Crimi and other senators took part in a discussion which also concerned the Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I can testify that the Parent Company, Senator Zanda, with whom I honour having a relationship of friendship, never imagined, not even remotely, to condition my bond of mandate. On the contrary, we have dealt with the substance of the measures, each with its own idea, in the freedom which the Constitution assigns to every Member of Parliament. For these reasons, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think I can take part in this vote of confidence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u80	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,800 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 244 of 30 December 2016, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Monti is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Monti. PETRAGLIA, secretary, makes the appeal. Senators say yes: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amati, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre Battista, Bencini, Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bianconi, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Bubbico, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Capacchione, Cardinals, Chiavaroli, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Conte, Corsini, Cucca D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Ascoli, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Dirindin, D'Onghia Esposito Stefano Fabbri, Fasiolo, Fattorini, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Lolena, Filippin, Fincchiaro, Fornaro, Jacob, Ginetti, Ginetti, Gotor, Granaiola, Gualdani, Guerrietti, Fiera, Lavani, Fieri Lolti, Lolti, Ferrara, Ferrara, Lori Lori Lorio PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,800 (correct text), entirely replacing the sole article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 244 of 30 December 2016, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 254 Senators voting 252 Majority 127 Favorable 153 Contrars 99]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 244 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u81	The next item is the resolution on the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on draft law No 876. I would remind you that there is a debate on this request in which no more than one speaker will be able to speak for each parliamentary group and for no more than ten minutes. Senator Ciampolillo has the floor to illustrate the request.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u82	Mr President, the present draft law concerns the re-publicisation of the Apulian aqueduct. Water is a common good, the universal patrimony of humanity and the fundamental right of each human person. Not recognizing the right to water is tantamount to denying the right to life, as is the case in so many parts of the world, where selfishness and the interests of few obscure the dramatic reality of entire populations and of so many children living with completely insufficient water resources. Water is a public good which cannot be subject to the rules of the market, let alone be the subject of squalid speculations to the detriment of the health and well-being of the population. In this regard, Italian citizens also expressed their views, with the famous referendum of 12 and 13 June 2011. Many seem to have already forgotten. We must then move decisively from words to action. In this perspective, Acquedotto Apulia SpA is an emblematic example of the inability of politics to make courageous choices. The draft law in question aims to give public nature to the historical entity which, by managing a fundamental resource for the life and economy of an important part of the South of Italy, must necessarily direct its activity to logics outside profit. The hope is to actually work to guarantee every individual the right to public water. Therefore, the present draft law and the request for urgency must be framed in this respect. Well, the management of the Apulian Aqueduct SpA is now due to expire. The perspective drawn by the Apulian Council chaired by Michele Emiliano is that of putting the Apulian Aqueduct on the market, thus exposing to the risk of the entry of private entities that, directly or with private companies, or indirectly, with foreseeable acquisitions of public companies, would manage, with obviously lucrative purposes, the public good par excellence. We need to take urgent action to avoid this danger and send a clear signal to all those who think they can exploit the basic needs of people in order to become rich in the people's lives. Common goods must be of everyone's own and, therefore, must be public. The case of the Apulian Aqueduct has shown, moreover, how in Italy privatizations, far from being a tool of greater efficiency of the public administration, have been experienced as unmissable opportunities for the old policy of circumventing the legal obligations in the matter of recruitment of staff and management of public evidence procedures in everyday affairs. Privatisations have allowed the old policy to fill the institutions with wives, husbands, relatives and friends, without going through public competitions, and, at best, to ensure that directors and consultants earn substantial profits, which are not effectively controlled. The privilege of a few, the usual known, has been preferred to the right of all citizens to have common water. It's time to reverse course. It is necessary to prevent Emiliano and his Junta from allowing private individuals to enter into public water management. These fanciful prophets of truth must be prevented from continuing their plan to dismantle public affairs. The absolute inability to administer emerged in Puglia, as well as in many other regions managed by the old policy - I am referring to the same old policy that, daily, in the media, by deceiving the citizens, tries to appear like the new - cannot justify the abandonment of the public in favour of the private ones. The State cannot renounce its essential public function, which is to guarantee to all citizens the right to essential primary goods, including water. Well, despite the efforts and complaints of the 5 Star Movement Group in Puglia, of the friend Laricchia and of all the advisors, Emiliano, disavowing the public commitments repeatedly assumed for the opening of a technical table and, even more, betraying the will of the citizens expressed in the referendum of 2011, continues sent to do nothing to prevent the Apulian Aqueduct going into the hands of private entrepreneurs. For this reason, the draft law in question takes on an absolute urgency and, for these reasons, I have requested a prompt and immediate discussion of it. The bill can be an important passage for all those who believe and want, not only with words, that water is truly a good of all, especially of the weakest and most in need. It is time for the State to return to the service of its citizens, it is time for the water to become a permanent asset to all. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u85	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Mr President, I would like to express the opposition of the Democratic Party to this proposal, also in the light of the illustration that Mr Ciampolillo has just made, in which completely ultra-rone issues overlap. No one questions water as public law; another is the way in which an integrated water service is managed and yet more the way in which concessions are managed. In particular, mention is made of the Apulian Aqueduct, a public limited liability company of the Regione Puglia, owner of the concession for the integrated water service of that Region: a concession whose expiry date is 31 December 2018. Precisely in view of this deadline, from here to about a year and a half, in that Region there is a debate going on that sees protagonists, in particular, in addition to the social forces and local communities, the same institutions, starting from the Apulian Region, together with the municipalities and the Water Authority that follows the themes, precisely, of the supply and the same water service: a debate aimed at defining the mechanisms, the modalities and the very nature of the concession that will be from here to a year and a half subject of renewal, as well as the modalities - here I refer in particular to the debate that is taking place in the Apulian Region, regarding which the Democratic Party itself has made an explicit proposal - to maintain the public nature of the same management society, Aquedotto Pugliese, of which it can certainly not be imagined a re-transformation with ways now exceeded both by national and Community regulations. Here I refer in particular to Community legislation defining qualifications and integrated water service as a public service of economic interest. Among these proposals is to maintain the publicity of the concession manager, for example through the entry of the same municipalities into the social structure. There is a debate on these modalities, the nature of the concession and its governance. Therefore, also in the light of this debate, as well as because of a lack of merit with regard to the proposal made by my colleague Ciampolillo, but also and above all with regard to the ways in which the Apulian institutions and their communities are involved at this time, I believe that the debate must proceed in the coming weeks and months and certainly the time will come when a rule of law will probably also be necessary. For that time, however, we will be ready and we will have a proper debate. That is why the Democratic Party's vote today is against the proposal for urgent resolution on the draft law that we are talking about. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u86	I put to the vote the request for an urgent statement, pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure, on the draft law No 876, made by Senator Ciampolillo. It's not approved. PUGLIA (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u89	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). Mr President, the tragic suicide of the boy from Lavagna, who was found in possession of ten grams of hashish, imposes on all of us a reflection, as suggested yesterday also by Roberto Saviano, to which my sincere appreciation goes on the point. On the contrary, more than a reflection I intend to scream all my indignation at the shameful hypocrisy that reigns in this House and in the entire Italian society. I understand and respect the pain of the boy's relatives, but the question we have to ask ourselves is who is really responsible for this absurd death. In Parliament, even with the support of the Democratic Party, lies a bill by Senator Della Vedova on the legalization of the use of cannabis. Personally I have repeatedly denounced the fact that this bill would never have seen the approval and that it was only a typical hypocritical way to keep good the environments of the varied world of idlers and incapables that make up the party of Renzi, Boschi and singer company. Certainly their lords, today in the form of the Gentiloni Government, are much more attentive to the fates of banks and family bankrupts than to the real problems of our young people. But let's go back to our question: who really killed Lavagna's boyfriend? The cannabis or the ignorance and hypocrisy of those around us? I would like to recall one of the two fathers inspiring the law of shame and murder that today regulates the use of cannabis, namely Mr. Gianfranco Fini, known to the chronicles of these days for his alleged noble activity to the benefit of organized crime of slot machines. The current legislation is the emblematic example of a policy far from the true needs of young people, but only attentive, in the name of false principles, to please and serve the strong powers and lobbying of the great societies that control our country. After all, what can be expected of these politicians who talk about ethics and morality and then help criminals spread the habit of gambling or make laws that condemn savers and save ministers' relatives? Well, this political class has wanted to make believe that cannabis products were on the same level as drugs, such as heroin or cocaine; the latter, however, at least apparently, so expensive, as in the past emerged from the press, also to representatives of past governments and their usual evening companies. In doing so, thanks to dear Fini and Giovanardi and today to this Democratic Party, hypocritical and false, the children are searched at home, dragged into the police stations or in the commands of the Forces of Order and treated as criminals. Our children are so often forced to have illegal relations with organized crime, for a personal choice, namely the intake of cannabis, certainly not different from the intake of alcohol or tobacco; choice in other countries, no less civil than ours, widely allowed and therefore protected. No one in this Italy has the courage to really say that cannabis doesn't hurt, like alcohol and tobacco. Cannabis, however, does not produce any form of addiction, as is falsely said. Tobacco is legal, but the state itself tells us that tobacco kills. Cannabis has never killed anyone, it does not addictive yet it is illegal and, despite the statements of Minister Lorenzin, we sell it in pharmacy to treat thousands of even serious patients, such as those suffering from multiple sclerosis. I do not understand that tobacco is sold in the pharmacy for therapeutic purposes, even if the state asks us for a health card to buy cigarettes. And yet it is! This is Italy today. I challenge anyone to prove that there was only one victim directly linked to cannabis intake. No one has ever thought of banning tobacco in our country; indeed, the State, as everyone knows, makes tobacco a source of absolute income. The same could be true of alcohol. However, no one has the courage to take a coherent position on this. Lavagna's boy is today treated by everyone as a weak, addict. I do not know his story and respect the pain of his relatives, to whom all my sorrow goes. I fear, however, that Lavagna's boy deserves at least today that respect which the ignorance and hypocrisy of this society evidently did not give him. I am sure that if in Italy it was lawful and allowed everyone to cultivate for personal use four cannabis plants - as I proposed with a bill that lies unheard here in the Senate - this tragedy, like many others, would never have happened and today that boy would still be among us to dream of his own future.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u92	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, unfortunately, every year 500 young people commit suicide: this is the second cause of death, a sign of a fragility of the youth situation in Italy, which, in many respects, certainly must worry and worry us all. In this context, I point out the heartbreaking, intense, dramatic, moving intervention of this boy's adoptive mother, whom I have proposed is spread in schools because it is proof of the dignity of a woman in the face of the tragedy that has involved her, which is then that of many parents. This morning I saw others of these parents on some television shows: one, for example, whose son died from an ecstasy pill... CIAMPOLILLO (M5S). Ecstasy is a heavy drug! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ciampolillo, you have already spoken: you have no right to speak. Please, Senator Giovanardi, continue. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). I am simply explaining that those other parents affected by this tragedy have, with courage and determination, turned to schools to explain to young people how the approach to all kinds of drugs involves dramatic problems. I have visited dozens of recovery communities, some of which specialize in children between the ages of fifteen and eighteen, who are already irremediably marked by drugs, beginning with cannabis, and desperately try to get out of it. We all know, in fact, that from thirteen to eighteen years the active ingredients of cannabis cause irreversible damage to the brain. These are absolutely proven and demonstrable scientific data. Moreover, in all proposals for legalization - it should be said in Saviano - minors are excluded. It is clear that even if the smoking rooms were to be reached, minors would be totally exempted. Here comes a great educational problem and a great theme of solidarity with that mother or father. Woe if we were to criminalize the mother, the father or the Finance Guard because those desperate parents also tried that way to stop a trial that would lead to enormous inconvenience to their son. President, I therefore believe that today we must mourn this tragedy, but above all pay tribute to that mother's educational words with respect to that child and really create an alliance between schools, parents, society and educational agencies, so that that mother's appeal does not remain unheard of.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u95	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I rise to speak about the fire department. This morning they were present in thousands in Montecitorio where there was a solemn demonstration. They came to Rome, despite the fact that 70 million euros were allocated to the sector (which should make us ask questions); however, the rights of the staff of this body are not recognized. In fact, the millions allocated will not even be entirely allocated to those who work in concrete for emergencies of all kinds. The fire department intervenes continuously in the emergencies of this country and in the TV lounges and on the news all this is recognized; instead, it continues to ignore their rights. They call for their remuneration to be adjusted to other police forces. Last Saturday, Mr President, there was also a report on "Strip the news," which highlighted and illustrated the treatment that politics is giving to the precarious of the firefighters. This is a very important issue and Parliamentary assemblies cannot continue to underestimate it. A government that continuously uses their dedication and professionalism, which was also recognized by colleagues a few days ago when we dealt with the provision on civil protection; a government that recognizes that in emergencies it serves this security body, cannot continue to ignore the respect of a right. In this regard I have presented a draft law on this matter and I believe it is necessary to recognize the professionalism and the sacrifices that every day the firefighters put in place. I hope that these issues will soon be dealt with in our classrooms (not just the salvation of banks or anything else). I also hope that we will soon be discussing these draft laws.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u98	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I have asked to speak, albeit with the Chamber now empty, because I have listened to Senator Ciampolillo's speech and to Senator Giovanardi's reply, who unfortunately left the Chamber. I would just like to make a request to the record that what Senator Giovanardi said, namely that the use of cannabis should cause direct damage, should be scientifically proven. So I would like to invite my colleague Giovanardi to produce the scientific documentation that proves it, because in his speech we noticed some confusion when he spoke about ecstasy and the attendances he makes of recovery centers. It does not appear to us, and it does not appear to those who are professionally involved in the matter of notorious drug dependence, that there are people who are hospitalized or who are being treated for the consumption of cannabis alone. I wanted to leave a trace of this intervention of mine, so Senator Giovanardi will read it and maybe give satisfaction to this curiosity.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u99	I say that the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups is convened on Tuesday 21 February, at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u100	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-764.ana.u101	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 21 February, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.54 p.m.
