ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 1 June. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on motions 1-00744 (text 2), tabled by Senator Formigoni and other Senators, 1-00760, tabled by Senator Campanella and other Senators, 1-00761, tabled by Senator Candiani and other Senators, 1-00763, presented by Senator Amidei and other Senators, 1-00765, presented by Senator Stefano and other Senators, 1-00767, presented by Senator Donno and other Senators, and 1-00770, presented by Senator Barani and other Senators, on the reform of the common agricultural policy. I would remind you that the motions were presented in the afternoon sitting and the debate took place. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u5	Mr President, I steal a few moments from my colleagues to make some general comments, after which I will immediately give the opinion on the motions, so I also ask for some attention, so that the proposers can listen and evaluate the few rewordings I will ask for in relation to the texts presented. First of all, I would like to stress that the Community's agricultural policy is a cornerstone of our country's agricultural policy and that of the whole continent and is fundamental to guiding the processes of consolidation and development of the primary sector. I would also like to stress how important the changes that have been made to the CAP itself over time have been. Certainly not all these changes have gone in the direction desired by our country, but certainly in the years have been introduced particularly important elements that have allowed to make the CAP more and more suitable to the demands coming from Community policy: I refer, in particular, to the aspect of the sustainability of our agriculture. Today the CAP is aimed at sustainability primarily of an economic and social nature, that is, to allow our agricultural enterprises to maintain and develop in the territory, which is also crucial for the preservation of European territory. It is also aimed at the sustainability of businesses, also aimed at expanding production and in the vocation of the Community's agricultural policy, this has always been aimed at making our Europe more and more self-sufficient. On the other hand, in recent years in a more decisive way and in the last programming in a central way the theme of environmental sustainability has been placed: to allow therefore a greater production and profitability, but at the same time also to guarantee the possibility of having a natural environment for which agriculture becomes not an element of exploitation, but of housing and development of the territory itself. In this logic I accept many of the comments made during the illustration of motions and in this morning's debate. In this process we need to further strengthen the strategic choices of the common agricultural policy and the CAP, as has been pointed out, will increasingly have to be able to respond to diversified needs for different territories and also to give high-quality objectives to our agriculture. If the CAP was born for quantitative growth, it must now be developed for the qualitative growth of agriculture and this is a fundamental turning point in relation to our system. In this logic and in this perspective, as a Government, we welcome most of the requests made by the Senate Chamber today and make them ours; of course, in the coming weeks and months I assure you of a personal commitment by Minister Martina (a commitment already made and expressed, but which will manifest itself and develop even more in the coming weeks), in order to make clear also in Europe what the Italian position is, what are the demands that we make and how much we care that we go more and more to make clear political choices in the division of resources. In this respect, I believe it is important to stress here that the resources are not solidarity funds to a critical sector, but they are appropriations that in all countries of the world give themselves to agriculture for the role it plays not only from the productive point of view, but also conservative and development of the territory itself. In this sense we want to maintain it and strengthen it, and we want it to be increasingly unifying in our Europe. The common agricultural policy is a fundamental part of Europe, as the British are aware in these weeks when they are seriously beginning to reflect on the consequences of Brexit, and without a common agricultural policy it would be very difficult for everyone to proceed to have real opportunities for development. Having said that, and again reaffirming the willingness to accept the comments made, I shall immediately state the opinions in relation to the motions submitted. On motion No 744 (text 2), at the first signature of Senator Formigoni, I voted in favour. On motion No 760 of which Senator Campanella is the first signatory, the opinion is in favour provided that certain amendments are made. I would therefore ask you to consider the following rewordings: in point 2 of the device you are asked to replace the words: "in order to ensure that the following are the following: "in order to give preference to "." It is requested that point 3 be replaced entirely by the following words: "to encourage measures aimed at shortening supply chain relations and promoting direct contact between farmers and consumers." In point 6 of the device, which starts with the words: "to raise the quality of the instruments" we propose to replace in the last line the words: "and inter-branch collaboration" with the following: "and inter-branch organisations." In point 10 of the proposal, which is also the last one, we propose the following rewording: "to continue the work of simplifying bureaucracy for farmers, including by fully implementing the reforms of the national agencies". With regard to motion No 761, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators, I am in favour, provided that in the circumstances the following part of the term 'post 2020' is expunged in the fourth paragraph, which reads:'seeing in an incisive way a common agricultural policy which is no longer in step with the times and therefore requires a significant sign of discontinuity with regard to the approach taken so far'. We therefore call for this part of the premises to be expunged, whereas for the part of the provisions the opinion is in favour. With regard to motion No 763, tabled by Senator Amidei and other senators and presented this morning by Senator D'Alì, the opinion is in favour. For the next motion No. 765, tabled by Senator Stefano and other senators, the opinion is in favour, provided that some rewordings are accepted that I indicate: to expunge in the premises the words from: They are considered "active by definition" all those who receive less than 5,000 euros of direct payments (even if they are on the blacklist). I would also like to express my favourable opinion on all commitments with the exception of the one contained in point 11) which I request to be reworded as follows: expunge the last part, from the words "previsioning" up to " et similia" and replace it with the words: "considering the possibility of introducing an ethical mark for virtuous companies." I move on to motion 767, to the first signature of Senator Donno. The opinion is in favour of the whole of the first part, with the exception of the words: "family farming of small producers" up to: "production activity" which is called for to expunge as there is specific, albeit limited, support for small farmers. In particular, in the context of direct payments, Italy has adopted the scheme for small farmers pursuant to Article 6 et seq. of Community Regulation No 1307 of 2013. With regard to the mechanism, we propose to replace the words: "it commits the Government to take initiatives in European negotiations" with the following: "it commits the Government to assess the possibility of taking initiatives in European negotiations." On the other points of the operative part, the opinion is in favour, with the following exceptions: with reference to point 5), I propose that the word "mandatory" be expunged; on point 6, the opinion is opposed because the choice has already been made (the motion has not been tabled today and therefore some things have already been done); on point 7), I propose to replace the word "professional" with the words: "producer", on point 9) the opinion is contrary, as it is not possible to change the coupled aid further; finally, on point 10) the opinion is in favour provided that the words: "synrgical and agro-ecological" are expunged. As regards motion No 770, at the first signature of Senator Barani, the opinion is in favour with the exception of point (1) of the operative part, as these are national choices already adopted within the time limit, the last of which expired on 1 August 2016. Again, the motion is affected by the fact that it was tabled a long time ago. For the rest, I reiterate my support for the remaining commitments that the Government is being asked to make.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u6	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the German Bundesrat delegation on a study visit to the Senate, which is attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u7	Senator Campanella, do you accept the proposed rewording of motion 760? Campanella (Art.1-MDP). Yes, Mr President, I welcome you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Candiani, do you accept the proposed rewording of motion 761?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u8	Mr President, the intention is to accept the proposal for reformulation, which, moreover, acts on an essentially political part. However, I ask the government to make a serious commitment. Once the commitment has been made, it must be implemented. I would remind the Deputy Minister of which I always appreciate the work and the presence, unlike the Minister, that in the Committee on Agriculture and Food Production we have adopted a resolution on the agriculture of the foothills, which, despite being unanimously approved, is still a dead letter. We would not like to be available and then find ourselves with yet another approved motion which remains a dead letter. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] However, I welcome the proposed reformulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u9	Senator Stefano, do you accept the proposed rewording of motion 765? STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Donno, do you accept the proposed rewording of motion 767?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u10	Mr President, I would like to ask the Deputy Minister to reconsider his request to step up commitment No 9. I would like to ask whether it is possible to reformulate it by providing for the possibility of increases in the national ceiling and also for a specific premium for bovine animals and buffalo animals for which the administration of a GMO feed is demonstrated. That is to say, it is a forecast of intentions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u11	Deputy Minister Olivero, what is your orientation?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u12	Mr President, the problem is that it is not possible, under European rules, to further increase the coupled payment. Therefore, it is precisely the arrangement of the commitment that cannot be accepted. We understand the need to find additional resources in relation to cape goat and sheep and a specific premium for the rest, but unfortunately it cannot be accepted, because the premise from which resources are derived cannot be accepted. That's the thing. So I would not know how to reformulate the motion in such a way as to represent in some way a realistic commitment and I do not think that you only care about a declamatory issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u13	I do indeed share the issue that remains at European level. I thought, however, that the Italian Government could be a bearer of direct interest and therefore also a bearer of collective interest with regard to the goat and sheep chain, trying to put pressure on Europe for a favourable condition for the sector. That was the rewording I was asking for.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u14	At this point we can radically change the plant and say, precisely, that the Government is committed to providing for the possibility of applying, at European level, specific prizes to capers, bovine and buffalo, and so on as indicated in the commitment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u15	Is this it, Senator Donno? WOMAN (M5S). Yes, that was exactly what I asked for, thank you very much. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I ask the presenters of motion No. 770 if they accept the rewording proposed by the Government. COMPAGNONE (ALA-SCLP). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u18	DI GIACOMO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, we are dealing with the financing of the common agricultural policy, a problem of increasing importance and topicality, in order to meet the needs of 500 million citizens of the Union. Unfortunately, the CAP, which should have ensured a stable and certain food supply, possibly at affordable prices for the final consumer, as well as ensuring a decent standard of living for farmers, because of the cumbersomeness of processes and excessive bureaucracy, remains still one of the least productive European policies, especially for the important rural economy of our country. At the historic moment when our country's agricultural and food excellence is at the centre of the attention of operators throughout Europe, the European Union has a duty to streamline processes and aim quickly and well at quality, traceability and food safety, as well as animal welfare, environmental protection and sustainability. We therefore reiterate that, four years after the 2013 reform, the European elephant machinery, of which the common agricultural policy is one of the pillars, needs to take account of the specific nature of the agro-food sector in the individual countries, in order to ensure the necessary flexibility for the 27 to enable them to adapt some of the available instruments. A mention in this sense deserves precisely the Italian position, with the improcrastinable need to implement policies to defend the excellence of our country in the field of agricultural productions. Labels now in common use, such as PGI, DOC, DOCG, as well as the consortium system, have not always been able to protect and enhance our products in the European and global field. It is often their complexity, not to mention the constraints and controls, which operators themselves regard as excessive, to confuse and delay the use of the development instruments made available by the common agricultural policy. It is the slow delivery of spending funds that discourages many and leads to underutilization of resources, which our country exploits to date only to the ridiculous extent of 4% compared to the actual availability. Among other things, we are not the only ones in Europe to detect these difficulties, which are the daughters of the slowness of the European machine. The overwhelming victory that the Leave has seen in the United Kingdom's campaigns, during the English referendum on Brexit, says a lot about the inadequacy of the Community's agricultural policy in recent years. Therefore, the process under reform of the CAP must find Italy more prompt and incisive in the defense of its own excellences, of its own niche productions, of Italian specificity, in the care of agricultural and wine productions, respecting the nature of the environment, organic and biodynamic, which represent the real competitive advantage of our country, both vis-à-vis other Community countries, France and Spain in particular, and those outside the EU, such as Tunisia and Morocco. Another topic in which we ask for a greater commitment of the Italian Government, in the context of the motions that we are here today to discuss, is that of the caporalate, a phenomenon that depresses the work and the condition of life in most of southern Italy, but also in the regions of the North. An intervention, like those proposed so far by the Government, that is not able to deal with this hateful phenomenon with determination, however, risks representing a new missed opportunity: the umpteenth. Criminalizing the phenomenon in an aspecific and generalized way, in addition to not solving the problem, risks damaging also customs and traditions typical of certain territories and some crops. Situations, the latter, should be distinguished from labour trafficking, which often forms one of the businesses of organised crime. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, to respect the rules, avoiding the raising of bureaucracy and harassment, to meet the needs of producers and workers and to facilitate their daily lives, in these cases it is the first weapon of fight against the mafias, which in general confusion risk taking and maintaining control over the work of the sector we are talking about. In the agricultural sector too, solutions need to be introduced to help identify transparent regulation of the first regulated relationship with vouchers, or we will have to give up the use of undeclared work. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Federation of Freedoms Parliamentary Group, I am voting in favour of all the motions under discussion in this House, which clearly acknowledge the call for reform, simplification of processes and support for farmers, especially when it comes to small or very small farms and family-run or youth-run activities. [[Applause from Senator Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u21	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, we have not heard from the voice of the representative of the Government the commitment we would have expected: a solemn and serious commitment. I want to see the Deputy Minister's look and I want to look him right in the eye. Mr. Deputy Minister, take a commitment and say, "We will!" Otherwise we will always have the great uncertainty that the acts adopted here are somewhat pro-forma, without any real impact, either on the regulatory process or with a capacity to influence European policies, as in the case in point. Mr. Deputy Minister, make a commitment and tell us: "Yes, what we will approve here for us will be binding." Otherwise there is still this strong doubt, however much we all say that we will support agricultural policy, that we will do this or that and, despite the favourable opinions that have been given, in the end there is no real relapse in the country. Mr. Deputy Minister, I'd just have to -- except for you to be Minister, instead of the Minister who's not here. [[Applause from Senator Volpi]] and this is a wish that I should like to address to you - that point 11) of the motion to my first signature, i.e. the commitment to take action, so that both Community and national rules are drawn up in a simple and clear way, in order to achieve the objective of greater simplification and bureaucratic easing of the procedures for implementing the CAP. Everything is important, but it would already be enough to make a difference and not to force our farmers to undergo bureaucratic procedures which, in addition to cost, lead them, unfortunately, to consider the CAP more a problem to be suffered than a solution to be taken advantage of. We do not have the structures of the French, with a few farmers and a lot of land to cultivate, but we have an agricultural structure made up of small farmers and a large number of farms, which bear the burden of bureaucracy. Mr. Deputy Minister, seriously commit yourself and commit the Government seriously to this, that is to remove the bureaucratic burden from the responsibilities of our agricultural enterprises: already in this way we will have given a serious hand to Italian agriculture. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u24	GATTI (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I am only a few minutes away from voting in favour of the Group of the European Democratic and Progressive Movement on Senator Formigoni's first-signed motion for a resolution on the common agricultural policy and all the other motions that have been tabled and on which reformulations have been requested. I agree that the reform of the European budget, the negotiation of which will involve the whole of 2017, will be strongly influenced by Brexit, will impose a reflection on the perspective of the common agricultural policy and will impose a definitely renewed vision of European agricultural development after 2020. In the same way, it will be necessary at European level to respond strongly and effectively to the problems which appear to be growing in trade relations with the United States, which threaten the tightening of particularly heavy duties also for Italian agricultural production. I would just like to highlight a few points in the motion, particularly that concerning the need for the common agricultural policy to become one of the priority policies of the European Union (including in terms of resources available), in relation to the role that agriculture plays for food security, for respect for the environment and, in our country in particular, for the care of traditional landscapes, which our Constitution considers worthy of particular protection. Italian agriculture, always characterized by great biodiversity and the excellence of numerous productions, in order to continue to fulfil the functions to which I referred before, absolutely needs innovation and therefore support measures, for example, to precision technologies that allow both to respond to the growing demand for food, but - as in point 9) of the device of the first-signed motion of Senator Formigoni - with less environmental impact, with less standardised use of plant protection drugs and chemistry, with greater use of practices based on variability and crop rotation, on the differentiated management of risk factors and agricultural characteristics. Another request which I think is interesting is that the common agricultural policy should cover all stages of the agri-food chain, from production to distribution, thus enabling us to tackle the long-standing problem of defining the prices of our products by spreading the costs more correctly on all the nodes of the supply chain and also by working on the common organization of the market by promoting aggregations between companies, while guaranteeing access to support measures also for the smaller players. The points highlighted above, the modernization with environmentally compatible technologies and the unified vision of the supply chain are essential steps so that in our country, but perhaps also throughout Europe, it is possible to overcome the problems now become intolerable of the exploitation of work in agriculture. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u27	COMPAGNONE (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, over the years, the phenomenon of reduced revenues and higher costs in agriculture has become more acute. We constantly hear our farmers complaining that income from agricultural production does not cover costs. Since 1994-1995, the situation has become quite unsustainable and even the turn towards organic production is often insufficient to guarantee an adequate income, because of the process of "conventionalization" of organics that forces producers to face new problems and to adapt more and more to the large distribution and conventional market. Moreover, the collection times for the sale of products are long and the farmer is in considerable difficulty not often having liquidity; in this sense, he is forced to resort to bank credit which - alas - we know is often unavailable to our farmers. In this situation, farmers continue to be excluded from the control of the supply chain, to play a marginal role and to be more and more succubated by the choices of large-scale distribution. And the risk is the abandonment of the land, although the data at our disposal tell us of an increase of 90,000 new agricultural enterprises conducted by young people under the age of thirty-five. Of course, this is a good thing, but the issue is how to ensure the longevity of new businesses. We wonder if the new companies will resist, since the phenomenon could appear cyclical and conditioned by the industrial and employment crisis, favored by momentary facilities that are very often not long-term and do not refer to a structural investment strategy in the sector. Certainly we Italians and especially Sicilians, the first producers of citrus fruits, can no longer tolerate the fact that Italy has become the main net importer of citrus fruits and our producers can no longer sell them at decent prices or even cover production costs. We can certainly import, adapt to globalisation and make sure that certain products can be imported. However, we are strongly convinced that, in the meantime, we must ensure that our products are placed on the market and then, if necessary, we can open up to products that come from outside. We cannot therefore, in the name of free competition and globalisation, condemn hundreds of producers to economic failure. A duty of protection is therefore demanded by the Government, as well as the greatest effort is required to protect an economy, a history and a culture: our agriculture. We find it paradoxical, dear Vice Minister - and I quote to simplify the case of citrus fruits - how, in view of the great quality and variety that are allignano only in Sicily (such as red oranges) and despite the fact that domestic production is not able to cover all the needs of Italian families, we cannot market our product at decent prices and we are forced to watch the marketing of products that come from abroad and above all from Spain. I mentioned citrus fruits, but the same applies to other agricultural products, such as wheat - we know that the problem is largely linked to the question of durum wheat - or our excellent oil. These are the problems that the Government - in our opinion - must pose with determination, giving - as has been raised several times in this House - a sign of determination and strength in guaranteeing Italian products. The issue of the share of financial participation - for example - in order to access Community operational programmes through the presentation of projects must find an appropriate solution. What sense does it make to develop beautiful projects, even innovative ones in agriculture, when those responsible for providing credit make a thousand difficulties and in fact do not help agricultural entrepreneurs? It is the old problem that we have repeatedly stressed: very often, especially the young farmer finds the doors closed by the banking system and fails to invest. Another important issue is the question of guaranteeing the health of our products and consumer protection. We know that products from third countries do not provide guarantees in this regard, and it is clear that this issue must find a suitable solution in European tables. We cannot succumb to the great distribution, the need for those who want to be enriched at all costs in the face of our production, our farmers and, above all, the health of our citizens. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u30	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, colleagues who, with different nuances, but with great efficiency, have spoken today in explaining the motions on the particularly sensitive subject relating to the state of common agricultural policies, have unveiled in a precise and precise way the greatest points of criticality that occur at national and European level in the field of policies: the streamlining of processes; the problem of bureaucracy; the simplification of procedures; the traceability of production; a more effective activity of contrast to the very serious phenomenon of agromafie, which represents one of the boundaries of the business around which criminal organizations are concentrated. Among other issues to be addressed are the enhancement of our products, which constitute an extraordinarily important brand, and the harmonization of national legislation, but above all supranational legislation, overcoming the handicap of a bar that rises or lowers depending on the conveniences, which - as has been mentioned by other colleagues - puts in conditions of difficulty our special productions of oil, citrus fruits and wheat, which are particularly relevant. All these problems have found reasonable proposals, absolutely concrete and effective. Mr. Deputy Minister, I would have expected a stronger, more solemn commitment, because we need confirmation that our Government in Europe is defending the tricolour. We need confirmation that, in European tables, national policy succeeds in asserting, with pride and determination, the national policies that govern GDP up to 2.5% and represent, for more than 730,000 companies, an extraordinary prospect for production and employment. I am afraid, however, that the rewordings that have been done will dilute this commitment in homeopathic concentrations. Nevertheless, the LAG Group, with respect for the different specificities, through me affirms its share and its vote in favour of all the motions that have been presented. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, MPL, RP).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u33	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, it is important that the Agriculture Commission, with the first motion by Senator Formigoni, has promoted a single document on the common agricultural policy just a few months after the G7 on agriculture; a truly articulated and courageous motion, which touches all the strategic points, also according to the work planned for the post-2020 programming. I would like to thank my colleagues in the Commission for the valuable work they have done and for accepting many specific requests that I have made. I would also like to thank Deputy Minister Olivero, who has made himself available to accept virtually all the motions, albeit with some rewordings, even if we are now expecting the facts from the Government, because there really are many commitments. Speaking of programming up to 2020 - as it has evidenced also the motion - I am forced to denounce as the Italian application of the CAP continues to give priority above all to the companies of the plain. I will not repeat here again the wider role played by mountain agriculture, for example against the depopulation of the territory and for the maintenance of social cohesion, for the fight against hydrogeological failure, for the promotion of tourism, for the productions typical of niche and quality, for biodiversity. The aim of the new CAP was to remodulate intervention, convergence, both at Community level and within the Member States, with a view to bringing the different situations closer together. Unfortunately, Italy has followed the Irish choice: even in the new programming we find ourselves in the situation where, in the calculation of the new values, 70% of the historical titles are referred to. In this way, companies that have received funding in the past continue to have a substantial competitive advantage, at the expense of those that have never benefited from it. As the Commission's document well explains, this does not favour innovation, nor does it favour young people, nor does it favour quality and merit policy. Moreover - as we know - the title consists of two components, a base and a greening. Italy, in this case too, rather than pursuing Europe's demand for homogenisation, has assessed the greening component at 30% of the basic title which, in turn, is conditioned by the historical titles, with the consequence, also in this case, of penalising mountain agriculture, but in the meantime it must respect the same constraints and procedures, even if it does not have the same access to financing. The last critical aspect concerns the special reserve that Europe has rightly acknowledged to young people and to the mountains. Italy theoretically allocates resources taking into account both categories, but from a practical point of view, tolerating speculation on the youth side, there is a risk that the mountain will remain nothing of the fund allocated to the reserves. That is why I believe that, while we favour young people, a fixed quota should be set for the mountain, such as 30%. I start to conclude, hoping that our country, within the work already started for the next CAP, will have the courage to change, favouring those who deserve it and not the rents of position. I hope especially for small businesses that want to grow, for young people who at the first settlement need to be supported, for mountain agriculture and niche production, for those who focus on excellence and allow Italian agriculture to grow and to be competitive. And I hope above all for Europe: the thread of trust between European institutions and citizens will not be re-established unless the perception is broken that European policies protect only the great interests. Unfortunately, this CAP still takes pictures of this situation, the one that we have long denounced and which is a problem for all the categories I have listed before (young people, those who want to do, those who bet on the productions of excellence and on their territory) and that should instead be encouraged, protected and valued, to the detriment of those who take advantage, instead, of the rents of position, often even with tricks and abuses. I believe that the conceptual approach of this CAP is wrong: a policy that really wanted to promote the sector - I conclude, Mr President - should encourage, instead, all those who work on process and product innovations. Then there is the tendency to reason always and above all on large companies: niche productions do not have the attention they deserve, if you think that it is from it that usually comes the main innovations. Finally, one last appeal to the Government: I expect an act of courage with regard to the demands of the vines replantation. I hope that the questions will no longer be evaluated on the percentage of the area, but vice versa on young people and those who want to grow the company and make innovation. I hope that, in essence, a choice of merit and method will be made and that the Government, at least in this respect, will have courage. Having said that, I declare my Group's vote in favour of all motions, as reworded. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u36	Formigoni (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with one thing: almost 40% of the European budget is allocated to agriculture. This is often ignored, left in the background of our conscience, but which alone says the importance of the subject we have dealt with today and the great moment that can represent the motions that we are about to approve. Agriculture is historically one of the cornerstones of the Union. It is not by chance - to give an example - that British farmers have been the most decisive opponents of Brexit to the end. Well, this 40% of the European budget translates into a series of chapters that I would like to briefly mention. For the 2014-2020 programming the CAP puts on the plate about 408 billion: 312 billion direct annual financing of support to the market and over 95 billion euros of contributions for the support to rural development, the latter even more integrated from the resources made available by the member countries. To give the example of our country, in the seven year 2014-2020 Italy has to spend in total 52 billion euros, of which 27 billion related to direct payments, 4 billion for the common organization of the market of wine and fruit and vegetables, over 10 billion for rural development. The RDP itself can count on an additional €10 billion from the National Fund. In short, this is a fairly substantial overall amount. It is for this reason that it was necessary for the Senate to take a position, knowing that rural activity has always been conditioned by factors not only economic, but also health and atmospheric, which are beyond the control of the entrepreneurs. Onerous investments are needed, which produce results only after a long time and are constantly subject to the risk of being frustrated. On the other hand, CAP income support allows farmers to continue their activities, despite several factors of uncertainty, providing them with a decent standard of living on average and beyond. Through the common agricultural policy, safe and high-quality food supplies are guaranteed at affordable prices. They protect the environment and biodiversity. The hydrogeological failure is fought and animal welfare is encouraged. With the resources allocated through the CAP funds, our agriculture can grow in profitability and productivity. And our resources are concentrated on these objectives. In order to compete in the global world, we must ensure our producers a decent income and resources, in order to ensure that the investments necessary to guarantee the quality that everyone expects from Italy are guaranteed every time. Another objective which the CAP, as we have drawn up, will have to achieve is the rebalancing of inequalities within the chain. By encouraging supply chain agreements and enhancing the origin of products, we can make our producers stronger on the market. Also in the motion of which I have the honour of being the first signatory we want less bureaucracy and more attention, also for the productive and environmental characteristics of the EU countries of the Mediterranean, which have often had problems applying rules (such as greening), think too often and only for Northern Europe. We also want to reflect on our regional model, which often makes full use of the resources available difficult. As I conclude, Mr President, I would like to remind you that we are facing a great event, in which Italy will be at the centre of the world stage on the subject of agriculture. I refer to the G7 of 14 and 15 October, which will take place in Bergamo with the Ministers for Agriculture, within the framework of the ten thematic summits to be held during the Italian presidency of the seven most industrialized countries. This will be an opportunity for Italy to address fundamental issues together with our partners: support for small producers against speculation and crisis; the use of green technologies and innovations; the care of biodiversity; the fight against hunger and waste. We must take advantage of this opportunity of great visibility in order to make the most of the Italian agricultural sector, our excellences and all our farmers, who in many years of work and sacrifices have been able to build a fabric of companies strongly rooted in the territory and a food heritage of great value. Similarly, the summit of the Ministers of Agriculture will be the right time to make known the many experiences of young people who are returning to the land, betting on agriculture with enthusiasm and preparation, bringing new energies and new skills, giving rise to extraordinary entrepreneurial initiatives: from the rediscovery of the ancient varieties of cereals, to social farms, farms and dynamic farms. Mr President, we are positively putting in place a model of agriculture capable of combining tradition and innovation, outlining new future trajectories for a sector that is fundamental to the national and European economy, in order to protect the environment, hydrogeological balances and safeguard the richness of our plant and animal biodiversity. This is a crucial historical phase in order to increase the speed of the virtuous processes and make our country the example, in Europe and in the world, of a responsible agricultural power. For all these reasons, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I declare the Group of the European People's Alternative Group's vote in favour and convinced of the motion of which I have the honour of being the first signatory.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u39	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I hope that today's debate has left a mark, and first of all, a conviction that should be very strong in Parliament, namely the importance of devoting all the necessary attention to the primary sector, to agriculture, which we must increasingly re-learn to consider strategic. And I use the term re-learn because over time such attention, even from the point of view of the economic future of the country, has in some ways diminished. The quality of our agriculture, on the other hand, and the need for this quality and agriculture itself to remain a fundamental element for the development of the country, for the protection of the territory, for the protection of our landscape, for our food security. It is therefore absolutely essential that, in view of the great contribution that Italian agriculture makes to the country and to the well-being of citizens, acceptable living and income conditions for farmers are maintained. I have often heard the role of agriculture exalted in debates and discussions, but it is often forgotten that, without farmers, agriculture would not exist, with all its benefits. For this reason, the defence of our farmers and their income must again be one of the elements of reflection and priority initiative of the country's economic policies. The strategic importance of the CAP instrument must therefore be strongly reaffirmed at European level. Among other things, I would like to remind everyone that agricultural policy is the only truly common policy of the European Union, all the more so now, after the exit of Britain, that on the issue of the European budget in this area it has always posed various problems. The CAP must be aimed not only at European food supply, which is certainly why it is born, but also at ensuring that the resources already allocated to the Member States are unchanged, all the more so with a view to the reform which began on 14 September, with the presentation by the European Commission of the proposal for an interim review. Having said that, however, we cannot fail to point out here - as almost everyone has done in the debate and in the various motions - that the CAP, even with the latest reform, has certainly not solved the problems of inequality in the distribution of funds to the detriment of small businesses. It must never be forgotten that the fabric of Italian farms is made up of small and medium-sized farms, unlike other countries, so problems that have not been solved are particularly important. I would also like to point out that there is still an inequality in the distribution of funds: even today, 13% of companies still receive two thirds of public aid. Let us not talk about the great difficulty that continues to be encountered because of the oligopolistic concentration phenomena of the companies that supply seeds, machinery and that mainly control the platforms of the large distribution. Among other things, this phenomenon is continuing to grow and contributes to the loss of negotiating power by farmers. We also put the burden on ourselves, because it is far from easy for Italian farmers to have access to practices and, therefore, the problem of simplification, which we have stressed very strongly in our motion, is even more obvious. We reiterate therefore that it is absolutely necessary that the Government intervenes in order to orient the aids and to assure a more adequate support to the farms under family management, previewing measures aimed at the contrast of the phenomena of excessive concentration and oligopoly and encouraging measures aimed at shortening the relationships of supply chain. The other problem is access to land, which today is a very serious issue, particularly for young farmers. Another of the issues that we need to find a way to deal with and resolve is that - as has been seen in the months of the first application of the reform - of the so-called greening. We believe that a new dimension of greening policies should be promoted - and the government must spend on this - which is more focused on the substance of environmental results and not solely on form. For this reason, measures for water consumption, carbon accumulation in soils must be increased as a counter to climate change and the massive reduction in the use of chemicals. I think, therefore, of a series of actions that are in substance, and not in form, greening measures. We are also asking - and this is another critical issue that has arisen in the first years of the new CAP - to ensure that the legal status of the active farmer, today called into question by the regulation before the European Parliament, is once again guaranteed through the allocation of public resources primarily to those living in agriculture. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. The other colleagues spoke for five minutes. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). I am concluding, Mr President, but I would like the Deputy Minister to listen to me. That is why we have accepted the proposed rewording, but we feel that some of the issues we have highlighted have been watered down. For all the reasons listed, we believe that a step forward has been taken and we declare the favorable vote of the Senators of the Italian Left to all the motions proposed. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u42	WOMAN (M5S). Mr President, rural areas cover more than 77 per cent of Community territory and farmers provide a stable supply of food, obtained through sustainable and affordable methods, to more than 500 million European citizens. The European Commission confirms that 22 million farmers and agricultural workers are the cornerstone of one of the largest economic sectors in the European Union, namely agri-food. With a total of 44 million jobs in food processing, retail and catering, European policy and individual Member States have a duty to focus not only on innovation, but also and above all on rewarding incentives for those who practice sustainable crops, enhancing the natural environment and its wealth. That is why it is essential that there is practical work in European negotiations in the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy, as well as in the post-2020 CAP programming. First of all, we believe it is necessary to review the implementation of the principle of support for crops in difficulty through the revision of the coupled aid component and the allocation of any resources that will be released from it to a fund for crises in agriculture and the relaunch of sectors in difficulty, aimed at financing interventions in the event of serious market imbalances, emergencies due to animal diseases, diseases and natural disasters and for contributions aimed at relaunching strategic sectors in difficulty. In our opinion, it is also necessary to promote the adoption of measures and protocols that prevent the emergence of bacterial and non-bacterial pathologies and other diseases, also through the promotion of correct information among workers in the sector regarding the use of plant protection drugs. We have been repeating this for years and Xylella, whom you all know, has literally brought Puglia and other regions to their knees. It is shown that preventive action could have avoided what then became a real alarm, which then degenerated. It should be extended to all agricultural and agri-food products, with particular reference to strategic sectors for Italy such as olive growing and with revision of the related regulation, the obligation to indicate the origin on the label, in order to allow the consumer to know, in a clear and transparent way, the various stages from production to processing and subsequent trade. [[Brusio.]] Ma'am, I can't scream and scream. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's right. Now we're gonna suspend the session, and then we're gonna see that everybody comes back and shut up. WOMAN (M5S). Thank you, President. Specific rules must be provided for the protection and promotion of short supply chains and, therefore, for reference, also to farmers operating in local markets, whose role is fundamental for the management of the territory and the protection of the environment, increasingly damaged by useless infrastructure works (TAV and TAP first of all), now synonymous with devastation of the territory. Rural development rules need to be revised so that the regional programmes finally provide for mandatory measures for the protection, where existing, of valuable landscape crops. The establishment of interbranch organisations and professional organisations must be supported in order to create virtuous networks of collaboration. In addition, specific support should be promoted for mountain farming areas by virtue of their strategic importance as a garrison of the territory, without forgetting, of course, all those territories that, although not mountainous, are equally disadvantaged. We consider it essential to increase the national ceiling for coupled payments, from the current 11% to 13%, by reducing the basic payment by two percentage points, in order to allocate a specific premium to cape cape (as currently foreseen for cape sheep) and to provide a specific premium for bovine and buffalo animals for which the administration of non-GMO feed is demonstrated. For this reason, I renew my request to the Government to be a bearer of direct interest to the European Union. It is also necessary to ensure the financing of incentives for the use of organic, bio-dynamic, synergistic and agro-ecological farming methods. Let us not forget, in fact, that an increasingly green and sustainable approach - Mr President, allow me a few more minutes as it did with other colleagues - represents the future of the primary sector. Finally, but not in terms of importance, measures must be taken to encourage extensive farming in order to favour their development in relation to intensive farming. Too many areas have been left aside for too long. Just think of the need to encourage good practices for all farmers affected by countless disasters, through the recovery of abandoned land where, among others, hemp is also grown. These are all issues which have unquestionable Community inerencies and which must be dealt with first by the national government. I conclude with a very significant sentence from the Dalai Lama: I think that in agriculture we should make much more limited use of chemicals and come into harmony with natural processes as much as possible. In the immediate future, perhaps this would lead to lower profits, in the long run it would be beneficial. It is our duty to maintain such a farsightedness, always keeping these precious words in mind. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u45	[[Brusio]] I would ask colleagues in your Group to allow you to speak, and to lower the tone of your voice. AMIDEI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, today is an important day because we are finally debating motions which in various ways take up the needs to set out a path so that our agriculture can grow and guarantee a future for the new generations as well. However, there are still many problems to be resolved and a number of issues have not been properly addressed and dealt with in the right way and in order to actually resolve the various problems that exist. We talk about agriculture, we make a list of all the things that we would like to achieve, but in fact the basic question remains: how much of everything we have written will be realized? How much of this does the Government actually intend to carry on? The central point is not so much to say things in a proper way or in a sort of desired way, but to put in place all the actions to ensure that our agriculture can solve the major problems that it faces every day in all sectors. And this morning I mentioned some of them, from fruit and vegetables to cereals, to sugar. Basically all the problems related to an agriculture we are proud of remain, to the extent that it is now recognised throughout Europe as of quality and excellence. According to some data from 2012 (i.e. a little old), with 248 recognised products (PGI, PDO, STG) we have obtained European and international recognition. But that is not enough to ensure the future for our farms. Future means transparent market, prices and guarantees that the product made in Italy is protected in the world, that is what is not happening today. As we have repeated so many times, the phenomenon of Italian sounding is now widespread, quantified by all in the figure of 60 billion euros. In the context of the common agricultural policy, we must first of all establish that farms must have a certain path. The product must be guaranteed for its quality and not because someone has established that it must be. We boast of being producers with our brand of excellence of Made in Italy, but farmers claim to be defended. As I said this morning, we are faced with products of primary importance for our tables that are macerated, plowed under and milled, while in the world there are people who starve to death. We must also pursue a policy of this kind, which is not confined solely to European interests. We need to know that we do damage to agriculture when a product is thrown away. We must not just see that some units grow in the agricultural sector because young people invest. Young people invest in agriculture because they have no alternative, but we all need to know that agriculture is not in fact satisfactory yet. What do you mean it doesn't give satisfaction? I quote some data. We are faced with transport costs that on average amount to more than 30% than those of other European countries, while energy costs are 70% higher. The farm fabric is much lower than that of the French cousins: we have an average company of 7, 8 hectares against that of 30, 40 hectares in France. How then can we compete in a world and European market? We must protect our products and farms and give them the opportunities that our young people are asking for. And I am not just talking about young people, because we must also think about the future. Thinking about the future means - I repeat - less bureaucracy, more opportunities and ensuring that European agricultural policy guarantees our farmers. For these reasons, the vote of the Group I represent can only be in favour of all the motions that have been tabled, which go in a positive direction. However, it remains a great doubt, because things must not only be said and written, but also implemented in the interests of our farmers and, above all, consumers, who must eat a quality product, guaranteed and valued for what they actually deserve. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u48	PIGNEDOLI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister Olivero, today we are not just talking about the future of agriculture for farmers: a policy that goes from land management and their nourishment to people's health cannot be considered more of a sector or a category, but belongs to the whole of society. It is no coincidence that in the debate in Europe there are those who propose a new definition and talk about a new agricultural and food policy, to give a sense of the interrelationship of the different stages of the food supply chain. Today there is an ongoing debate on the mid-term review of the CAP, which in the omnibus regulation has opened up the possibility of major changes: simplifications, market measures, risk management. Our country, our government and Parliament have made an important contribution to the integration of innovations and incisive changes, but we are in the final phase of the 2014-2020 programme and we must start to confront ourselves on post 2020, in a Europe that is experiencing radical changes, from terrorism to anti-European movements, in international dynamics that inaugurate new protectionisms and launch disturbing signs of destabilisation. In this scenario, continuity or small maintenance of the historical approach of the CAP are not possible: it must be rethought and reset. An agricultural policy that can hold together market and solidarity, globalisation and territorial identities, individuals and businesses, but at the same time community and cohesion. A huge but forced challenge, in a century that places us the highest contradictions, a century where there is an increase of food needs for the strong population growth, but on the other hand there is the decrease of the fertile lands by quantity of the surfaces, by decrease of quality, impoverished soils, aquifers in suffering and compromised. While the first common policy of 1969, with the Europe that was born precisely from the agricultural alliance, focused on the development of intensive productions for food self-sufficiency, today the challenge is called environmental sustainability, consumer protection and health, promoting a high level of employment. It is called the economic sustainability of agricultural activities; economic sustainability, without the public replacing the market, where the market exists, but helps to compete with new factors of competition. Do not replace yourself, but help the company to try to stay on the markets. That the public intervenes instead where the market cannot exist, where agriculture means maintenance of the slopes and keeping of the communities. The public intervenes where agriculture is subsistence and is heroic agriculture, where it becomes an instrument of true social inclusion. The public supports where agriculture (the enterprise) actually assumes social responsibility, where agriculture and territory, agriculture and communities focus on common objectives. No to public resources intended as general assistance, but give on a measurement of public utility. This is why we rethink and reimpose a policy of rural development that is less bureaucratic complication, less dispersion in a thousand measures and sub-measures that are not always controllable and instead move towards common objectives, concentrate more subjects together, concentrate resources, so that they can affect the real change of a territory and become strategy. In the relationship between agriculture and the market, where the market exists, we need a real reversal of course. Adjustments will not be enough, as has rightly been said. Yes, simplification among the first objectives, because we cannot tolerate that bureaucratic processes still eat a large part of the resources in 2020 and degrade the efforts of agricultural operators. Simplifying yes, but it is not enough to think that we have fulfilled our task. We need to be aware that a change of perspective and vision is required in a market that has become world-wide, which is intertwined with the financialisation of food products, which increases the risks and volatility of the price of raw materials. In this context, they are no longer feasible and possible tools that try to bend, close and condition. More than replacing the market, today all the use of the public must be concentrated in equipping new European farmers, so that they can face the new challenges, many of which are completely new: climate change that upsets the ripening times, which in a flattening of the climate facilitate the adaptation of new unknown parasites that we struggle to fight. To equip means to give more weight to training, counselling and research. Commissioner Hogan spoke of resilience. We agree, because the intensification of the risks faced by farmers requires a continuous adaptation capacity and the ability to equip themselves with respect to extreme conditions. Creating a resilient system, for example, means focusing on prevention strategies and not just post-crisis. A company diversified in production is less vulnerable than a monoculture-based company. A company online with others is less exposed than an isolated company. Resilient is also what reconciles, connects economic, social, ecological and ethical strategies. Quality work is a competitive factor and not an obligatory constraint. Therefore, environmental sustainability, new factors of competitiveness, generational replacement require a decisive change in the approach of CAP resources. For the complex value of agriculture we need a centrality, an adequate budget, as has been said, not one-off, not in the wave of continuity due, but aimed at strategies that aim at greater responsibility, which means moving from a premium to rents to a premium to the ability to undertake, from a payment to the subjects and their "historical" to a premium to actions and innovations. This presupposes a radical change in the idea of the agricultural producer. In a 2017 that thinks beyond 2020 there must be a radical change in the role of the agricultural producer. The commitment and resources to young people are important, but this is not enough if we think that the role of young people is equal to that of old. We need a revolution that leads to a strong protagonism in the food system and this can only happen if the producer accompanies his product to the market, knowing the market itself. Selling raw materials, semi-finished products, means creating value and giving to others profitability, means making the producer bear all the increasing risks, climate and plant protection, in the production phase [[Recalls of the President]] and give to others, who deal with the low-risk stages of business, the most useful: it is a paradox. The profile of the new agricultural enterprise must find a new entrepreneurial system: it is not enough to do as we have always done and as we did. So let us move from what is called a protection system to a promotion system. We must move on to the idea of providing our country and Europe with what is called intelligent food, which is good for health, good for the environment and good for the economy. The PD Group supports this approach and will vote in favour of the various motions for our consideration. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u49	Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 744 (text 2). SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the voting of motions to be carried out simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 744 (text 2), tabled by Senator Formigoni and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 760 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 760 (text 2), tabled by Senator Campanella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 761 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 761 (text 2), tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 763. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Amidei and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion 763. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 765 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I call on Senator Stefano and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on motion No. 765 (text 2). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 767 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 767 (text 2), tabled by Senator Donno and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on motion No 770 (text 2). I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for simultaneous voting by electronic procedure is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 770 (text 2), tabled by Senator Barani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u52	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, it seems to me that the Groups have agreed on the possibility of convening Commissions 5a and 2a, which should also conclude their work with a view to the work of the Assembly in the coming days. I would therefore ask you to suspend the work of this House, if there is general agreement, in order to allow the Presidents of these Commissions to be able to convene them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u53	If there are no comments, this remains the case. Colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity - and I hope you will join me - to wish our Secretary-General, Dr Serafin happy birthday. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u54	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-13-LEG17-Senato-sed-837.ana.u55	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.58 p.m.
