ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.36 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Frevezzi, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 10 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,38 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u6	CUCCA (PD). Mr President, I take the floor to recall a friend, as well as a teacher, who died in Sardinia on Saturday morning at the age of seventy-one. I am talking about Salvatore Ladu, who has been a senator and also a deputy for a long time. A long period of illness for a few months had forced him to abandon any activity. Last Saturday the disease ended and died. Salvatore Ladu has been the protagonist of a thousand electoral battles and has also been the protagonist of the transition from the first to the second Republic. He had started his political activity very young in the ranks of the young Christian Democrats of the province of Nuoro and his debut in the institutions dates back to 1970, when he was elected city councilor, then, two years later, mayor of his native country, Olzai. Since 1979 he has been a regional councillor for almost thirteen years and at the same time held important roles within the party at local level, starting in the provincial secretariat of the Christian Democracy of Nuoro, and gradually, climbing its political path, until becoming regional secretary, office that he held for about nine years. He was then a member of the national leadership until the end of the party, thus becoming one of the most important and significant politicians in Sardinia. From 1992 to 2008 he was parliamentary, from the eleventh to the fifteenth legislature, alternating his participation in parliamentary activity first in the Senate, then for two legislatures in the Chamber and finally again in the Senate until 2008, when he voluntarily withdrew from specific positions, instead devoting himself entirely to doing the "wise teacher" of politics in Sardinia. He also held positions of government, having been Undersecretary for three times, both to industry and to public works. He grew up in the party of the Libertas Crusader Shield, in the Catholic left current, and after the dissolution of the Christian Democracy in 1994 I had contributed to the birth of the Italian People's Party, becoming also vice-responsible for the organization in the same party. Later it had flown into the olive tree of Romano Prodi and then into the Margaret. He was a tireless party leader who devoted his whole life to politics. He was a fine mediator, far-sighted weaver of complicated electoral alliances and also government at various territorial levels. In 2007 he helped to write the statute of the Democratic Party, with which he had concluded his parliamentary activity the following year, holding in the Senate the position of Secretary to the Presidency. At the end of his active experience he decided to devote himself full-time to the newborn Democratic Party. Salvatore Ladu was the authoritative contact of many national leaders: from Ciriaco De Mita to Franco Marini, from Pier Luigi Bersani to Pierluigi Castagnetti, people with whom he had a very close relationship and a cordial bond of friendship. He was also very attached to the territory of Nuorese and especially to the thousands of its voters scattered in the different countries of Barbagia and still able to weave fine relations throughout the territory of Sardinia. Despite having reached the high institutional spheres and frequented for decades the palaces of politics, Salvatore Ladu had never abandoned his native country and in Olzai had maintained his main home and maintained solid ties. He was a man of extraordinary political intelligence and instinct who contributed decisively to the growth and affirmation of a new ruling class in his party, establishing a constant dialogue with the youngest. This is one of the elements that has best characterized his political life. To young people he has always transmitted enthusiasm and pride of belonging, involving them personally in the political action of his and the party. He was a very shy man, very simple and even when he held roles of primary importance in both regional and national scenery he always avoided media exposure. He said he preferred actions to words. Salvatore, in the course of his long career, with this way of acting, has certainly brought a significant contribution, sometimes decisive, to the development of Sardinia and especially of the Nuorese who was his land, a sign, this, of an unequivocal attachment to his territory, to his region. This attachment has characterized all its political path. To this, as I said, it united a profound foresight that had allowed him to always grasp the changes in progress in order to adapt his political action to the actuality, always in the wake of solidarity, of the attention to the weakest, always giving priority to the human relationship compared to the political one and always acting with a dedication out of the ordinary and with a great humility that allowed him to weave very fine relations with the political forces to his opponents, often obtaining, so, thanks to his ability to make synergy with the other political forces, tangible results also in Sardinia. His disappearance today leaves a deep void in the Sardinian and Nuorese political community. All I have to do is express a deep condolence and, if I may, a personal feeling of deep gratitude for what he has done for his territory, for his region, but, if I may, for me personally too, since I am considered his political "son." I therefore express my condolences to my wife Pieranna, to her children Luca, Barbara, Angela, Monica and Giancosimo and to all the family members. It is a figure that will certainly miss me but, I am sure, it will also miss the politics of Sardinia. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u7	Senator Cucca, the Presidency is associated with your memory and with the condolences you expressed also because I was lucky enough to meet Salvatore Ladu personally and to appreciate his human and political characteristics.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u10	Mr Finocchiaro, Minister for Relations with Parliament. Mr President, on behalf of the Government and on a personal basis, I would like to join in the words of Senator Cucca in remembrance of Senator Ladu.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u11	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law No 10-362-388-395-849-874-B, already approved by the Senate in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Senators Manconi and others, Casson and others, Barani, De Petris and De Cristofaro, Buccarella and others, Torrisi, and modified by the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting on 14 July the amendments tabled to Article 1 continued to be examined and that the rapporteurs tabled two amendments to Article 1 at their sitting on 9 May and that the deadline for submitting sub-amendments was set. The Presidency states that sub-amendments 1,800/18 and 1,800/21 are inadmissible because they are intended to amend the draft law and not the text of the amendment to which they refer. The examination of the draft law should resume with the vote on amendment 1.214. As we have not yet completed the 20-minute period of notice, we could proceed with the illustration of the sub-amendments. If no comments are made, this remains the case. I therefore invite the presenters to explain the sub-amendments presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u12	Mr President, I have tabled as the first signatory a number of sub-amendments which correspond to amendments tabled by other senators in the file. I would point out that, in my view, the first amendment tabled by the rapporteurs - I am referring to Amendment No 1,800 - had to be declared inadmissible in accordance with the following rapid consideration. I would remind you that a few months ago this House had interrupted its work following the vote it had voted against the specification'reiterate', an adjective referring to violence or serious threats. At that point a sort of political agreement had been missed and everything had been postponed. Now, at the resumption of the work, we find ourselves with amendment 1,800, tabled by the rapporteurs, which refers to more conduct, but with the most serious specification compared to the adjective "reiterate" that has already been eliminated, which refers only to violence or serious threats. In this case, as a result of the wording used, if the fact is committed through more than one course of action, it even introduces a sort of punishable condition. Beyond the fact that it is a condition of criminality technically defined as intrinsic, extrinsic, own or improper, it must be noted that the configuration and identification of the torture crime are considerably aggravated, creating problems in the investigative phase and the judiciary in the identification of possible criminal responsibilities. The text, as presented and also considering the content of amendment 1,800, completely upsets the intentions of all international conventions. The draft law under consideration involved, in particular Article 1, a series of downward compromises, misleading and changing the text of the Convention against Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. I would like to remind you that the text that was fired from the Chamber of Deputies was more respectful than the text that was approved in the Senate Justice Commission. The text approved in the Commission and presented to the House by the rapporteurs is outside the international conventions and in violation of the obligations of international law to which the Italian State is bound. In fact, in no international convention - I am referring to all those from the fifties to the sixties, eighties and two thousand - there is reference to serious violence or threats. On the contrary, the reference is to act with cruelty, to the verifiable psychic trauma and, as the rapporteurs would like now, if the fact is committed through more conduct. This criminality condition will make it impossible to prove such a crime, because the criminality condition means that the crime is already consumed and can already be verified when the investigation is completed with respect to the text that we have. So, good or bad, if circumstances occur such as violence, threats, cruelty, acute psychic suffering and verifiable trauma, there is a crime right now. If amendment 1,800 were to be adopted, there would be a condition for which, although it is already a crime, it is not punishable. This really means not wanting to make a bill against torture in a minimally serious way. My request is therefore, first and foremost, to re-evaluate the question of the propriety of the amendment, even though it has already been declared admissible. Secondly, I am voting against this amendment. The amendments and sub-amendments presented are palliatives, transitional stages and pathways to try to mitigate the seriousness of the possible adoption of this bad bill against torture. I would like to remind you of another aspect. All international conventions, beginning with that of 1952, in speaking of torture indicate the following purpose (as it was rightly written in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies): "in order to obtain (...) information or statements or to inflict punishment or to overcome a resistance, i.e. due to ethnicity, sexual orientation" and so on. In the text under consideration, however, the aims are completely omitted. Another problem is that torture, under the 1952 Convention, is equated, as a situation, with inhuman or degrading treatment and all international conventions describe this situation by talking about inhuman or degrading treatment. In contrast - obviously the meaning is different - we do not understand why the expression 'human and degrading treatment' has still been reintroduced in Amendment 1,800. It is certainly not the same, but this is another obstacle to the investigation of the facts of torture which should be very clear and very linear, paraphrasing, in some respects, the UN International Convention which was approved in the 1980s. For the time being, at this stage, I shall confine myself to this and reserve the right to speak at the time of the vote on the sub-amendments. The 1952 Convention to which I referred stated, as the first rule of international law creating restrictions of international law, that no one can be subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. This is the text. Then the torture was better defined, but the Senate is overturning the text of the International Convention. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u13	Mr President, I had asked for time to explain the amendments and I did not know that this window would open for the sub-amendments, but I certainly take this opportunity to recall some points already advanced by Senator Casson in relation to the amendment of the rapporteurs 1.800. The conjunctive particle, which links the diction with the diction of inhumane treatment, to the degradating diction for the dignity of the person, is quite frankly also outside the international conventions, in which, instead of the conjunction, there is the disjunction of the person, which should be proposed, as I did with sub-amendment 1,800/16. In fact, we do not understand why both conditions have to exist so that the crime is to be considered as existing, that is, that the treatment is inhuman but also degrading to dignity, when in fact in the conventions the two conditions are placed as an alternative for the existence of the crime. As for the position of the entire amendment, frankly I do not make it so much an issue of inadmissibility, because I believe that the term'more conducted', which is certainly not an element that the 5 Star Movement would urge, is likely to differ from the concept of'reiterate', which has already been the subject of an amendment which has been repealed by the House. I do not therefore make it an issue of eligibility, but at most of opportunity for the rapporteurs, because by placing the entire amendment 1,800 at the end of the first paragraph, where the conduct is defined, it poses as an additional condition which therefore further limits the existence of all the elements for which the torture offence can be answered. I continue to think that if Amendment 1,214 of the 5 Star Movement were adopted, which I believe will be the first that you, Mr President, will put to the vote, which introduces the element of inhuman or degrading human dignity not already as a further filter after having established that there has been physical suffering or a psychic trauma verifiable after violence or serious threats against a person subjected to treatment, control or in all conditions of handicapped defence, it could be done - I do not know if there is any time and possibility of reasoning on this point today - that that element which recalls the principles of international law can be included in the whole text, that is, without the inhuman or degrading treatment being a further condition that is necessary for the crime to exist. Therefore, I do not want to make a question of eligibility, I believe that the rapporteur's amendment, as formulated, is a further and unnecessary restriction of the practical operation of the rule. For this reason, the 5 Star Movement has also submitted sub-amendments aimed at limiting the damage with reference to the conjunction "e" which would be at least appropriate to turn into a "o" (or ") ". [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u14	Mr President, I would like to endorse what Senator Casson has said about the amendment tabled by rapporteurs 1,800 and I would like to draw the House's attention to what perhaps we forgot to have done in the past summer, when this House decided to delete the concept of'reiterate'. Beyond the more or less complete awareness of all that every single word in this article can cause, I would say that however we should all be aware of the fact that by majority we have chosen to eliminate the adjective "reiterate" in relation to violence and threats. It is clear that, as Senator Casson says, the introduction of the term'more conducted' can have the effect of denying what was actually the manifest intention of this House. The fact, then, that so many months have passed, I do not think that any one of us can allow a decision and a direction that has already been taken to be taken by the Commission, which is why I do not see how this amendment by the rapporteurs can be accepted by the House itself, where in its wording it adds the phrase 'by means of more conduct' which in fact makes the identification of a torture offence even more complex. It is clear that, by eliminating the adjective "reiterate", the will of the Assembly was to reach a definition that was more explicit, more direct, more consistent, more visible. It is now difficult to comment on an amendment by the rapporteurs in this way. It is also clear that any intervention with sub-amendments is a response to an introduction that seems at least inappropriate. Senator Buccarella himself, while not expressing himself on the inadmissibility, stressed at least the lack of appropriateness of a reference to this House in these terms, perhaps taking advantage of the fact that it is sadly very distracted. The fact that so much time has passed since the last time we debated may perhaps lead people to fail to realize and to vote in total contrast to the one previously expressed; which, then, could also result in a complication in justifying two votes so different to those who still ask for account, because the introduction of the crime of torture is certainly not a fact on which public opinion can override. With sub-amendment 1,800/5, of which I am first a signatory, we suggest that we restore and reaffirm the same spirit in which the adjective "reiterate" had been removed through the insertion of the phrase "one or more conducted," thus confirming the same vote previously expressed by the Assembly. In this way we limit the damage that would lead us to find a justification for forcing the House to return to a decision already taken, in addition to the fact that for the senators it would mean having to vote against the decision expressed months ago. I shall confine myself to that, and I reserve the right to speak later in an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u15	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education Francesco Saverio Nitti of Potenza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u16	Mr President, in explaining the sub-amendments, I am obliged to take up the issues that were raised by Senator Casson, on which Senator Mineo will speak more specifically in explaining the amendments he has signed. It is clear to everyone that the House, the last time it dealt with this measure in July, expressed itself very clearly, unequivocally, and approved the amendment deleting the word'reiterate'. This is in the wake of a very long discussion that first recalled our duties as a country to comply with international conventions, the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, the stated indications (and also something more than the indications) that have been given to our country when the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) has made it clear that Italy does not yet have the crime of torture in its system. The word "reiterate', such as the word "verifiable', as regards psychic trauma, is absolutely contrary to the clear and acclaimed definition of torture and represents a whole series of attempts to diminish the scope of the introduction of the crime itself. For all these reasons, we find it absolutely incredible that in amendment 1,800 of the rapporteurs this concept is brought back to life, through the term: "more conducted". For this reason, we have been practicing sub-amendments. Moreover, Mr President, I have tabled a sub-amendment which has been declared inadmissible by the Presidency because it referred, in different words, to a concept and to the rules that had already been adopted in the text. I therefore do not understand why it did not exercise the same form of control on this amendment. For all these reasons we have tabled a number of amendments, which the individual senators will explain more specifically; in particular, however, I have tried to mitigate the scope of the words: "more conducted" replacing them with the words: "different conducts," meaning that the concept of recurrence was no longer to be recalled, but that it should be interpreted more correctly at the limit as: "different conducts". This is always in the attempt who mitigates the word "more", that comes back and that for us is absolutely unbearable. The other element is what I mentioned at the beginning and refers to amendment 1,800/17 on psychic trauma. It is evident to all that we want to return, again in this case, to a concept that we cannot bear, that is, that of the word: "verifiable". In a criminal procedure everything must be verifiable, in the sense that it is carried out in all through expert opinions; it is not that if a person has a wound, that one must not be evaluated through expertise. It is not clear why only on psychic trauma should this be noted. For this reason, we have tabled an amendment which seeks to reduce the scope of this concept. As far as Article 1 is concerned, there is the other amendment by the rapporteurs, the 1,801, which deals with the limitation mechanism. We know that the debate on the criminal trial is under way in the House, but in this particular case we present a sub-amendment, the 1.801/8, to double the limitation period.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u17	Mr President, sub-amendment 1,800/9 is intended to call for a check to be made if this is not another crime. It may appear to be a pleonastic one; however, with this law, which must implement international conventions and what has been said, we introduce a very delicate subject, so much so that we pick it up after many months with the reflections we have heard. Amendment 1,800/9 calls for the possibility of other criminal acts to be applied also to remind that it is not that, in the absence of this law on torture, in Italy the police or another force of the order can arbitrarily commit violence to the detriment of people arrested, detained or during a demonstration. In fact, many events have resulted in judgments, convictions and sanctions even very serious, according to the laws that already exist in our country. I am referring to the rules which identify such things as private violence or injury, rules which have existed for some time in criminal law and which provide for anyone - and, more importantly, for those who act in the name of the State - to be forced to make legitimate use of force, to retain people or to intervene in public order, the obligation to do so already today, of course, - and we would miss it if otherwise - in compliance with the existing legislation. The sub-amendment calling for an assessment of the absence of another crime is a way of recalling the existence of other rules and of distinguishing, because torture, if and when there is a law, would exist if there were a number of specific circumstances, whereas there may be a less serious situation that can be sanctioned by rules of a different kind that the law provides and that already in many events, some even striking, have in fact been applied. The sub-amendment seeks to recall all of this. The intervention that I am about to conclude is also an opportunity to say that there is no free will that puts citizens at the mercy of who knows what state violence, because already today there are many rules and this is what the members of the Justice Commission and the refined experts of criminal matters that the Senate Assembly has the privilege of having among its members know very well. Amendment 1,800/9 serves to better limit this rule that, if and when it is adopted, will have to be recalled and applied in special cases, serious, precisely configured and inviting the magistrate to reflect and evaluate - which he certainly does in any case, but to which the norm calls him even more strongly - if it is not others the crimes that are configured.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u18	Mr President, as you know very well, there has been a long debate in this House about whether or not we need to transform the Senate and no longer make it live in the present form; we have discussed for a long time how to regain the dignity of the institution: we have divided ourselves, but we have discussed it. I see here Senator Finocchiaro, who has played a great part in this project. Now, however, how can one defend the dignity of the institution, if the Assembly makes the march of the shrimp, if it walks backwards or - to put it another way - if it does as Penelope, that by day weaves the canvas and by night it dissolves it? I believe that no person who has a fair knowledge of the Italian language may have any doubt that the wording if the fact is committed by means of more conduct is merely a way of reintroducing the term'reiterate', which had at first been settled by this House. Furthermore, I would like to appeal to the PD and to Mr Migliore: we cannot continue to say that this legislature has carried out laws that are important for civil rights, when, for reasons of majority and understanding within it, we propose a law on torture that is much more backward than all international conventions, a law that considers the crime of torture, universally recognized - try to ask a child of lower secondary school whether or not torture exists - not as a real crime, a law that the rapporteurs fail even more, adding the words: "if it involves inhumane and degrading treatment for the dignity of the person", which the sub-amendment 1,800/10, at my first signature, intends to repeal. (17.17) (Follows MINEO). Now I ask you, is there torture that does not involve inhumane and degrading behavior for the dignity of the person? What is the point, then, of this kind of introduction by the rapporteurs? It only makes sense: to transform the crime and the practice of torture, throughout the world, into an excess of the use of force in certain circumstances. This goes against the right recognised. I say then, truly with my heart in my hand: I am pleased that you like Macron so much, but you cannot have a fall in love in days or hours. If you like Macron, who in his settlement speech made an explicit reference to the Enlightenment, as Senator Casson says, you cannot present us in the Senate this ambiguous, surreptitious and absolutely entrepreneurial backwardness - let me say - with respect to the common feeling about torture. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u19	Mr President, I would like to start by re-establishing the truth of the facts. We were taught the consecutio temporum, Mr President, and I address in particular to Senator Mussini, because he made remarks on this very point: anyone can verify that in the text of the draft law distributed in the Assembly there is written the term "reiterate". The Commission had dismissed a text in which the term'reiterate' was present and if something suddenly was deleted in the morning in this House, this led precisely to the reversal of the choice made by the Commission after a thorough examination of the subject. If you want to say that, with the amendment tabled by the rapporteurs, the Government returns to what the Commission had decided, that is exactly how it is: we return to a text which, with the term'reiterate', had raised some problems. I am talking to my colleagues, I am talking to the President, but also to the public: the case of Regen is certainly a case of torture, there is no doubt about it. When our nine compatriots in Dhaka were taken and were first threatened, because they did not know the Koran, then tortured and then cut their throats, that is a case of torture. There is no doubt that international legislators have such situations in mind, especially linked to the confession or cruelty of conduct. But what did we write? I ask you to listen to what torture is like in Italy, taking off the incisions: torture: "Everyone with (...) serious threats (...) causes (...) a verifiable psychic trauma". This, which we introduce, is already torture. So, gentlemen, I don't see anyone from the 'ndrangheta, the camorra or the mafia, who is arrested or to whom personal freedom is taken away, do not say that, since serious threats have been addressed to him, he has a verifiable psychic trauma and do not denounce, meanwhile, those who have arrested him or the magistrate who, surely he will say, has questioned him too harshly. We are in fact approving a text for which torture, while I have in mind the cases I mentioned earlier, are simply also threats and not violence, because the text says: "anyone, with violence or serious threats" causes physical damage or psychic trauma. We have, therefore, gone far beyond international law. He reminded my colleague Gasparri that, above all, we have gone there in a system that already provides for injuries, beatings, injuries and aggravated beatings, violence, manslaughter, arson and manslaughter as crimes that are already hit autonomously today - and rightly so in previous cases - as an autonomous case of injury or violence on people. But in this case we are talking about torture, that is, a very serious thing, not other things, which are already affected by the penal code. The amendment introduced by the rapporteurs or by the Government does nothing but restore the Commission's text, so there is no coup d'état and I turn to colleagues who scandalize it: it was, if anything, when one morning of a few months ago, suddenly, we saw what was already printed in the text distributed to the House. My only amendment - which, of course, is moving in this direction - refers precisely to the reasoning I used to make. If torture is what I have said, i.e. a crime involving penalties that can lead to life imprisonment or, in any case, to dozens of years in prison for the public officer who is also accused of threats or violence, on the basis of the rapporteur's amendment, shared by the Government, this is given if the fact is committed through more conduct or if it involves inhumane and degrading treatment. I propose, instead of Without prejudice, as my colleague Mr Gasparri said, to all the crimes already provided for in the penal code, which have been applied, for example, in the case of police intervention in Genoa (and, rightly, also applied with severity, if crimes have been detected on that occasion), we take a further step: we introduce penalties until life imprisonment for a case that, however, must be well determined. In my opinion, then, it is reasonable to say that, if the fact is committed through more conduct and involves inhumane and degrading treatment for the dignity of the person, you get to life. But that is what we must strike at. If, on the other hand, we put ourselves into the disjunctive, we go to strike, with very severe penalties, a reality that does not put together the more conducted and the inhumane and degrading treatment. Even for the threats, we come to simply hit verbal expressions that are made, for example, against a defendant. Think of some situations that we see in the movies, but not only there, when there is a need to press - always legally, for the love of God - with a closed interrogation, that maybe lasts hours, a person arrested to save other people: in this case, are we threatened? I wonder, because if then there is no physical injury, no physical treatment, but only a denounced psychic trauma, I also know that it will be the psychologists and psychiatrists who will determine if the complainant actually lies and has invented a psychic trauma that he has not had, but I remind those who are fond of the fight against organized crime, especially the one that has the means to trigger these mechanisms, to be careful not to give a gift precisely to that crime, not to give them a very effective instrument of reaction against the Police, the Carabinieri and the magistrates. I believe that, when we introduce this crime, it is good to define its boundaries. Let us not repeat for the umpteenth time the mistake we made for the road murder, where, in wanting to hit a certain behavior, that of the drunk driver, the one who drives under the influence of substances or who drives by doing the pirate of the road, which we all agreed on, we then went to hit the mother of the family who has the misfortune of having an accident. (Followed by Mr Giovanardi) So let us write the crime of torture in such a way that criminals who are guilty of this terrible crime are struck and not in such a way as to strike people who have absolutely nothing to do with torture.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u20	Mr President, I would like to make a brief comment on Amendment No 1,800/12, which we proposed to amend the amendment tabled by the rapporteurs by including a final amendment to Article 613-a. The rapporteurs propose better specifying the regulatory scope of the provision of torture, distinguishing between two cases. The first is whether the fact is committed with violence or threats and in this case it must be made up of more conduct; in the second case, it is enough even a conduct if it involves inhumane and degrading treatment for the dignity of the person. Our amendment is very simple and envisages replacing the adverb with the conjunction with the objective of specifying more precisely the crime of torture. To date, since reading Article 613 bis, there may be difficulties in distinguishing the crime of torture from crimes of injury, violence or threat. There are already cases of crime for the above-mentioned conducts and we believe that, in order to specify more precisely, the crime of torture must take shape when there are violence or threats, that for us must be in more conduct and not in a single instant act, with all that follows, that is that acute physical suffering or a verifiable psychic trauma. In addition, we believe that the constituent elements of the crime should also include facts that involve inhumane and degrading treatment for the dignity of the person. This - I repeat - to better specify the scope of the standard and to eliminate any doubts that might arise about its interpretation. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u21	The remaining sub-amendments are described. I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the sub-amendments presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u22	Mr President, with regard to the sub-amendments, I make an invitation to withdraw, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u23	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u24	Amendment 1,213 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,214. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,214, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,215, 1,216 and 1,217 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,218, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,219 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,220.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u27	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I shall vote in favour of this amendment, as in the case of the previous one, despite the fact that on two amendments to my first signature there is an indication that they have been withdrawn, not withdrawn by me personally, but by the legislative office of the Group to which I belonged at the time. I shall vote in favour of this amendment, because the configuration of the psychological element is absolutely outside any text of international standard. There is no such possibility in any convention. The UN Convention signed in New York on 10 December 1984 merely speaks of acute physical or mental suffering. If we want, we can put "psychics" even in the diversity of the concept. But the expression "verifiable psychic trauma" inserts a connotation that will hardly ever be proven in a court of law. If we want to completely blow the possibility of identifying these facts and, above all, of punishing them, we also vote against this amendment: the verifiable psychic trauma will never be able to say how it can be actually verified. [[Applause from Senator Manconi).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u28	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,220, tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,221.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u31	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of this amendment, for the reasons set out earlier by Senator Casson, namely that we believe that the word "verifiable" is not only very wrong, but also has exactly the effect that he has said, namely a concrete impossibility to prove in court that it is possible to verify it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u32	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,221 tabled by Senators Cappelletti and Buccarella. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,222 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,223 tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,224, which is essentially the same as Amendments 1,225 and 1,226.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u35	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote on these amendments, which increase the minimum sentence from three to four years. I would like to stress how we are really building the Pilates dimension of the bill for the introduction of the torture crime. In fact, with one hand he puts on and with the other he takes off. With one hand you put numbers, which are always very effective when you want to talk to the people, to say: We have introduced the crime of torture, we are punishing it, of course. With the other hand instead it is removed, because they take away all the tools to do what would instead be a clear, fair and clear path of recognition of the responsibilities in facts that unfortunately too many times have concerned our society and above all lack the certainty of a path in which we can truly identify the responsibility. This is really an unbearable Pilatesque dimension, it's a sort of small big scam, depending on the sensitivity of each one, so we increase the pain. Since it is now an entire legislature in which we see that there is an increase in penalties, to which neither a better functioning of justice nor a greater respect for legality corresponds, I think it is really time to say "no." And I'm gonna say that "no."
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u38	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the rapporteurs and the majority, in order to give a reading of what is being done in this House, should explain why we move from a sentence of three to ten years to a sentence of four to ten years. I say this because, in the past reading, the Senate has voted almost unanimously the words "three to ten years." Then the House changed it with... from four to ten years old. Everyone in the Commission, despite the fact that there was a different penalty, agreed to maintain the outcome of the Senate vote. Now again we move on to the words "four to ten years." Shall we give an explanation? Do we want to say why this change is being made? In the Commission I have adapted to the request of the rapporteurs themselves to respect the majority's indications and to maintain the Senate's text. We have agreed to this request. Now what is the reason why the rule has changed? Is there a problem within the majority? Is there any indication from the outside? We can no longer understand and I do not think that anyone who reads Parliament's work will be able to see why this change is being made.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u41	Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. Mr President, since it is not elegant to pretend not to understand when you are called into question, I would like to point out that the proposal is contained in an amendment by the rapporteurs, as well as in an amendment by Senator Lumia at first signature and in an amendment by Senator Buccarella. So these are three amendments. To answer Senator Caliendo, if we did not do so, the minimum penalty for serious personal injury would be even greater than the minimum penalty for serious personal injury if it were a result of torture: it would be a clear legal error. It therefore takes an increase in the minimum to ensure that at least the minimum penalty is equalized; then the maximum is differentiated, because the maximum of the serious personal injuries resulting from torture will in any case be greater than the very serious personal injuries regardless of torture.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u42	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,224 tabled by the rapporteurs, which is essentially identical to amendments 1,225, tabled by Senator Lumia and other senators, and 1,226 tabled by Senators Buccarella and Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,227 to 1,231 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,800/1, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,800/2, tabled by Senator Casson and other senators, identical to amendment 1,800/3, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,800/4, which is identical to Amendment No 1,800/5.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u45	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, sub-amendment 1,800/4 is a proposal for a fallback which, however, would like to bring the text of the bill against torture back to our examination of the crisms of international law. Leaving this rule in place and the reference to the fact made by means of several conducts is first of all to violate the decision of the Senate of a few months ago, which referred to the word "reiterate". Here they even become more conducted, therefore, the situation is even worse, because while the "reiterate" referred to serious violence and threats, here they would even require more conduct, therefore referring to the whole of the criminal behavior, as it is contested. Such a situation is not required by any international convention and would constitute a violation of international law, to which Italy had voluntarily adapted by ratifying the Treaties.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u48	Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. Mr President, I would have gladly responded to all the comments, but there is one aspect that is being repeated here. I use the past participle of the verb "reiterare" not by chance, because this is the point of the question. It is said that we have proposed, through the expression "more conducted" a question already implied by the use of the past participle of the verb to repeat. In this regard, I would like to point out two circumstances. Firstly, in the concept of repeating, a temporal fact is involved, i.e. it means that the conduct has to be carried out substantially in more times. As I said in the debate last July, torture would become - and the amendment was mine - a sort of habitual crime. The most conducted, however, are only a given quantity, it does not necessarily involve time in the expression "more conducted" which is then frequently used in the penal code, even through the equivalent expressions "more actions" or "more omissions." I would also like to speak on another question raised by Senator Casson for a reason of clarity, but also to keep it on the record. We have not built an objective condition of criminality because, of course, if we had done so, we would have made a mistake, since the objective condition of criminality escapes the dole, it is not part of the dole. We used a conditional expression, that is, the period is built as if it were a conditional expression, but it is clear that that is a constituent component of the crime. Moreover - and here I am referring to the considerations, which are correct in general but which are not particularly relevant to me, of Senator Casson - it must be explained whether these are intrinsic or extrinsic conditions. Now, the extrinsic conditions do not exist, because they are constituent components of the crime fact as I said. So here there is no objective condition of criminality, there is a constituent component of the fact of crime expressed in the forms of a conditional period as the Italian language obviously allows to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u49	I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,800/4, tabled by Senator Casson and other senators, identical to amendment 1,800/5, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,800/6.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u52	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, Amendment 1,800/6 concerns a very simple issue. I take the view of a simple citizen and ask you: what does that "more" mean? That if I use the matraque, that is the famous baton, isn't that enough? Do I have to use a pin, too? Ladies and gentlemen, when you do this kind of sophism, the reason is simple: you want to hide a intention. The intention is to defuse the crime of torture. Take responsibility for it. I ask the Senate, with freedom of conscience, to vote in favour of this amendment. The expression "more conducted" is a way to make the discussion of what is or is not torture very complicated in court.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u55	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am voting against this amendment. I would like to say, however, to Senator Mineo, who is also an authoritative journalist: if the word "more" is removed from the expression "more" the word "more" would be "through" the text; therefore, if this amendment were adopted - and I almost wish to vote on it - the law would be nullified. In fact: "through pipelines" what does it mean? The expression "more conductive" makes sense, but "through conductive" seems to refer to the pipes of the pipes. I think it's wrong from a lexical point of view. I will vote against this amendment, however, even if, who knows, Mr Calderoli, if he were not presiding, would do one of his 'thinks'! [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u56	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,800/6, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,800/7, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,800/8, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,800/9, tabled by Senator Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,800/10, tabled by Senator Mineo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,800/11, tabled by Senator Giovanardi, identical to amendment 1,800/12, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,800/13, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,800/14, which is identical to Amendments Nos 1,800/15 and 1,800/16.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u59	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I rise in an explanation of vote on Amendment 1,800/14 and on the meaning of the replacement of the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" by the word "e" In order to keep this in mind in the Minutes of the sitting, I would like to mention the texts of all the international conventions on this point, starting in 1952. The first, dating back to 1952, after recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 3 refers, literally, to inhuman and degrading treatments. The subsequent International Convention, signed in New York on 10 December 1984, which is the main one on which we are based, refers to inhuman or degrading treatments even in the title and - then - in the premises and throughout the text. This is also the case in subsequent international conventions. For example, the one voted in Strasbourg on 26 November 1987 already refers to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishments, and in the circumstances it recalls Article 3 of the 1952 Convention, which referred to inhuman or degrading treatment, and in another part of the premise it still refers to this disjunction. I close this review of international conventions and international legal obligations for the Italian State, recalling that in Article 21 of the 1987 Convention referred to above there is a rule referring to the fact that no reservation is allowed to the provisions of this Convention. This means that, if this Convention is ratified, it must be accepted as set out. Right now, the Senate is proving exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u62	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to say that on amendments 1,800/11 and 1,800/12 the vote of the Lega Nord Group was in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u65	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, we have already said with reference to the conjunction with regard to inhuman and degrading treatment of the dignity of the person. I would like to point out to the rapporteurs and to the Government that the case law, including the European courts, is well known, which reminds us that inhuman treatment usually can only be degrading to the dignity of the person. However, in view of the letter of the international treaties last recalled by my colleague Mr Casson and - I would add - also of the recent experience that the majority had to live, and probably also endure, at communicative level with reference to what happened to the House of Deputies during the examination of the measure on self-defense, perhaps it will not be easy then to explain why the majority wanted to keep the text as formulated. Even for the benefit of the majority, with a gesture of generosity, I invite you to rethink the opinion against it and to change the text, so that the treatments that may be or inhuman or degrading to the dignity of the person are individually and alternately punishable. Otherwise, if it were true the principle - certainly defensible one tomorrow in front of the classrooms of justice - that "inhuman" can be even "degrading", have the courage to delete the definition "degrading" and keep only that of "inhuman". We are not at all convinced of this, so we are calling for a further, last call for these amendments, even at the signing of the 5 Star Movement, to be able to have the vote in favour of the House, with a consideration, which has been recalled, also concerning the communication difficulties that will have to be faced in the future as a result of the vote we are about to give.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u68	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am personally voting in favour of this amendment, because it was one of the contents of amendment 1,800/18 which was declared inadmissible and for the reasons I share regarding the international aspects that were well illustrated by Senator Casson. I should like to take advantage of this, if there is any willingness from one of the signatories, in order to ask for my signature to be added to the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Casson, Senator Orellana.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u71	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I agree with the reasons set out by Senator Buccarella and, of course, those of the presenter of the amendment, although I understand that in the text a course of violent action also involves the degradation of the person who is the victim of it, in any case the replacement of the particle of conjunction with that of disjunction, seems to me to be an important, relevant and useful clarification; otherwise we rely on the interpretation of the judges the condition for which, in order to constitute the conduct of crime, both conditions are necessary, that is, the violence and the consequence of the degradation of the human person. I therefore request, on behalf of my Group, that we endorse Amendment No 1,800/14 and vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u72	The Presidency took note of the signing of amendment 1,800/14 by the ALA-SCLP Group. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,800/14, tabled by Senator Casson and other senators, identical to amendments 1,800/15, tabled by Senator Mineo and other senators, and 1,800/16, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,800/17, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,800/18 is inadmissible. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,800/19, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,800/20, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,800/21 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,800.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u75	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I come back to the point I just mentioned in my first speech on the subject this afternoon, partly because there has been a speech by the President of the Commission, the rapporteur, on this measure, on the fact that it is a condition of criminality. Without wanting to go down in detail in technical matters, I simply wanted to recall that the objective conditions of criminality which are provided for by the penal code in Article 44 are generally defined by doctrine as a complex legal situation, characterized by a contemporary presence of state punitive power and the situation of subjection to the penalty of the deed. In order for this complex situation to occur, there must be the simultaneous presence of three elements: the first, of course, concerns the realization of a crime, which is what we have already mentioned (the "anyone" who constitutes the first part of the text as approved by the Commission Justice); the second, the non-absistence of personal causes of non-penalty; the third, the possible existence, precisely, of objective conditions of punishableness covered in the present abstract as well as in the case in question. While from a dogmatic point of view, in the face of a thesis that considers, as President D'Ascola said, these elements as complementary to the typical fact of crime (future and uncertain and not entangled by a necessary psychological bond with the author, nor by a necessary etiological link with his conduct), the prevailing doctrine, as well as the jurisprudence, consider that these do not enter instead to be part of the typical fact of crime but condition only the punishableness. This already happens in other situations, whether they are extrinsic or intrinsic conditions. I refer, for example, to other offences: the public scandal that occurs in the case of the incest crime (Article 564 of the Criminal Code); the case of the danger of illness in the abuse of the means of correction, as referred to in Article 571. In the face of these situations we find ourselves in a situation of punishableness. If these situations do not occur, it will not be possible to ascertain the crime and, above all, to punish the person who may be found guilty of the crime already committed. That is the situation that will take place, which is why I shall be voting against the rapporteur's amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u76	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,800 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.40, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,232 tabled by Senator Di Maggio. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Gasparri and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 1,233. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,234, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario, until the words "the following." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,235, 1,236 and 1,237 are therefore not included. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,238 tabled by Senator Bruni. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,801/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u79	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, intellectually speaking, I must say that this sub-amendment is not the fruit of my bag; I did not write it, but it is due to a clever suggestion made by an authoritative majority member, who was not only accepted by the rapporteurs but also appreciated by the whole majority. If you go to read amendment 1,801 this does not say anything because, by removing the suggestion - which came from the same majority - of suffering, however further, the amendment of the rapporteurs simply leaves the judge the assessment whether or not it is legitimate private measures. A criminal law describes behavior that then becomes a crime. And what is the behavior that becomes a crime? The further suffering that arises from the execution of legitimate measures privatising personal freedom. I do not have to ask you to vote on it, but I must ask you to reflect on this proposal, because it was the result of a strong intelligence of your Group, the Democratic Party, that is, a person prepared from a technical-legal point of view that we appreciate. That is why we have retabled it as a sub-amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u80	I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government if they confirm their previous opinion on the sub-amendments in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u81	Yes, Mr President, I confirm the call for withdrawal or against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u82	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur's opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u85	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, if there is any need (but I do not think there is) I am speaking in relation to what Senator Caliendo has said. The amendment tabled by the rapporteurs is tamquam non esset: it is emptied, without content that must be in a law; it does not take away and does not put. I could vote for it or not, but my professional dignity requires me to tell my Group not to vote for this amendment, not because not voting for it achieves some result, but because voting for it does not achieve any result. We do something worthless and I in my life have never done anything worthless and I suggest that my group colleagues do not do it, as the rapporteurs have thought.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u88	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, reading the text of sub-amendment 1,801/1 at the first signature of Senator Caliendo and referring it to the rapporteur's amendment 1,801, I confess that I have some concerns and would ask them and the Commission President himself to pay attention. I believe that both texts, both the rapporteur's amendment and the Caliendo sub-amendment, are monks, because in both cases there is reference to the implementation of legitimate private or limited rights measures. In the case of the rapporteur's amendment, the suffering resulting from the execution of a private or limited measure of rights is tout court crimina; in the case of amendment 1,801/1, further suffering would be relevant for the purposes of torture. I said that both texts are monks because in both cases I believe that the concept expressed is the same: in fact, I wonder what suffering must be ultroneal. I therefore think that perhaps a reflection should be made on the text, and in particular that we should reflect not so much on the word "further" and on its absence, but on the legitimate execution of the private and limiting measures of rights; in fact, what criminalises suffering is not execution itself, but legitimate execution. If in the context of legitimate execution one were to exceed, if we do not refer to the legitimacy of execution, that suffering would not have the title to be criticized. These were the concerns that I wanted to represent to the rapporteurs and the President in an uncompromising cooperation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u91	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, just by hanging up to what Senator Palma has just said, he is helping sub-amendment 1,801/7, in which, aware of the possible vulnus of the text of the rapporteur's amendment, we have thought about correcting this point exactly. In short, ladies and gentlemen, I am referring, for example, to an order of arrest, perhaps to be carried out during a demonstration, in a situation of concitement, which certainly puts also the forces of public security in a situation of maximum attention, prudence and control even nervous; an interdictive measure of personal freedom can safely be legitimate, but what may not be legitimate is the execution of that measure. In the abstract I can also arrest and handcuff a person and, while I do, I can inflict acute psychological suffering or other types of treatment that are unhuman or otherwise degrading to the personality, apparently in perfect respect of the measure arranged. What must be checked and whose legitimacy we should ascertain is the enforcement of the measure (which may be the order of a judge or a provision of a public security authority, which we want to assume are legitimate, without prejudice to judicial remedies to oppose it even later). It is the execution of the measure that must be done in a legitimate way otherwise we risk making a hole in the water. Sub-amendment 1.801/7 fills this vulnerability of the text which may have escaped the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u92	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education, Raffaele Pucci, Nocera Inferiore, in the province of Salerno, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u93	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,801/1, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 1,801/2, tabled by Senator Mineo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Casson and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,801/3. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,801/4, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,801/5, tabled by Senator Mineo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senators Stefani and Centinario to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.801/6. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,801/7, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,801/8, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,801. He asked the government representative to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u94	Mr President, the Government would propose a rewording of amendment 1,801, which reads: The preceding paragraphs shall not apply if the suffering caused solely results from the proper execution of legitimate private or restrictive measures of the freedom and rights of the person concerned.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u95	Sometimes there is some confusion between the speakers and the government. The Government cannot reformulate the rapporteur's amendments; it can express a favourable opinion conditional on a reformulation. After that, the Presidency considers itself acceptable, whether it is different or not; there is one procedural aspect on which the Presidency reserves the right.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u98	Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. Mr President, I would like to say the following: these words all seem to me to be essentially equivalent, so that, with regard to the previous amendments, a favourable opinion could have been expressed, with reference to a possible rewording of them. Senator Palma's remarks are also correct, in the part where he says that execution must be legitimate and not order. However, there is also a problem of the legitimacy of the order, because the official public, according to a general principle present in the code, cannot control the substantive legitimacy of the order, because it cannot express a union on the deservingness of a protective custody order. However, he may rule on its formal legitimacy, whenever it is issued by an incompetent body to issue it. It is true what has been said about the fact that execution must be legitimate, but it is also true that there is a problem of legitimacy, relating to the fact that the order may have been issued by an incompetent subject. At that point, the public officer cannot avoid responsibility, because of course he cannot carry out an order issued by an incompetent person to do so. There is therefore a profile of legitimacy also in terms of the evaluation of the public officer, who would possibly execute an order issued by an incompetent authority. However, these problems must also be interfaced with amendment 1,232, signed by Senator Di Maggio, to whom we gave a favourable opinion (and not by chance: no one can be allowed to give a favourable opinion lightly), which introduces another element into the text. Torture presupposes, however, an action of the official who has abused the powers or acted in violation of the duties. Therefore we have already inserted a nucleus of illegality-illicenity, which concerns the phase of execution. With regard to Senator Palma's remark - the rapporteur must, of course, be very careful about all the observations and apologise to the House if anything has escaped - it seemed to me, however, that this important phase had already been involved in amendment 1,232. Therefore, I think it was important to include in the text an assessment of the illegality of the execution of an illegitimate order, because it was issued by an incompetent authority. It was therefore considered the aspect made present by Senator Palma, as well as the aspect of a formally illegitimate order and therefore tradeable by the public official. That is therefore the answer which the rapporteur feels to give. To tell the truth, then, I confess that if I were to say that some of these formulas are better than the others, I would lie to the House, because it seems to me that they all say the same thing. I find it difficult to classify or classify these formulations, because I think they all say the same thing, but it is strengthened by Senator Di Maggio's amendment 1.232. It must be clear and remain in the documents, that with that amendment we have removed the reference to having acted in the performance of the functions typical of the public office or of the public service, because there is no doubt that those who act with abuse of the powers or in violation of the duties are in the exercise of the public functions they carry out. It was therefore not necessary to retain that part of the old text, because the abuse of powers or the violation of duties inevitably implies that the subject acts in the exercise of these typical functions. This is therefore not a shortcoming in the text, but this concept is inevitably implied by the expression "abuse of powers" or in violation of duties. The rapporteur is therefore embarrassed, because it seems to me that the various proposals all say the same thing. PRESIDENT. - The debate is He asked the government representative to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u99	Mr President, I support the original text of the amendment proposed by the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u100	So the government did not convince the rapporteur, but the rapporteur convinced the Government and so the original text is maintained.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u103	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we had already spoken with Senator D'Ascola about my previous speech and I share all the comments that Senator D'Ascola has made. Of course, the adoption of Senator Di Maggio's amendment completely overcomes the problem posed. In fact, by means of amendment 1,232 we are hitting substantial illegality, while by means of the rapporteur's amendment we are hitting formal illegality. I also note, with some satisfaction, that the Government has withdrawn the rewording it had proposed. However, I would like to point out to the Government that this proposal was technically wrong. As we are talking about public officials, the reference paragraph of article 613- bis of the penal code is the second and we cannot speak of an activity proper to the public official or similar figures with reference to the first paragraph, which instead represents exclusively a case of common law. I say this to the Government clearly without any polemic desire, but only so that in the future the legislative offices can pay more attention to what they write. 18.16 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u104	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u106	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, the Government has withdrawn its proposal for reformulation, which, in fact, technically, as President Palma has said, was rather disconnected from the previous amendments and from the draft law. I will not vote for amendment 1,801, because I think it is absolutely useless in the context of the criminal code, which is a general part of it. Given that there are already rules which, from a substantive point of view, recognise the non-penalty for the exercise of a right or the fulfilment of a duty, as in the present case, and after the adoption of the amendment by Senator Di Maggio, I believe that this amendment is absolutely ultra-roneous.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u109	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to say that we too believe that amendment 1,801 is useless, clearly aimed at reassuring some of the police forces or some of their unions, who are concerned - I think unnecessarily - and therefore must be reassured by this rule, of which I doubt it will be possible to find a trace of practical application tomorrow. In any case, even for my own sake - even if the government is now distracted - I would like to understand whether we are voting on the amendment in its original wording or as amended by the Government. It's not very clear to me. I ask the President to call the government, because we need this clarification. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We are voting on the original text of the amendment. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Taking note that the Government's will is to maintain the original text, in addition to the observation on the alleged uselessness of the provision, there remain, in my view, doubts also about the futility in the face of the amendment of Senator Di Maggio 1,232, already approved, always with reference to what has been observed before. The risk that the execution of a private or limited measure of rights can be done by abuse of powers or in violation of duties inherent in function and service does not leave us quiet; tomorrow may not be punished for the execution of an apparently legitimate measure, because it comes from the authority that can issue it, but which, in the execution mode, harms the legal good that the crime of torture wants to protect. Furthermore, if I may make one last remark (although it is useless at this point because the text remains the same), I would like to point out that extending the text as reworded to the first paragraph could probably find a reason for it. In fact, since this also concerns those in charge of public service - and here we do not think of the police forces, but of the medical staff, nurses or other personnel involved in the care or control of other people - perhaps it made sense to extend that formula also to the first paragraph. In any case, we shall abstain from voting on Amendment 1,801 as it is unnecessary.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u112	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, we will vote against the rapporteur's amendment 1,801 because we have the feeling that apparently - as Senator Buccarella said now and just now Senator Casson - it is an unnecessary, pleonastic amendment, which actually adds nothing to what we are discussing. However, from our point of view it is only theoretically a pleonastic one, because instead - and I am sorry to say so - it is as if there was a permanent attempt to weaken the text - and as we know, it has already been largely depowered over all these months - just as we would have hoped it would come out of this House. In short, it is as if the universal principles of the Convention were being weakened even further, and the adoption of this amendment unfortunately even further distances the text from what we would have liked. Therefore, we are voting absolutely against - I insist - because this amendment seems merely to us to be a pleonastic one, because it weakens the sense of the law that we have to vote on.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u115	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I too am voting against, because I believe that amendment 1,801 is not a pleonastic one, but is quite wrong. I am opposed because I believe that you can never imagine imposing different penalties when you act cruelly. The first paragraph remains the one in which we talk about violence, serious threats or anyone who acts cruelly. It follows that if the person in charge of public service acts in this way acting in a legitimate way, we suppose at the time of an arrest or at the time when the prison police conduct a prisoner in prison, subject to a certain type of penalty; instead, if they act in such a way at other times, subject to other kind of penalty. I remember that we are talking about acting cruelly and the latter cannot be subject to different assessments. I can understand other situations, i.e. when it comes to the disabled defense or serious threats, which are merely verbal violence, but when it comes to cruelty, I believe that it is always unacceptable and in any case, and it deserves the maximum of the sentence, so from five to twelve years. Here, on the other hand, a sentence of three to ten years is envisaged and in another case, five to twelve years. No, under no circumstances can a person, even if he has legitimate reasons for intervening on another person, act in this sense. Therefore, in my opinion, this amendment is not a pleonastic one, but we are underestimating something profoundly wrong.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u116	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,801 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,239 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,240, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,241 tabled by Senators Manconi and Lo Giudice. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.242, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,243 tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.244 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,245, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario, until the words "ad anni" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,246 to 1,252 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,253 tabled by Senators Buccarella and Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.254 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator De Cristofaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.254 (text 2)/200, tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,254 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u119	Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. Madam President, I am speaking on a formal matter. Amendment 1.254 (text 2) lacks the word "concretely" between the words "mode" and "suitable." This adverb was present in the previous dossier and is also present in the subsequent amendment to the first signature of Senators Lumia and Casson, which was initially the same as the rapporteur's amendment 1.254. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator D'Ascola, but you don't understand what you're saying. Could you speak closer to the microphone? Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. The rapporteur notes that, in the text of amendment 1.254 (text 2) of the rapporteurs, there is no "concrete" adverb, which was initially between the words "mode" and "suitable." The old dossier of amendments, before the submission of sub-amendments, gives proof of this, because there was the adverb "concretely" there. It must therefore be considered that the rapporteur's amendment contains the expression "in a practical way" where the text contained here is "in an appropriate way."
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u122	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, in addition to the process of this amendment, as described by President D'Ascola, it would perhaps be appropriate for the rapporteurs to withdraw amendment 1,254 (text 2) and vote directly on amendment 1,255, signed by Senator Lumia and other senators, which clearly represents what President D'Ascola has just said.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u123	The other solution is to vote for them together. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Formally they're different.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u126	Mr D'Ascola, rapporteur. I withdraw amendment 1,254 (text 2), to vote only on the following.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u127	You cannot withdraw it, because we have already voted on its sub-amendments. We can return to the original text of the amendment, identical to that of amendment 1,255, so that they can be put to the vote together, also in order to meet the solution proposed by Senator Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u130	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, I would like to withdraw my signature from Amendment 1,255.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u131	The Presidency takes note of this. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,254 tabled by the rapporteurs, identical to amendment 1,255 tabled by Senator Lumia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,256, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario, up to the words "up to". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1.257 are therefore not included. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,258, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario, up to the word "from". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,259 to 1,262 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Article 2 is identical to Article 2 of the text approved by the Senate. Let us move on to Amendment 2.0,200, which I would ask the presenter to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u132	Madam President, all the work we are doing, which is already a downward compromise, as we have spoken on essential elements of this case, is likely to be further frustrated by too short a time limit. Let us remember that every year, and even now, 130,000 criminal trials in our country are extinguished by prescription: they are 400 proceedings per day. We don't even want the 4th 21st to be a trial for the crime of torture. That is why we have tabled amendment 2.0.200 which basically doubles the limitation period. If the prescription were to be too short, the object and purpose of the Convention itself against Torture would clearly be defeated, as Amnesty International and Antigone claim.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u133	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u134	Madam President, I would ask the presenter to withdraw amendment 2.0.200, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u135	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u136	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.0,200. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0,200, tabled by Senator Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would remind you that Article 3 introduced by the House of Deputies has been deleted by the Commission. We now come to the examination of Article 3 of the text proposed by the Commission, corresponding to Article 4 of the text approved by the House of Deputies, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u137	Madam President, I call on the authors to withdraw all the amendments tabled in Article 3, otherwise the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u138	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u139	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,200, which is identical to Amendments 3,301 and 3,202. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,200, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators, identical to amendments 3,301, tabled by Senator Di Maggio, and 3,202, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,203 tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 3.204, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario, until the words "yes" can be deduced. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 3,205 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,206 tabled by Senator Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,207, tabled by Senator Bruni, identical to Amendment 3,308, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinaio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3,209, tabled by Senators Stefani and Centinario. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.210, tabled by Senator Di Maggio. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 4 of the text proposed by the Commission, which corresponds to Article 5 of the text approved by the House of Deputies, on which amendments have been tabled which I call on the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u140	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to explain the deletion of Article 4 to remind you that I have tabled a number of deleted amendments to the various articles, also in relation to the state of the debate when we suspended the examination of the measure. I would like to remind you that - the beginning of the session has emphasized it - when months ago we discussed the provision that - it is supported - must be launched because the ratification of an international convention is indispensable, the abolition of the word "reiterate" created a short circuit. The problem has been partly overcome today by the adoption of some amendments which have somehow clarified the scope of the rule. We are aware, however, that many supporters of this measure have supported it not already in homage and respect for international conventions, but almost as a rule that should signal a distrust of the police forces. It is not by chance that the draft law in question has sometimes marched in parallel with another completely different provision of tenor. I am referring to the issue of the famous identification codes and the amendment which President Torrisi declared inadmissible during the examination of a recent measure. What I want to say is that, although there is often the eulogy, right, of the police forces engaged on 1,000 sides - I do not have to remember it here and stress it - but then, at the moment of need, there is an over-confidence - I would not like to say animosity, but on the part of someone perhaps yes - towards the police forces. The identification code, i.e. the number on the suit or helmet, is intended to make it easier not to identify, but to make the claim. The crime of torture is sometimes conceived as an act of preventive mistrust against the police. For this reason the procedure of the measure was blocked months ago. Today the bill has resumed its path, but it leaves us - at least some of us - very perplexed. If anyone is wary of the police force, others have every right to be wary of those who distrust, if you will allow me the sentence. So we're wary of the police. This is a critical point of merit which we have made on various points and which has also led the rapporteurs, with the prediction of the most conducted and with the approval of Senator Di Maggio's amendment on the role of the official public, to give a less suspicious configuration of this measure, which however leaves me puzzled. For this reason, I have tabled deleterious amendments to the various articles, which signalled an inconvenience to the measure and not already because those who are against this law are in favour of torture. We said, on the occasion of the previous debate, that the crimes of all kinds, which before also Senator Giovanardi I listed (the bullies, the violence, the harassment, the injuries), already today sanction everything that a member of the police force should, in a bad case, carry out. In practice, there have been judgments against some of the police officers that some of us have sometimes seen with suffering, and that someone may even consider unfair, but this is not the time or place to open this debate. The improvement that is under way, if completed, is welcome, but it is not enough because, dear President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not the rules, but those who apply them, having often seen a bad attitude towards the police forces. The deleterious amendment to Article 4 which I have tabled is also in this spirit and I maintain it, even though I demand the adoption of certain amendments as a result of the pause for reflection. Sometimes, suspending the examination of a misguided or mutilated measure by a wrong amendment can lead to better reflection, partly because Parliament is not a place where piecework is done, according to how many laws are passed in a week. Sometimes, however, it is better not to pass a bad law and think about it or not to approve it at all or in any case to contain the damage. This is the spirit in which we took part in the debate today in this House and also during the pauses, which have been a reflection of which I also give to my colleagues from various parliamentary groups and to the Government. There was reflection in the pause, and then I confirm in any case my deleterious amendment to Article 4, which is part of the overall reflection that I think has been clear in this House and outside the Chamber to those who follow the measure with concern. What must be clear, ladies and gentlemen, is that the message to the police that we do not trust them and we want them by definition on the stand of the accused does not start from the Senate Chamber or, in any case, from Parliament. This can't be. Then bullies and violence must be struck and punished - for goodness' sake - and no one is exempted from the law. In the view of many of us, there were already more than adequate rules to punish bullies and violence. If you want to add another one because there is an international convention, at least it is better than it appeared. I continue to be wary of mistrust and trust the police. [[Applause from the FI and LAG groups (DI, Id, GS, M, MPL, RI, E-E).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u141	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u142	Madam President, on all the amendments to Article 4, with the exception of amendment 4.202, on which the opinion is in favour, I call on the authors to withdraw, otherwise the opinion is against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u143	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u144	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4,200. PETROCELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,200, tabled by Senator Gasparri and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 4.201 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.202.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u147	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, what does any form of immunity mean in our system? Do we have an amnesty? It's got nothing to do with it. I am surprised that the Government gave a favourable opinion on the replacement of a term that was not only approved by the Senate, but was also confirmed in the House. What does it mean that no form of immunity is It really seems like a crazy situation to me. I would ask Senator Lumia to reconsider and withdraw the amendment in title, even though the Government has given a favourable opinion, because it does not stand.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u148	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u150	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I believe Senator Caliendo is right. What does "some form of immunity" mean? Are you sure that this all-embracing term is in line with international law and even with the obligations arising from internal law? Madam President, since when you vote you have to be sure of what you vote on, I would ask the rapporteur for the amendment, namely Senator Lumia - so that I can make my decision precisely - to what immunity he refers to. I believe that saying that no form of immunity is recognized is a form of laziness, so the colleague can safely specify the types of immunity that cannot be opposed in such a situation. Then, if you want to vote on it, vote on it, but vote on something that prima facie does not seem to have a great legal sense.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u153	LUMIA (PD). Madam President, in our code we have different forms of immunity, as well as in international law: on all, military immunity, which is easily explained.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u155	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u156	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, I would like to add a few words to what Senator Lumia has said. I remember that in Latin America there have been very serious episodes of torture and for some of them it has also been carried out in Italy on the basis of international procedural norms. In those cases there were rules to protect the military, first coupists and then went to the government - in Argentina in particular - which gave coverage using different expressions. Since different expressions are also used in the international straight - I remember that, for example, in Latin America it is said that the military holds a hero, has a particular forum - specifying any form of immunity means referring to all forms of immunity (substantial and procedural) that can exist within any order. It's a closing and cover rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u157	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.202, tabled by Senator Lumia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 4,203 and 4,204 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Articles 5 and 6 are identical to Articles 5 and 6 of the text approved by the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u160	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Madam President, considering that the afternoon's work has been productive and given the importance of the measure, so as not to make explanations of vote in series A and in series B, the request that I put to the House is to postpone the explanations of vote until tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u161	As no comments are made, Senator Calderoli's request is accepted. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u164	Mr Pagliari (PD). Madam President, I take the floor because unfortunately, these days, my city is in the honour of the media and journalistic chronicles. I do this not only to claim that first of all Parma is made of honest people, but also to claim the absolute dignity and quality of the university and our health system. Unfortunately, the irresponsibility of some people, beyond the investigations that are put back to the judiciary, has given an absolutely undeserved blow to the image of the University of Parma and the health system. Most of the people who work in these institutions are of absolute honesty and professionalism and made the quality and good name, both of the university and of the health system. I believe that I must bear witness to this in this House, even in future memory of an affair which, politically speaking, has clear keys to reading that are linked to those centres of power that in various seasons, like the last in the centre of the right, have thought of making Parma a place of exploitation, of customers and of corruption. Unfortunately, I believe that this affair is part of that strand, which is the residue of that season that brought into the health system, but also in that of socio-economic relations, an excess of customers, of ease with respect to legality and a forgetfulness of the general interest. Parma and its citizens do not want this and I believe that they will prove that they can come out of this situation with the dignity with which they have managed their own image and community in time and to date. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Dirindin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u167	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to have to come back to a sad affair, involving 16 children from a small town in the Province of Cosenza. Eventually they can only be said that they are guilty of being children of parents who have chosen for them a school of the obligation different from that present in their country, which offered only two multiple classes to attend. These 16 children are forced to make their families support even for the year to come the burden of transport at the Municipality of Amantea, scholastically closer. The cost turns out to be, on the basis of what the municipal administration has made known to the committee of the parents, of 35,000 euros annually to which are added ulterior 3,000 euros for maintenance expenses, without - be careful - no contest to the expense from the communal agency and to guarantee in advance regarding the monthly expiration, because the car rental company, that should guarantee the service, almost distrust of these families. Since these are children who are still at the age of the obligation, without recalling regional law No 27 of 8 May 1985, or the decree of the President of the Republic No 616 of 24 July 1977 (Articles 42 to 45), I wonder whether we should go on with a lawsuit that in the eyes of many seems to be very childish, childish. The children, treated as alleged culprits, are only victims, because further tensions result in economic damage for families that have very low ISEE. All this seems to me worthy of attention from the institutions. I myself have involved the prefecture of Cosenza, which has started a table, but it is known that the tables are perhaps used to agree on how to manage SPRAR, CARA or CAS. They do not, however, serve to arrive at solutions of real problems for the citizens of Serra d'Aiello who - I remember between the lines - lately also have problems with drinking water, because often not even that can be offered in the land of Calabria. [[Applause from Senator Lucidi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u170	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, I would like to ask some questions about the issue of motorway concessions on which the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport has a total rubber wall. He gave some answers to some purely formal questions without answering the questions. He said something in this House, but he did not answer most of the questions addressed to some people he did not answer at all. I am referring to Question No 3-02828 of 4 May 2016 on Asti-Cuneo and to 4-06760, which is still concerned with Asti-Cuneo. The government, more than a year away, does not answer questions that are a regulatory obligation, but finds time to go to plead the cause of the extension of the Turin-Milano motorway to reward the one who did not complete the Asti-Cuneo motorway twice. According to the uncontested newspapers, the government is even treating the prize to those who are failing on Asti-Cuneo and does not even say what its determinations are in this regard, and then does not find time to answer questions. I also ask the question 4-06775 concerning the Brescia-Padova motorway. There has already been an answer from the Government, but the latter has not answered the following question: who signed the documents that allow this company, happens to be controlled by a bank, to sell for 1.2 billion euros to a Spanish company, which now - news just last week - seems to be absorbed by Autostrade for Italy, which is basically the Italian monopolist? We therefore ask who has authorised this operation, according to which EUR 1.2 billion, which should end up in the state and which could also be greatly increased, are going to end up in a private company, for the benefit of another private company. Very well private companies, but what the State owns must be sold by the State and certainly not by others, who own a motorway, in my opinion completely irregularly. My opinion is confirmed by the fact that the Ministry, despite requests for access to documents, civic access and questioning, does not respond.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u171	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-823.ana.u172	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 17 May, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 3 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.06 a.m.
