ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.33 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2134, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Gadda and others; Garavini and others; Old and others; Bindi and others; Bindi and others; Formisano and a bill of popular initiative, 456, 799, 1180, 1210, 1225, 1366, 1431, 1687, 1690, 1957, 2060 and 2089. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the replies of the speakers and the representative of the Government took place. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. The Presidency declares that sub-amendments 1,500/1, 1,500/14, 1,500/15 and 1,500/16 are inadmissible, since these proposals are intended to amend the text of the draft law and not the amendment to which they relate. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u9	Mr President, with amendment 1,500/5 I would like to ask that, in the i-bis paragraph, the words 'the suspects' should be understood as follows: 'provided that the conditions set out in Article 1 are maintained.' Mr President, this is about the topicality of social danger, which is required by all the judgments of the Court of Cassation, according to a consistent and uniform interpretation, to which Senator Lumia himself referred in his reply. With amendment 1,500/7 I propose an addition to the rapporteur's amendment: (i-bis) after the words "640-a" insert the following: "as well as the crimes referred to in Articles 314, first paragraph, 316, 316-a, 316-b, 317, 318, 319, 3219-b, 319-c, 320, 321, 322 and 322-a Criminal Code, committed using the conditions laid down in Article 416-a of the Criminal Code or in order to facilitate the activities of the associations provided for in the same Article" (i)." I think, for everyone's intelligence, we've been discussing these days that we're talking about an anti-mafia code. So we agree, Mr President, that for all so-called spy crimes, which concern crimes against the public administration, where they have been committed using the conditions laid down in Article 416-a or in order to facilitate the activities of the mob associations, these rules should be properly applied. Amendment 1,500/13 does indeed provide for the same thing, but it is written differently. I would like to draw the attention of the rapporteurs to the fact that it is proposed to add to their text the words: "where the charge referred to in Article 7 of Decree-Law No 152 of 13 May 1991, converted, with amendments, by Law No 203 of 12 July 1901." In fact, it is that anti-mafia attack, which in my view we correctly referred to in the previous amendment, of the descriptive text in order to recall what was the course that justified that amendment. If the rapporteurs feel they should accept, for greater simplicity, this second amendment, which has the same content, I have no problems. Amendment 1,500/14, Mr President, I have not understood whether it is acceptable or not. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Caliendo. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Then, in paragraph 1 (a), we ask that they be applied... [[Comments of Senator Pagliari]] Oh, is that inadmissible? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendments 1,500/14, 1,500/15 and 1,500/16 are inadmissible. Excuse me, Mr President, I would just like to draw your attention, in addition to the attention of the rapporteurs. We have written in the Commission that, in the event of tax evasion, the fruit may be subjected to preventive measures even if it is engaged in the purchase of an apartment, a property or whatever it is. It has not been taken into account that there are persons who have committed tax evasion, but who, according to the law, have then become legitimate owners of those sums. I am referring to the legislative measures relating to the tax shield and others. I ask: how can it be thought that a sum that has become of legitimate detention cannot be committed. [[Brusio]] Mr President, this amendment has been declared inadmissible, but the issue is delicate. I do not ask to change what has been done by the Commission, but to add the diction: unless they are legitimately possessed in implementation of subsequent legislative measures. It is a rule that is needed to avoid an absurdity: we will continue not to take into account the money coming from the evasion, which instead has become legitimate. Therefore, the justification of having purchased a certain property with that money becomes a subsequent finding with a waste of time of the magistrates and judicial organizations. It seems absurd to me not to include this further justification. In fact, we will find ourselves in a Kafkian situation because, on the one hand, Parliament and the law authorize the legitimate usability of that money and, on the other hand, we do not take it into account. In the end, it is clear that the judge will come to that solution, but after a period of time that will not be clear. With this kind of clarification, I believe, Mr President, that your reconsideration of the declaration of inadmissibility of sub-amendment 1,500/16 should be made because it would mean taking value away from the law that Parliament has approved. That seems pretty crazy to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u10	Mr President, the sub-amendments I have tabled are intended to restrict the scope of the provision in question. I believe that there is concern in many of us about the abuses of power that can result because these are protective measures that would act in the presence of a start of investigation also for mere criminal intentions, without these having a qualification referring to the mafia method or the aim of promoting a mafia organization. It is not difficult to imagine how these protective measures can be widely used beyond the same objective as the legislator. Therefore, sub-amendment 1,500/2 explicitly provides that a mafia method can be set up in the committee of the crimes mentioned and that at least one of these crimes is actually carried out. At the same time, other sub-amendments always devoted to restricting the possibility of applying precautionary measures refer to the defendants and not only suspects, so that these precautionary measures are addressed to persons for whom there has not been a final judgment, but at least the condition following referral to trial and not only the preliminary investigation phase. I call on the House, beyond any preconceived or deployment position, to assess the profiles of freedom which are included here and which relate to the precautionary dimension of the proposed actions. We have recently even been able to see the subjection of legislative acts - I would like to point out with particular force to colleagues - which, apart from their ethical and political assessments, should be unavoidable. Thus, even the legislative act has been considered among those configurable in the qualification of corruption. I believe that, even in the presence of an expansive interpretation of the crime that has been dealt with, caution is necessary in the name of the freedom of the person, in the name of the habeas corpus, in the name of fundamental rights that cannot be conculcated just because the relative provision can give some immediate positive news. I have the feeling that often, at this time, legislative acts are being produced as if they were press releases, with the aim of mere political communication, where they are intended to affect the lives of people and their families. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group and the Senators Volpi, D'Ambrosio Lettieri and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u11	Mr President, I have tabled only one sub-amendment which I considered to be corrective because I imagined that the rapporteurs, when drawing up their amendment, were wrong to consider the hypothesis of Article 640-bis as distinct from the subsequent ones related to Article 416, so that I simply included Article 640-bis as well as the others related to Article 416. I am told, however, that it was not a mistake but that Article 640-bis, that is, the aggravated scam, was deliberately put aside because it is already in itself a crime that must be consumed in association form. Well, I invite the Undersecretary Migliore, if he has one minute of time, to insert Article 640-bis in the disk containing the criminal justice precedents: he will find a myriad of sentences that are condemned, in accordance with Article 640-bis, a single person who has consumed the crime in an individual form. Let me give you an example, because I immediately saw one: the Community scam. The person who, in order to obtain funding from Europe, produces a series of false documents, is operating alone and the jurisprudence sees him condemned in accordance with Article 640-bis. So, as you can see, it is by no means true that Article 640-bis necessarily presupposes the associative form for the crime to be consumed. Then I ask you to reflect. On the other hand, what does it cost you? Most of them include the least, although the question I raise was questionable. By accepting my sub-amendment, it would be appropriate to include, in relation to the suspects of the crime referred to in Article 416 of the Criminal Code, certain of the crimes referred to in Articles 314, first paragraph, 316, etc., etc., also Article 640-bis. In fact, I have also included in the sub-amendment Article 640 second paragraph, paragraph 1, which concerns the classic scams for civil invalids. The Neapolitan Public Prosecutor is full of investigations into organizations that aim to achieve a sort of civil disability. Well, those are associations, but 640- bis can also be consumed in individual form. On the point, then, if Senator Lumia were not distracted and listened to me, I would allow myself to suggest that a check was carried out. Because if I, after this House has deliberated, bring him the precedent that sees a person convicted, who has been convicted individually under Rule 640- bis and has committed the crime of fraud individually, I really think that politics would not make a good impression. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u12	Mr President, I would like once again to call my colleagues to the political weight of this measure, and I would like to explain my amendment, 1,500/4. It provides that for all public administrators, for the crimes I list: flawed by profit of the error of others, malpractice to the detriment of the State, concussion for an act of office, corruption for an act contrary to the duties of office, corruption in judicial acts, undue induction to give or promise utility, undue perception of disbursements, a clue is sufficient to arrive at the seizure and confiscation of all assets. In other words, the suspicion of an administrator or the prosecution, even in an associated form (three or more persons), of having committed one of these cases involves confiscation, even if the administrator arrives to be acquitted from this accusation and even if the prescription comes and is acquitted under the second paragraph of the old norm of the penal code that concerned the lack of evidence. We are therefore introducing special legislation, which until now was reserved for the Mafia associations (and was rightly exceptional, it was at the limits or outside of the Constitution, because the evil octopus in some way went, and must be, hit in a determined way), and we extend it to thousands of cases: municipal councillors, city councilors and mayors, who, for an accusation or even for previous events dating back to years before, can see themselves kidnapped all the assets. And this is also linked to the other rule, which is already law, so for these crimes the prescription has been after thirty years. Therefore, we start with the seizure of assets and then there are thirty years of time (first instance, appeal and Cassation) that the State takes to determine whether that public administrator is guilty of the charges that have been brought against him. I am telling you this because, when it does not happen to one of you, to one of your friends, to the city councilman or to the administrator (who would come, with his eyes out of his head, to tell you that they confiscated everything on the basis of an accusation, but that he was never convicted), to remember the day when this Parliament voted on this rule. So, with a view to reducing the damage, I limited myself, as far as could be done, by submitting the rapporteur's amendment, first of all, as Mr Falanga said, to adding to the other offences also the aggravated scam for obtaining public payments. We do not understand, in fact, why this crime must remain outside the association, moreover, is punished much more blandly than other crimes that instead require the association. Secondly, I have allowed myself to remove from the list of offences for which preventive property is to be confiscated from the victim by profit of error, maltreatment to the detriment of the State and undue perception of a dispensation, because, if you go to see, they are crimes punished with penalties from six months to two years. In other words, with regard to corruption offences, they are a case of which, among other things, it is very easy to be accused. As I said yesterday, if there weren't the mayor of Naples, which is what it is, if there wasn't the president of the Puglia Region, which is what it is, if there wasn't Dr. Woodcock, which is what it is, if there wasn't an Italian judiciary, especially the one done by the prosecutors, who have accustomed us, as we read in the newspapers, to certain initiatives, that end, in most cases, in the acquittal of those who have been accused and are victims of years and years of trials, I could be quiet. However, I wonder about an instrument of this kind, if it is not corrected, put in the hands of certain magistrates. Excuse me, but doesn't the Constitution state that a person is not considered guilty until a judgment passed in court? And we not only consider her guilty from the moment of the clue, but we seize her possessions, we confiscate them; not the mafioso or the 'ndranghetista, but thousands of public administrators and officials who, if this bill is passed, will live with this sword of Damocles on their heads. Do you think we're gonna find volunteers who go to public administration if not criminals who are already calling indictments? Do you think that decent people will put their lives, their families, their heritage, their honor at risk when they can be subject to such measures? [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, MPL, RP)]] Does the Senate realize what it does against the Constitution and common sense? Of course, the rapporteur calls for attention because Europe will reject these measures. Of course, Europe is concerned about this trend. Finally, we weaken the fight against the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the Camorra, because extending to thousands or tens of thousands of possible cases this special legislation, evidently the direct effort of the courts and prosecutors to fight the mafia is diluted and watered down. An account is Totò Riina and an account is the peculated by profit of error. Do we put them on the same level? Does our legislation become all special and go beyond the rules of law? I hope, at least, that these damage reduction amendments will be accepted, subject to a final judgment which we shall be expressing on a rule which, in any case, is certainly outside the constitutional rules and, above all, common sense. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, MPL, RP).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u13	Mr President, I believe that the debate has served a great deal, partly because the rapporteurs have come back to their steps and have taken some of the considerations we have made in this House. I do not want to believe it, because I know the rapporteurs well, having attended them well in the Commission, but it seems to me that Amendment 1,500 has played the game of the three cards. On the one hand, that is, there is the intention to always respond to the belly of the country, on the other hand there are the jacket of the judiciary and on the other hand I wonder whether this Parliament finally wants to go back to thinking with its head and to adopt measures of which one should not regret tomorrow. In essence, the rapporteurs restrict the audience of the target groups of the prevention measures. While the original text provided for prevention measures to be applicable to the suspects of one of the crimes referred to in Articles 314, 316, 316-a, 316-b, 317, 318, 319-b, 319-c, 320, 321, 322-a and 640-a of the Criminal Code, the rapporteur's amendment 1,500 limits the applicability of prevention measures to the cases referred to in Article 640-a (aggravated fraud for public disbursements) and to Article 416 of the Criminal Code, if they are aimed at the commission of the offences provided for in the previous version. Therefore, crimes against public administration become crimes of purpose and prevention measures do not apply directly to them. After the intervention made authoritatively in the Chamber by Senator Falanga is excluded the flaw of use, so I see that there is the possibility of taking note of common sense, but in essence in the majority there is a softer position in the application of preventive measures for crimes against the public administration, but it is as if everything came from the window. Therefore, in order to avoid this hypocrisy, I have tabled amendment 1,500/9 to replace the words: 'finalized to the committee by some of the following: 'i.e. to the rapporteurs, pointing out that this amendment did not fundamentally change the principles on which we fought in this House and which were authoritatively supported by Mr Giovanardi. The aims to which we refer are in fact precisely the confrontation in which any public administrator, with such a measure, is absolutely subject to find himself, with situations that cannot be healed except with a long period in which the right is substantially lacking and the protection of the defence is absolutely lacking. That is why, Mr President, I tabled this amendment. [[Applause from Senator Tarquinio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u14	Mr President, I would like to take up the previous speech in part. Amendment 1,500/10, at my first signature, is in fact exactly the same way, because, although it proposes a slightly different solution, it is identical in its content. Honestly, I must express the same amazement that Senator Di Maggio has just expressed, in the light of a general discussion in which it has been highlighted as a qualifying aspect of these changes that have been made to the House - which have been reiterated here in the Senate even in the sense of increasing them - the fact that it has wanted to be included within the whole of these measures, that we are going to review with the anti-mafia code and that aim above all to discourage, limit, prosecute and finally predict a whole series of crimes related to the mafia, also everything that then falls to the public administration and the State in terms of crimes against the administration. In the course of the general discussion, I heard many colleagues, including Senator Ricchiuti, who welcomed the fact that these measures were also included within this bill, precisely to block, prosecute and put in the sights a series of behaviors and crimes that are extremely harmful to the health of our State. Well, after a general discussion in which one has boasted of the presence of this element within the text, here is what Senator Di Maggio called "the game of the three cards," because with a transposition and a reversal of legislative drafting, all these articles and all these crimes, which had been added and of which we had been glorified as an additional element of contrast to crime and hateful crimes to the state and citizens, incredibly it is as if they wanted to move into a funnel that ends with a filter with such tight links so that, overturning the circumstances, instead of widening we narrow. We list a series of articles of the code and then say that all these articles of the code are valid only if they pass through a tiny hole. I believe that there is a need for transparency and truth: we have to determine whether or not we introduce a reference to these articles, because if we formally introduce them to the rafting level and then prevent their actual application because we make them pass through a tight mesh filter, then maybe it would be more intellectually honest and even more transparent and cleaner towards those who listen to us and those who watch us draw up the laws, eliminate them completely.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u17	MOLINARI (Misto-Idv). Mr President, on behalf of my fellow Members, Mr Romani and Mr Bencini, I would like to endorse Amendment No 1,500/10 by Mr Mussini. I would like to point out that, in our view too, the rewriting proposed in paragraph i-a) in our examination, in fact, decreases the impact that we wanted to give to the rule that we have so much told around, namely the extension of personal and property prevention measures also to corruption offences. The risk, with this rewriting, is that you take a step back and eliminate this effect, considering the subtraction of democracy, and the consequent social alarm, which these crimes also cause.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u18	Mr President, we have listened to the debate on amendment 1,500, which reads: 'i-a', to the suspects of the crime referred to in Articles 640-a or of the crime referred to in Article 416-a of the Criminal Code, aimed at the committee of certain of the crimes referred to in Article 314, first paragraph, 316, 316-a, 316-b, 317, 318, 319-b, 319-c, 320, 321, 322-a of the Criminal Code. This amendment clarifies the discipline but I believe that it should be precisely framed. In order to do so, I would like to start from the considerations of the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor, who said that, precisely with reference to the text of the Anti-Mafia Code and to the proposed amendments: It does not appear to be in line with the nature of the prevention procedure, the extension of the category of recipients to the suspects of the crimes referred to in Articles 314 et seq. in the field of public administration which, according to the current legal interpretation, if characterised by the requirement of usuality, are already included in the wider category of subjects referred to in Article 1 (a) and (b) of the Anti-Mafia Code, Article referred to in point (c) of Article 4. The national anti-mafia prosecutor Roberti adds: "It deserves to be reported the recent significant increase in the use of personal and property prevention measures against the subjects referred to in Article 1 of Legislative Decree no. 159 of 6 September 2011. The effectiveness of the system of patrimonial prevention has led to a progressive and increasing extension of confiscation to different types of crimes, if and as an expression of a habituality to illicit or productive traffics of proceeds such as to believe that the proposals usually live with the same ones. Now, I believe that if an objective reading is to be made, it must be noted that the framework in which this reform of the anti-mafia code has taken place already largely provided for the possibility of applying preventive measures for those suspected of crimes against the public administration. Therefore, when I hear in the debate about exacerbating or exasperating the situation, I see no evidence of this statement. Amendment 1,500 simply seeks to clarify a particular case which concerns the cases referred to in Article 4 and has therefore delimited a specific hypothesis linked to crimes against the public administration when they were carried out in the context of a fraud against the State or an association for criminals. This is also based on the fact that, as is also evident from the case-law, crimes against public administration are increasingly the result of a criminal agreement that leads to their commission, which is therefore linked to the initiative not more than the individual, but of a group. So in these cases, the associative criminal activity and also the element of the mob association are more easily nested. The reason for the amendment is therefore this, with a view to completing and systematizing the forecast introduced by the House of Deputies. There is no limitation; on the contrary, there is attention to bringing the forecast back to criteria of rationality, logic and proportionality, in line with the principles repeatedly reaffirmed by the Constitutional Court. It is in this key that the rapporteurs read the content of the sub-amendments presented, on which the opinion is negative, because they go to misunderstand the installation of amendment 1,500 or introduce elements that are already partially present in the system (in this way leading to an unnecessary burden), that is to say they determine different from what we have decided to propose.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u21	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like a clarification. If I understood correctly, Amendment 1,500/1 was declared inadmissible. At least that's how I felt. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yeah, that's right. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I do not understand the reason for this declaration of inadmissibility, because the sub-amendment is not deleted from amendment 1,500, tabled by the rapporteur, but provides for an amendment. With this amendment we are basically going back to the basic text, with the final specification of the last lines. Therefore, I do not understand the reason for the inadmissibility. As the rapporteur intended to amend the letter i-bis, I too, using the rapporteur's amendment, can propose an amendment to it. I really don't understand the reason for the declaration of inadmissibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u22	Senator Palma, I think I've made myself clear. As you refer to the original text, yours is not a sub-amendment but an amendment and, therefore, as such, inadmissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u25	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Pagliari, for clarification. In his speech just now he has read the text of amendment 1,500 and it seems to me that there was a small difference to the printed text that has been distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u26	Senator Malan, the Presidency also noted this discrepancy, but I think it was a slip. In his speech, Senator Pagliari referred to Article 416-a of the Criminal Code, but, having all the text of the amendment, we know that the exact reference is to Article 416. In any case, I invite Senator Pagliari to provide a clarification, so that he remains in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u27	Mr President, I apologise, but it was a slip. The correct reference is to article 416 of the penal code, therefore to the association for simple delinquere.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u28	We have so many "a" in our order. The remaining amendments are set out. It seems to me that the rapporteur has already expressed, in general terms, an opinion contrary to all the amendments tabled. I therefore call on the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u29	I give my assent to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency has received a request for a secret ballot on certain sub-amendments to Amendment 1,500, the vote on Articles 1, 2, 5, 29 and 34 and the final vote on the measure. Requests for secret voting relating to Articles 2, 5, 29 and 34 are not admissible as they do not fall within the scope of Article 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, requests for secret ballots on these articles would nevertheless have been inadmissible because of their lateness. As is well known, in established practice, requests for secret ballots must be made in good time so that the Presidency can assess them. This is to reaffirm the principle. Instead, the Presidency considers that requests for secret voting with regard to amendments 1,500/2, 1,500/3, 1,500/4 are admissible and timely. 1,500/5, 1,500/6, 1,500/7, 1,500/8, 1,500/9, 1,500/11, 1,500/12 and 1,500/13, as well as Article 1 as a whole, as this provision extends the scope of the recipients of personal prevention measures. Finally, pursuant to Article 113 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, the secret ballot on the final vote is not admissible, since the subjects covered by the draft law are, for the most part, outside the scope referred to in paragraph 4 above. Amendment 1,500/1 is inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,500/2, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,500/2, tabled by Senator Sacconi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,500/3, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,500/3, tabled by Senator Falanga. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,500/4, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot. [[Senator Giovanardi points out that he wants to intervene]] I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,500/4, tabled by Senator Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,500/5, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u33	[[Comments by Senator Giovanardi. Protests from the PD Group]] Senator Giovanardi, when you request it, we, with the cooperation of all... Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) What do I do? I don't know. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In the meantime, we shall cancel the verification of the support for the request for a secret vote. Please, Senator Palma. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Senator Pagliari has just pointed out in his speech that the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor has shown his opposition to the enlargement of the audience of preventive measures, recalling that all those involved in crimes against the public administration are already receiving such measures. The rapporteur also said that his amendment was based on the fact that it is one thing to commit the crime of corruption individually and it is one thing to commit it within an associative plexus. This approach may or may not be shared, but it cannot be asystematic, i.e. it cannot be lowered within a complex doctrinary and jurisprudential framework which, in fact, concerns prevention measures. Amendment 1,500/5, which we are proposing to the House, does not affect the rapporteur's amendment at all; it simply states that those preventive measures can be activated against those associated with an association aimed at the fulfilment of crimes against public administration, provided that the general conditions set out in Article 1 of the Anti-Mafia Code remain. Translated into clear, this means that, while essentially for the Mafia association, in the absence of certain behaviors (disassociation or whatever), there is a presumption of danger and topicality, as the Court of Cassation says, repeatedly and with a constant orientation, for crimes other than those exquisitely mafia-like, it is necessary for the judge to reason on the persistence of the requirements referred to in Article 1. That's all, that's all. In other words, we want to make legally binding for the judge what is at the moment stated only by the jurisprudence, that is, basically that for crimes other than the mob association and crimes typically mafia the judge must not move out of presumption, but must motivate on the existence of evidence of danger and of the actuality. Therefore, since we do not touch on the rapporteur's amendment and simply refer to the jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation, I do not really understand the need for an opinion against it, unless the mental reserve is to extend to the prevention measures for members of normal criminals the modalities indicated by the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court for the procedures of anti-mafia prevention measures. That's it. I really cannot understand the reason for the opposite opinion. I therefore call on the senators, both those who have listened to me and those who have not heard me, to vote in favour of the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u36	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would ask Senators Caliendo and Palma to allow me to sign this amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Palma, by Senator Falanga there is a request for authorization to sign amendment 1,500/5. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, every time Senator Falanga makes such a wish, it is a pleasure for me to welcome him.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u39	D'ASCOLA (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I would like to make a point of clarification, if I am able to do so. In the meantime, as regards the application of preventive measures, not only the reference to Article 416-a, but also the reference to the charge referred to in Article 7 of Decree-Law No 152 of 1991 does not substantially introduce any innovation, because Article 416-a is within Article 4, i.e. it is a provision which makes prevention measures immediately applicable. Similarly, for Article 7, i.e. the need to facilitate mafia organisations, i.e. to have acted with a mafia method, as it is contained in Article 51 (3 bis) of the Code of Criminal Procedure referred to in Article 4. Therefore, all the provisions that introduce the reference or the association of the mafia or the aggregation in reality do nothing but replicate what already exists today, so they are not equipped with the text's modifying capacity because already today, in the presence of these assumptions, the preventive measures are applicable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u40	I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,500/5, tabled by Senator Caliendo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,500/6, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u43	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to give a clear thought to this amendment and to those that will follow immediately, because they have the essential objective of restricting significant measures such as those aimed at limiting the freedom of the person and his right of ownership in relation to a mere circumstantial phase. Here it is proposed to replace the term "indicati" with the term "defendati" in order to ensure that there is at least one more advanced condition in the state of ascertainment of the truth of the facts, which transforms a suspect into a defendant.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u46	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Sacconi because his amendment probably gives us the opportunity to clarify what we are talking about to those who, for obvious reasons of their own, are not familiar with the law. Senator Sacconi says that preventive measures must be taken against the accused and not against the suspects, as is the case under this provision. But the basic reality, gentlemen, is that the category of suspects is a different category than the category of suspects and the category of defendants. Then let's clarify who I am. The suspect is a person against whom there are elements to register him in the crime news register and to promote an investigation against him. The defendant is a person against whom the prosecution is carried out, which therefore will essentially have its own diametrical vent. The suspect is not a suspect and is not a subject to which criminal proceedings have been initiated, but it is something else. Which, of course, I believe - and I thank Senator Sacconi for this amendment - reveals a great truth: these prevention measures move towards a suspect. How much this action can be in tune with a rule of law, as at least in words we continue to say we are, is not clear. [[Applause from Senator Alicata.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u49	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I think it should be remembered that the approach of the system of prevention measures has now passed the scrutiny of the Court of Cassation, the Constitutional Court and all the European Courts, because it is based precisely on the need for advanced protection and preventive protection against particularly serious crimes. With regard to these particularly serious crimes of mafia, major organized crime, terrorism and certain types that are indicated, the possibility of this sort of double track has already been allowed, to protect society, to protect the security of citizens and our community. So this proposal to respond forward to the types of crimes for which prevention measures are allowed is absolutely unacceptable, just for what is the state of our anti-mafia and anti-terrorism legislation and for what is ordinary and constitutional jurisprudence.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u52	FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I rise to subscribe to Senator Sacconi's amendment 1,500/6, to emphasise this forcefully and to invite others to subscribe to it, both because of the speech that has been made on the rule of law, and because I also have a little to smile about, because then when uncertainties take over things are seen differently. Justice is a spinning wheel, my lords; so certain judicial impulses, which then often come back against each other over time and cause a review of things, also aggravate the confusion and mistrust of the citizens. I therefore strongly support this amendment. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u55	Tarquinio (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, I believe that this House is dealing with these problems with an unusual lightness. In fact, we continue to speak quietly, because in Italy we think of much more and not the real problems that grip this country, and one of these problems is justice. And we face them in the most wrong way, persevering in uncontrolled justiceism. Senator Sacconi's amendment is sacrosanct, but it is always down. It seems that we are in a perfect country, where justice has no problems and evil is all outside of it. This is not the case; you all know it and we all know it. We continue to deliver citizens into the hands of those who get up crooked in the morning and decide that they are suspects. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Fucksia]] Does that seem normal to you? And that's why he's being confiscated? How many people did this happen? How many administrators? I certainly will not advise any of my friends from now on to be a city councilman or anything else, because I send him to meet perhaps at the end of his life. With so much lightness we vote and we are happy to comply with the wishes of those who want to subvert the rules of this country. There is an order that is superior to a Parliament, that is the real fact, and those in that order who are guarantors are put under their feet. This is not about guaranteeing, but about citizens' rights, which we are trampling on. As my colleague Nitto Palma said, simply because I'm a suspect, I'm being confiscated from home or anything. Are you thinking about it? Think about it? Where are we going? People have lost their senses. They are not political parties; we should defend the citizens here, but every act is done to strike the innocent if anything, because the hardened delinquent knew how little he cares about what we are doing. As someone said, more than a thousand thieves out there than one innocent in there. This maxim doesn't belong to you. We're out: do we work for the citizens or for the physical? Do we work to indulge those who always want to get something? Do we need to protect those who commit crimes from morning to night and, perhaps, come from other countries? Do we have to be charitable to these people and slay Italian citizens? We are eliminating all rights with great lightness; do you not notice? Why doesn't each of you reflect? The moment is serious and serious. A debate of this kind at other times would have taken days and, instead, we are now voting and moving forward. We also know from the speeches who is on a non-institutional side but of an order that wants more and more. I do not believe that politics and citizens' representatives should delegate to others the future and the serene life of citizens who do their duty. Think carefully. One day there will be a remorse of conscience because we will see how many people will kill themselves for such absurd measures as this. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and GAL groups (DI, GS, MPL, RI) and Senator Fucksia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u58	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, on this issue I would like to remind Senator Casson that in the last parliamentary term we have already deliberately used the term 'inditiates' only for the mafia. Correctly the Court of Cassation subsequently followed us by saying that there was no need for the Mafia to find out. For terrorism we used an expression - which was then confirmed to us in the Commission - of the kind: those who, working in groups or in isolation, put in place objectively relevant preparatory acts. We didn't use the term "indicati" do you realize that, using the term "indicati" for crimes against the public administration, the hypothesis of a police report in which it is said that the guy is suspected of one of the crimes against the public administration and is also suspected for 416? Therefore, if the prosecutor doesn't believe that the clues are so serious that he's registered with the suspects, we'll find ourselves in front of a suspect guy who can be put in place a prevention measure, but who can't be entered in the suspects' register. Do you want me to believe that this corresponds to principles of legal civilization? Read what university professors and law interpreters have written on this issue this weekend. Mr President, precisely because of your history, I had tabled an amendment - there will be another amendment shortly afterwards - to rewrite this text. One thing is to say that those are the Mafia spy crimes, so we have to fight it and we have to make sure that those crimes are affected when they are put in place to facilitate the Mafia associations. But when it comes to a common citizen and a common crime, what do we solve? In words like "indicati" we have an embryo of a police state contrary to what are the rules of our democracy, contrary to what are the rules of the criminal trial. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, FL (Id-PL, PLI) and GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)]] I cannot accept - and I do not know how you can admit it - some solutions to the basic rules of law. You helped me - you were not part of this House in the last parliamentary term - when I wrote this code together with others for five months. And this code was meant to fight the mob. We don't do what Giovanni Falcone said: if everything is mafia, then nothing becomes mafia. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, FL (Id-PL, PLI) and GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)]] We must achieve a correct solution. Then perhaps the term 'defended' will be exaggerated, but if we leave 'indicati', even with the understanding of Article 416, it means neither more nor less than finding ourselves with the danger to which I referred earlier. [[Applause from the groups FI-PdL XVII, LN-Aut, FL (Id-PL, PLI) and GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u59	Senator Caliendo, it is useless for you to call back my previous function because it is now another. I cannot comment on this, but President D'Ascola has already said what is in our order and there is no need to clarify or further deepen. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). He expressed his ideas.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u62	D'ASCOLA (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I rise once again to introduce clarification elements. The term "inditiate" already appears in the text of Law No. 575 of 1965, as amended by Law No. 646 of 1982. It is therefore a historical expression that has its own precise justification, because in the prevention process there is no probative standard and, therefore, the legislator expresses itself with an intermediate term which, in fact, is the circumscribed term, which has always existed. As for the distinction between the suspect and the accused, it is a fundamental distinction - I do not think I have to intervene - because it concerns only the procedural phase: one becomes accused when there is a referral to court by the judge. However, I allow myself to take further action. The system of prevention measures is based essentially on a double access channel. On the point of Article 1, preventive measures may be taken if crime is committed, i.e. if the proceeds of illegal activity are, even if only in part, reflected. I obviously overlook the following article 3, because it is not relevant on this side. In essence, prevention measures, as regards Article 1, involve repeated activities. Then there is Article 4, which concerns a system for catalogs of crimes. Article 4, which is linked to Article 1, also under Article 16, on the contrary, provides for individual offences. Historical is article 416 -bis, but obviously on the point no one can make any comments. I must also note that in 2008 and 2009, with the security packages, the numerical category of crimes that individually may involve the application of prevention measures has expanded, introducing the violent typhus and the reconstitution of the fascist party. Therefore, the fact that the so-called anti-mafia code is not entirely an anti-mafia code was born in 2008-2009 and is then repeated with the final version of 2011. There are a number of observations and reservations of a systematic nature regarding the expansion of the so-called anti-mafia system, the anti-mafia code, by categories of individual offences. I could say that it depends on the fact that prevention measures are not distinguished from security measures, because it is difficult to judge social danger and anything else. The legal, but also political, point of this statement is that the amendment tabled by the rapporteurs is justified on this very side. Precisely because they did not want to have access to an anti-mafia code for crimes, as it was in the solution given to us by the House, the rapporteurs tabled an amendment which, on the contrary, links the prevention measure to an organized criminal context, even if not a mafia one. But that could not be done and I have already said it just before because, if it had been done, an existing standard would have been introduced, and of course it could not be done. I imagine that in the choices made by the speakers it was necessary to identify that associative context not of mafia type, and that therefore introduces an innovative disposition, that binds the crimes against the public administration to an associative context. It is clear that then the Senate will rule in its highest moral freedom in choosing one version or the other. The associative context, meanwhile, introduces a typical temporal component of a system that imposes the repetition of the conducts. Article 416 of the penal code provides for a permanent crime, where the temporal chronological component is the master. Therefore, in a certain sense, it is a sys tem of assonance both with Article 4 in the part in which it refers to Article 416-a and with Article 1 in the part in which it imposes repeated conducts. And that's all I'm saying about it. Honourable senators can see that the anti-mafia code cannot escape its preventive calibration. If we, in fact, unbalance the anti-mafia code on the repressive side, we will probably get a spoiled product on the constitutional side. Recently, the European Court has reminded us of certain aspects, which concern not this area but Article 1. In essence, intervening on an associative crime, which involves an indeterminate programme of crime, means acting precisely in the direction of prevention, that is, the prohibition of an associative structure functional to the commission of an indeterminate number of crimes that, if banned, will no longer commit those crimes. This is to say that the amendment tabled by the rapporteurs is in line with the spirit of the anti-mafia code. It would not have been the case if it had been a system for individual offences, as the rapporteurs felt they had to prevent it, because in that case there were problems of overlapping prevention measures with security measures, which is a major legal problem, and especially the difficulty of selecting the concept of social danger which, on the basis of the commission of a single crime, would obviously have been difficult to identify. This, however, is not for the associative cases, which are the concretization proper to the idea of danger. For these reasons, I would like to say a word in support of the amendment tabled by the rapporteurs. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u65	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I am trying to understand what the President of the Commission has just said. I confirm, therefore, a progressive expansion of an exceptional instrumentation, born to fight the mafia and then extended to some minor sectors from the point of view of the public incidence - such as the reconstitution of the fascist party, which is certainly not a crime today of great topicality - which - as Senator Casson rightly said, which is meant to be - is, however, placed within a logic of advanced defense. So, as in the Soviet Union for crimes against socialism, you could end up in jail because you suspect you want to hit the institutions; or as, during fascism, there were special laws, here you introduce the concept that an administrator citizen can be expropriated of all his assets - and I call the substance - not because accused, not because investigated, but because suspected of having committed a crime. That's the substance. And this involves extending the rule to tens of thousands of administrators. I do not know if anyone has read the letter sent by our former colleague Ilaria Capua, a former congresswoman and researcher, overwhelmed by infamous accusations concerning the public administration, accused of having Lucrato or of wanting to lucare I do not know how many billions on the skin of the health of the Italians and made object of a scandalistic campaign of "L'Espresso"? He resigned as a Member, now he has written from the United States to stay away from Italy, away from a country in which in addition to the Calvary immediately, he would have seen his assets expropriated, because the accusations against him were so serious that they led - in Casson's logic - to take the decision to take preventive measures that would have hit him in the heritage, regardless of whether anyone had ever proven his guilt. That's what upsets me. How can we fail to understand that the exceptional measures concerning the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the camorra cannot be applied on the basis of a suspicion? As we repeatedly read in the police information: you can't rule out that guy did this. We have arrived at the "Can't be excluded" and not to the fact that he did something, but that he didn't. Therefore, reference is made to the clue and we speak not of the suspect but of the suspect. And on the basis of this, the asset measure is taken and there is confiscation, even if it is subsequently acquitted. Say it, because with the rule in question this is the reality. It seems to me that there is enough for a reflection on a clarification. And, if you decide to write the word "defendant", you are part of the civil countries of the West; you move away from communism, from fascism, from special laws and you fall within the framework of a concept of justice for which even the most severe penalty (patrimony or not, detention or not) is applied to a person who is found guilty of having committed a crime and not only suspected, in a difficult position such as that of public administrators. Go and see the events that have involved administrators of all parties, from Sesto San Giovani to Rome, to the South, and the years of judicial ordeal for absolution and, you will find that, if from the beginning we begin with the expropriation and confiscation of property, in 60% of cases we do something that has already in a preliminary way destroyed a person, regardless of whether it will then be found guilty or innocent. Do you want the Italian Parliament to vote for such a provision? Let's at least correct the norm. Let's at least write the word: "Deputy", so we will know that there is a screening for which the clue is not enough, but on the person who should be affected by these measures however there is a fumus that has committed something wrong. Of course, if cases like that of our colleague Capua do not teach anything, there is really to be despaired about the future of our country. [[Applause from Senators Rizzotti and Sacconi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u68	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, a few minutes ago I suggested to the Undersecretary Migliore and to the rapporteur, Mr Lumia, that we go to check the repertoire of criminal justice to see how many sentences the offence under Article 640 bis of the penal code is contested by one person and not already in association form. They did not want to do so and they rejected my amendment. And, therefore, I have allowed myself to have only two sentences printed - but there are thousands of them in the repertoire of the Italian Supreme Court - where there is the condemnation under article 640- bis of a single subject. You don't even have the humility to go and check it out, that's all for the institutional function you cover. You are obliged to study because, if you do not do so and remain ignorant, you damage our country and the Italians. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u69	Senator Falanga, you started from the premise that someone would tell you what you are contesting, but you would have told him privately, because nobody in this House told you that. [[Senator Falanga delivers papers to the government representative. Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] Senator Falanga, I think you're overreacting now. We all know what you say, but that is not the problem. I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,500/6, tabled by Senators Sacconi and Fucksia. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,500/7, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u72	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, without this in any way risking the exchange vote, I would like to propose an agreement to the Members of this House: you pay attention to this speech and then I will no longer speak on this issue. I have listened to strange things, such as the fact that the rapporteurs have prepared this amendment to anchor prevention measures to a permanent associative crime which, as such, manifests its dangerousness. I do not understand - I have to say the truth - the first question: if the problem is associative crime, why do anti-mafia prevention measures apply to crimes against the public administration and are not applied to hit the criminal associations for robberies, extortion and many other very serious crimes for criminal profits? I therefore have the impression that the associative aspect is - as it were - a little sugar which is being offered to the House in order to have this measure adopted. A second aspect is - as Senator Caliendo said, citing a colleague - that, if everything is mafia, nothing is mafia. The problem - in my opinion - is not that either. The problem is that, if we use the non-ordinary tools to combat mafia crime for so many other forms of crime, we are going to weaken the fight against mafia crime itself. Each of us knows how long it takes to carry out correctly the capital and banking investigations, which are the prerequisite for the anti-mafia asset measure. And we all know how unfortunately often the Forces of Order engaged in the sector, with their specificity, suffer delays in the answers precisely because of the mass of work with respect to the amount of investigative energies. You do not realize that giving the possibility to activate a measure of anti-mafia prevention against criminals - certainly - but with mafia crime nothing has to do with it, it means allowing any judicial office in Italy to engage the Forces of the Order - I think in particular of the Finance Guard - in activities that may be more profitably spent in the fight against organized crime. I heard arguments about suspects and suspects and the laws of 1965 and 1982. In our code, however, we have - as I said before - the suspect and the accused; the suspect is a separate category. Thus the following situation could occur: a person registered as a criminal record, and therefore investigated for the crime of corruption, suspected on the grounds of a police report by association with criminals, may be subjected to prevention measures even if he has never been subject to proceedings for the crime of association with criminals, being peaceful that he is suspected for the same. With all this I mean that probably extending anti-mafia prevention measures to an extent, outside of the objective that needs to be focused, means somehow weakening the fight against the mafia. That is why we have proposed this amendment. It is good to envisage taking anti-mafia prevention measures against suspects who have committed crimes against the public administration, as they are often spy crimes, i.e. they essentially point to the proximity between the public administrator and organized mafia crime. I open and close a parenthesis: Senator Zanda, if there is a spy crime, it is exactly what you - in my opinion, perhaps rightly - have not included in the protection of the mayors, and it is abuse in asset office acts. The real spy offense is exactly what I strangely don't see among those expected. So the suspects have to be prosecuted? Very well, but at least let them be prosecuted when the crimes of which they are suspected are in some way related to mafia crime, i.e. if they are put in place in accordance with the procedures laid down in Article 416-a, i.e. if they are aimed at the life of that association. Nothing but this. I believe that, in voting in favour of this amendment, we would be very much in favour of combating organised crime because, by focusing - yes - on crimes against the public administration, but qualified by their correlation with organised crime, we would spend well the investigative energies available. Finally, Senator Zanda, you have previously said that this is a strategic measure for the Democratic Party. I figured it would be. I note that it is a strategic measure for the majority, since I have not seen the senators of the Democratic Party stand up in its defense.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u73	I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,500/7, tabled by Senators Caliendo and Palma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1,500/8, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,500/8, tabled by Senator Sacconi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1 500/9, on which the request for a secret ballot has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u76	DI MAY (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, the amendment tabled by the rapporteurs is the result of an attempt at mediation in this House between the opposition and the majority. First I had the opportunity to say that this, in fact, is the game of the three cards and I tabled Amendment 1,500/9 to make it clear how hypocritical the amendment proposal by the rapporteurs was. For these reasons, I withdraw amendment 1,500/9 in order to avoid the majority having to vote against its amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u77	Amendment 1,500/9 is therefore withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,500/10. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,500/10, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,500/11, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u80	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, as I said earlier, I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to consider my amendments aimed at restricting the scope of the extraordinary measures. This amendment refers to the mafia method by which the criminal process that is hypothesized should be carried out, in order to bring the discipline back to the scope of the code. This mafia method would make a difference compared to the assumptions of crimes against things that do not have that extraordinary qualification that can legitimize equally extraordinary measures. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to really reflect on what we are deciding for the future of our society.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u81	I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,500/11, tabled by Senator Sacconi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on amendment 1,500/12, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u84	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, in this case the amendment has a modest but still significant scope, namely to require that, for the activation of the extraordinary measures envisaged, at least one of the crimes mentioned be actually carried out. In other words, it is necessary that this is not only a circumstantial context based on general criminal intentions, but that at least - and I stress at least - one of the crimes in question is actually carried out. I do not seem to ask what would undermine the importance of the measures that are being allowed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u87	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I rise very briefly to ask you to subscribe to sub-amendment 1,500/12 and to thank my colleague Sacconi who comes from the great socialist tradition of this country; others, like me, come from a democratic-Christian tradition, others from the liberal tradition, but they are all traditions that have defended freedom in our country. Perhaps in the next legislature, if this bill is passed, it will be possible to return to the triumph of the cultures of freedom and the guarantee of citizens' rights. I note, from the votes that have been expressed, that the ancient and totalitarian tradition, with the addition of the 5 Star Movement, is prevailing, erasing fifty years of legal civilization, laboriously conquered in this country with the Resistance. And all the amendments that seek to link, with common sense, the rights of citizens to something that they have committed of real and criminal importance, are deleted on the basis of the ancient theory that the right of the individual, even if innocent, must be sacrificed to society. They have already told us about Nazism, fascism, communism and today you tell us again.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u88	I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of sub-amendment 1,500/12, tabled by Senators Sacconi and Giovanardi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,500/13, on which the requested number of senators requested a secret ballot.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u91	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, perhaps my explanation of vote will be useless too, but I would like to invite everyone to consider not what I say, but what they have written on the last weekend academics, magistrates and criminal chambers, because you are remodelling the minimum guarantees of a democratic state. If it is a question of fighting the Mafia and criminal organizations, Forza Italia is not only in the front line, but has written the anti-mafia code and has led to the stabilization of article 41-a, and President Grasso remembers it very well. With Amendment 1,500/13 I want to make one last attempt to make the amendment of the rapporteurs functional and consistent with the system. I do not modify it, but I add the following words: "where the charge referred to in Article 7 of Decree-Law No. 152 of 13 May 1991 applies, with reference to the Mafia's charge. Such aggravating occurs when someone commits a crime to facilitate mafia, camorrist or 'ndranghetiste associations. Question: is it necessary? I'm not touching the suspect. I leave the word "inditiate", which is already serious, but I would like the suspect of those crimes to be at least linked to the attack of the Mafia, because if it is not, open a huge gap. Nobody's going to make politics anymore. No one will have the courage to run for local elections in our country anymore. That's how you find it difficult. I do not even have to tell you to be careful, because this is another issue of election campaign and because you are attacking the rights of citizens and the guarantees provided by our Constitution. Here I maintain the rapporteur's amendment. I'm not asking for a change. I would ask you to add that those crimes must be committed by the Mafia, i.e. in order to promote criminal associations, not after the investigation, but at the beginning. But neither do you vote. Unlike you, we will fight against the Mafia and, even if the rapporteur's amendment is incorrect, it is wrong, we will vote in favour of it, because we will still have to ensure intervention. Then, if you have a conscience, in the secret vow you reason on the possibility of adding this aggravating factor. If this is not the case, we will be faced with what the national anti-Mafia prosecutor Roberti has said: we must not broaden the prevention assumptions exponentially, because otherwise we will not be able to apply them. This will mean lowering the fight against the Mafia when you have carried out such an operation. It only serves to give a further, strong power to the National Anti-Mafia Directorate and to police and law enforcement activities to criminal organisations. Instead, you want to have the flag, which will turn against you, because it is against decent people. [[Applause from Senator Fucksia]] It is against those who are not mobsters, nor members of criminal organizations, but who, in fact, fight them from morning to evening. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senators Fucksia and D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u92	I urge the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a secret ballot is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of amendment 1,500/13, tabled by Senators Caliendo and Palma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,500/14, 1,500/15 and 1,500/16 are inadmissible. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,500.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u95	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement is opposed to amendment 1,500, because the provision of the associative crime greatly restricts the scope of the rule, as it was approved in the Commission. The corruptive phenomenon is a national emergency and it is useless to repeat it, but it is not because of the 5 Star Movement. It is right that priority should be given to action, and the measure in question goes in that direction, especially Article 1. The rapporteur's amendment, however, is too restrictive, compared, for example, with those responsible for individual and serious conduct of public money appropriation. Moreover, it will make it very difficult to try the targeted association, such as - for example - the peculate. I don't know who's getting the rule down. I don't know. I know that the forecast approved by the Commission, being wider, is certainly more in line with what we have requested to give a signal to the country of a step forward in the fight against corruption. We shall therefore vote against Amendment No 1,500.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u98	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I would like to declare my vote against the rapporteur's amendment, which affects the text from the House. I believe that the text as it emerged from the Commission is preferable. I wonder why the 5 Star Movement, which rightly believes that the rapporteur's amendment is restrictive, abstained, essentially voting against, on a sub-amendment which brought it to a greater extent. Just as it is curious that the amendment with a larger scope has been voted in favour of by Forza Italia, which I imagine will now accept this restriction that the rapporteur's amendment implies. I think all these games aren't good for the fight against the mob.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u99	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u101	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I would like to declare my abstention vote, aware of the significance of it in this House, because I consider the amendment by the rapporteurs to be fundamentally irrelevant from the point of view of limiting the freedoms that will result from this measure. I really do not think that the concerns I have heard from my colleague in the Mixed Group are being raised. It will not escape the remarkable discretion by which can be defined the clues on the basis of which a subject will be accused of mere intentions that he would like to realize through an association to criminals for which it will not serve many arguments, but only labilississime indications.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u102	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u104	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would like to declare the Group's vote in favour because, although an effort has been made to correct the rapporteur's amendment and - alas - this attempt has failed, having accepted at least the exclusion of the hypothesis of the misuse, which could have happened to one of our directors, we can say that if this does not satisfy us at least eliminates some damage that could really be done to our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u107	MOLINARI (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I rise to vote against both myself and the IdV component of the Mixed Group on this amendment, because it could not be otherwise, given the signing of Mr Mussini's sub-amendment. We reiterate that the solution identified by the rapporteurs increases the situation, in the sense that it narrows the scope and I therefore believe that it is a serious mistake of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u110	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u111	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,500 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,100 is therefore excluded. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1, on which the requested number of senators has submitted a request for a secret ballot. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 113 (4) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot of Rule 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u112	Mr President, I am opposed to Amendment 2,100 and to Amendments 2,300, 2,302 (correct text) and 2,301.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u113	Mr President, the opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur, provided that a reformulation is made to Amendment No 2,300, which, if I may, I would read.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u114	Please, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u115	BEST, State Secretary for Justice. To the last line of amendment 2,300, after the word "Accordingly," add the others to Article 2 (3) delete point (d) and "Accordingly." In Article 12, the following paragraph is deleted:
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u116	Excuse me, Undersecretary Migliore, this would be a further amendment. BEST, State Secretary for Justice. This is a reformulation, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 2,300, at the last line, states: "Therefore, in Article 12 delete paragraph 2" Have you asked for it to be reworded with the addition of the deletion of other paragraphs? BEST, State Secretary for Justice. Yes, Mr President: 'In Article 2 (3), delete point (d) and Article 12 delete paragraph 2', since there is a 'thus'.................................................................................................................... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let us hear the views of the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u117	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u120	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am sorry, I did not understand how you considered it, whether it is a reformulation or an amendment. This is undoubtedly an amendment, so I believe that the correct procedure should be used for an amendment. Above all, if the government and the rapporteurs are not spoken first, it is not the opposition's fault.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u121	Senator Volpi, the Presidency was absolutely surprised that there was no communication between the rapporteurs and the government, so that it could be introduced first in an amendment by the rapporteur. This is another amendment for the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u122	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u124	Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. Mr President, the assessment of the reformulation proposal is another issue. What we absolutely cannot accept is that it is said that there has been no talk between the Government and the rapporteurs. I'm not telling you that much about the senator... president. I was only referring to this point, of course, because otherwise there would not have been a proposal to amend the Government on an amendment by the rapporteurs. Mr Pagliari, rapporteur. No, we simply knew that he would make this proposal for the rewording of the "So (...)" and therefore Senator Lumia expressed the opinion knowing that this rewording would come, which is a "So (...)" then it has a coordinating function.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u125	The problem is also that of the relationship with the Presidency. We could have considered in good time whether this was a reformulation or a new amendment. I therefore have the provision for revaluation. [[Senator Falanga points out that he wants to intervene]] Senator Falanga, we have set aside Amendment 2,300. I ask the government if there are any other rewordings.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u126	Mr President, there are rewordings on other articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u127	If the government can provide us with these rewording requests in advance, we have an opportunity to evaluate them. [[Senator Falanga points out that he wants to intervene]] Senator Falanga, give me a moment; do you see that I am in intercourse with the government? Can the Government now provide proposals for reformulations not only on this article?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u128	Mr President, I will give you all the rewordings we are going to propose.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u129	You should provide it now; perhaps I have not explained myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u130	BEST, State Secretary for Justice. I'm on other articles.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u131	If there are proposals for rewordings, can you anticipate them to the Presidency so that it can assess whether they are actually rewording them or whether they look like new amendments? If there is a new breach in the amendments, there is the option of the sub-amendment. That is why we have to assess. I don't know if I made myself clear. If it is a new amendment, then there is the option of subemberating; if it is a reformulation, it can be accepted, but it is an evaluation by the Presidency. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). That's not possible! Suspend the sitting and teach a lesson under parliamentary law! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ferrara, I'm not teaching anyone. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Give me the floor on the order of business! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, in this tone... [[Protests of Senator Ferrara]] The government was talking. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). You give me the floor! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We've cleared it up. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). No, you give me the floor! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I give you the floor after the government. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). There are no conditions! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Ferrara, I'm giving you the floor as your group leader. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). You give me the floor without any justification. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give you the floor as a parent, as usual. It does not appear in the Rules of Procedure. I give you the floor as the Parent Company which interrupts the President's intercourse with the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u132	President, republican history was used to justice for another Better. This doesn't seem to compare with the best. Having said that, if the government is making mistakes, you cannot speak privately by asking a question to the representative of the government who cannot turn around and talk to you. It's not allowed. That's not possible. If there's a problem with the government's benches, stop the session. You cannot give suggestions in the sense that you ask the Undersecretary if there are any other amendments and the representative of the Government turns around and tells you something we do not hear. Stop the session. That is the Rules of Procedure. Then do what you want because the history of this House has already experienced serious inconveniences as regards the direction of the work of this House and at this point I am silent. Already enough to pass to history these serious drawbacks and I do not want to piss off because of his inattention and an unpreparedness and ineffectiveness of the Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u133	As far as my carelessness is concerned, it does not seem to me; on the contrary, there is an excess of attention. As far as the problem of private relations with the Government is concerned, I wonder, given that we are in a public Chamber, how there can be private relations. [[Senator Volpi points out that he wants to intervene.]] That said, let's hear Senator Volpi. What do you want to intervene for? VOLPI (LN-Aut). If you will, I shall speak on the order of business, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Not if I want it; I'd rather go on. VOLPI (LN-Aut). I know you play what we think every once in a while, so I'll tell you, president. Please, on the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u134	Mr President, there has been a direct proposal from the Government for an amendment. These are amendments: let us not be smart enough to have the same things proposed in a different way, because this House would be fooled. The Government has made a proposal, which is an amendment proposal, which is why we follow the procedure envisaged, with all that must be done, including the transition to the Budget Committee. I wouldn't be wary of you, Mr President, but remember that when I get angry sometimes it's never about politics, because in politics you win and lose, but the rules are rules, and you're the referee. (Senator Centinario gesticola).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u135	Senator Volpi, leaving behind the gestures of his group leader Hundreds, who are certainly not appreciable, can give me notice... Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). President, don't you know my name yet? Hundreds! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I posed the problem and I need time to evaluate. I have already proposed a provision, so where is the procedure? FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). You cannot propose, Mr President: either you have or you do not have it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Oh, my God, what's going on? Is it the heat or the air conditioning?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u138	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business because I have not understood where we are and what has been decided. In the face of the opinion given by the representative of the Government in relation to the diction, in Article 12 delete paragraph 2 (b), there was a proposal, always by the same representative of the Government, to modify or introduce - I did not understand correctly - a paragraph 3, a paragraph 4. I repeat, I have not understood whether this is the Government's proposal or whether it is an invitation to the rapporteurs to amend their amendment, because I believe that the Government's proposal, as formulated, is not acceptable; it cannot be done. It is a matter of identity between what concerns the amendment of rapporteurs 2,300 and Article 12, paragraph 2; so it is one thing. The other things are additional, they are something more that I do not understand why they are proposed. At this point I would like to understand whether the Government makes a proposal for reformulation, if it does not, if we give a text, because in the face of a possible text we should be able to examine it all, present sub-amendments and then move forward with opinions; but I believe that the Government must first dissolve the node.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u141	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, you have laid down the provision of Article 2 for the reasons we have witnessed, but it seems to me that Rule 100 (10) and (11) of our Rules of Procedure, which regulates the provision of an article during voting, gives this power to the Presidency, undoubtedly, but at the express request of the Government or the Commission. In this case, it does not seem to me that the Government has asked for the provision, nor does it seem to me that the rapporteurs asked for it. According to the above paragraphs, the relevant Commission, the Government and, in the case referred to in paragraph 7, the 5th standing Commission may request that the discussion of the amendments be dismissed. In the interests of discussion, the President may decide on the provision and postponement. Therefore, the President may decide on the provision, but he may suspend the sitting and postpone the measure if necessary to the Commission. It seems to me that this is the correct interpretation of paragraphs 10 and 11 of Rule 100 of our Rules of Procedure. Then you are the chair of this House and the most authentic interpretation is certainly yours.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u144	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the amendment tabled by rapporteurs 2,300 concludes with:'Consequently, in Article 12, delete paragraph 2 '. I would like to ask you, who accepted the amendment: to which paragraph 2 do you refer? Since there are two paragraphs 2 in Article 12, if by chance it is paragraph 2, i.e. the second paragraph, this has nothing to do with the rule just introduced by the amendment. It could have something to do with paragraph 3, if the second paragraph 2 becomes precisely paragraph 3, even if as an interpretation it is a bit'stripped. I would therefore like to know, first of all from the rapporteurs, what this final part of Amendment 2,300 refers to.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u145	Senator Caliendo, cut off the bull's head. The Presidency has, and can do so, the provision of the whole of Article 2. When it becomes clear what we might want to reword or change, then we can have the clarity to move forward and decide accordingly. Article 2 is therefore set aside. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 4. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 5, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u146	Mr President, Amendment 5,100 deals with an issue which the rapporteurs know very well. I expected a favourable opinion from the rapporteurs and the government on it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u147	They haven't expressed it yet, Senator Caliendo, have hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u148	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Then mine is an announcement. In the current code, with regard to anti-mafia prevention measures, there is a competence proper to the district attorney, the attorney also of the place of residence and, deliberately, as you remember better than I, the provision was introduced that, for the other types of crime referred to in Article 4, the district attorney was delegated to carry out those functions. This is the most correct solution, because, otherwise, the anti-Mafia district attorney is burdened with a series of tasks that, instead, are carried out by the district attorney. Here it is said, instead, that the functions of the prosecutor of the Republic at the court of the capital of the district are attributed to the prosecutor of the Republic at the court of the district, after coordination with the attorney of the District Republic. Why? What coordination? In fact, a first observation had been made, in the sense that it had been planned without coordination. In this regard, I said that if both of them could perform the same function, it would aggravate the work of both of them, because one did not know what the other was doing. The question is as follows: the current system guaranteed the District Attorney greater attention and freedom of movement on the Mafia, leaving this activity to the District Attorney. The amendment does not affect these prerogatives, but it gives the district prosecutor the powers he has today. I therefore cannot understand the desire to maintain this dual function with prior consultation which is not necessary, unless bureaucratic procedures are used to slow down the intervention on the subject of the mafia.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u149	The remaining amendments are set out. I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u150	Mr President, I am against Amendments 5,100 and 5,101. On the other hand, I call for Amendment 5,300 to be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u151	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u152	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5,100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5,100, tabled by Senators Caliendo and Palma. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,300 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5101 tabled by Senator Cappelletti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 5 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). As the vote on Article 6 is linked to Article 2 which has already been set aside, I have the provision. Having also checked that the vote on Article 3 is also linked to Rule 2, I shall cancel the vote on Rule 3.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u155	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I wanted to ask first, but I did not allow myself, if we were certain that the votes we were making did not have a connection. Let me say that either we solve the problem of the difficulties we have with Article 2, or we are likely to affect our work, and I would also like to say this in relation to the work of the Senate Offices, which I believe need to be drawn up in relation to what will be decided on Article 2.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u156	Senator Volpi, I accept your request. I therefore suspend the sitting so that the Presidency can verify the Government's requests. (The sitting was suspended at 6.55 p.m. and resumed at 7.17 p.m.) Let us resume the examination of the amendments relating to Article 2, which had previously been put aside. I would once again urge the Government representative to comment on Amendment 2,300, tabled by the rapporteurs. Mr Migliore, you may not even turn to me because it seems that it is unparliamentary to address the President. FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). It's written on the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u157	It was just a way to get up. It was a movement. Mr President, on the basis of clarification, that is, that we interpret our proposal as a new amendment, withdraw the proposal for rewording and vote in favour of Amendment 2,300 by the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u158	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u159	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u160	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, the withdrawal of a rewording should be a simple first favourable opinion on the rapporteur's amendment. Apart from that, in the light not so much of the government's reconsideration, but of the fact that the amendment was technically wrong (let's say, because perhaps not everyone knows, but there were at least two macroscopic errors), before running into votes so then the error remains in the text, wouldn't it be more appropriate, given the time, to spend a night of reflection to evaluate the texts and have the certainty to vote on correct things? Some people say that we have to be quick, but I know that the President cares very much about this bill, and everyone knows it. I believe that the House is also interested, but it is interested in voting on a certain text. We have had a series of votes following the provision, which we now have to cancel. I do not think it is a good thing to pass the laws by voting on articles and deleting their approval because it was subject to the adoption of Article 2. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u161	Senator Calderoli, I appreciate your proposal for reflection, but it is better to continue now that we present all the issues. Then we'll stop the moment we re-establish the normal order. I appreciate your proposal. We therefore move on to amendment 2.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.100, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,300.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u162	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u164	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to clarify what has been written at the bottom of Amendment 2,300. As a result, in Article 12 (...) of the Treaty, which paragraph is to be deleted? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Paragraph 2. It stays the way it is. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, two paragraphs 2 are mentioned in Article 12 of the text. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Caliendo, you do not have a careful eye, because the first number 2 concerns the previous paragraph, while the other number 2 is the sub-paragraph number. You have to have a careful eye to be able to distinguish the 2 in italics from the 2 written in the round. I don't know if he's convinced. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). I understand, Mr President, but I do not understand the deletion. We are talking about the lack of adequate technical means, while in the old text, the one that is to be deleted, we refer to the person concerned when he is detained or interned. With Amendment 2,300 we only intervene on paragraph 3 (b) (4). If the person concerned is held or interned in a place outside the district of the court and makes an early request for such a request, his participation in the hearing shall be ensured at a distance. The last line of paragraph 4 states: • Only if suitable technical means are not available, the President shall arrange for the translation of the person in possession to be carried out. Compared to the current discipline that concerns not only - we know - internees and prisoners, but also the sick and the impossibility of being present, why do we also suppress the last aspect that is still being considered? I can't get close to it, and I feel like it's pointless to suppress. I don't have the code here, but you should do a test to see if there are any other cases that are being eliminated.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u165	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u166	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u167	VOLPI (LN-Aut). Mr President, then we will see with the Group how to vote on this amendment, but one thing I sincerely cannot understand. The government is tabling an amendment, so I imagine that in the head of the person who presented this was somehow improving. Mr. Undersecretary, I think that's the case, otherwise you wouldn't have made a correction. How can you politically argue that you withdraw the amendment because it was considered an amendment and therefore no longer serves? It's either necessary or not necessary. Look, politically, it's not like he's making a good impression. Mr Undersecretary, you are presenting a proposal for an amendment - and I can tell you that I have no reason to think of the bad faith in your intention to improve the measure - and then you do not say that you have re-examined it because perhaps the proposal was wrong, but you say that you withdraw it because, having been considered an amendment, you should have followed the whole procedure relating to a new amendment. Well, agree with yourself a little; I am not referring to you personally, but to the Government. If the Government submits an amendment and then withdraws it with these reasons, I think it is an extremely serious fact. And I also tell my colleagues in the majority. Mr. Undersecretary, please tell us what you wanted to do before and why it's not worth any more. Just because we couldn't stop to bring him to the Budget Committee and present the sub-amendments? Is that why you withdraw an amendment that you considered important? See you; you make the picture, I don't do it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u168	The government's request was for a reformulation, to be precise. The problem then is the evaluation of the substance, which is the responsibility of the Presidency. Now the government has decided to withdraw it. I appreciate your political assessment, Senator Volpi, but your assessment remains an evaluation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u169	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u171	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u172	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2,300 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2302 (correct text), tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2,301 tabled by the rapporteurs. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 3. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 3. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Articles 4 and 5 have already been voted on. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 6. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 6. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 7. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 7. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 8. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 8. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 9. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 9. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 10. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 10. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 11. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 11. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 12, on which an amendment has been tabled, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views. [[Comments from Senator Calderoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u173	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u174	Mr President, I am against this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u175	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 12.100. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request was supported) I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 12,100, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Article 12 in the amended text, on the basis of the adoption of amendment 2,300. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 13, on which amendments have been tabled, which are intended to be presented, on which I invite the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u176	Mr President, I am against Amendments 13,100, 13,101, 13,102 and 13.103. On Amendment 13,104 there are two technical clarifications to be made: at the penultimate staff, after the word 'conviventi', I think there is a refuso and it should be written: 'creditors'.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u177	Senator Buccarella, do you recognize the printing error? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes. Mr Lumia, rapporteur. The second clarification is a rewording, in the sense that at the last line, we propose to replace the words "staff" with the following "manager." PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buccarella, do you accept the reformulation? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes. Mr Lumia, rapporteur. On Amendment 13.105, the opinion is against, but I would point out that, at the beginning, it should be written instead of "At paragraph 3": "At paragraph 5". I turn to the presenters.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u178	[[Comments of Senator De Petris]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u179	It is a misunderstanding, but the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u180	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u182	We vote and then I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u183	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). It sticks to this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It sticks to what? FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, the rapporteur has asked Senator Buccarella to reformulate the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He proposed a rewording. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). It proposed a rewording by identifying only the Registry Director as the recipient of the standard, or by changing the audience of the recipients of the standard. It doesn't seem to me to be a reformulation. The number of recipients of the standard to which the measure was intended is reduced.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u184	Since it is reductive it can be considered a rewording; it is not additional, so it seems to me that this is the sense that Senator Buccarella has grasped. Also because, as you know, Senator Falanga, they are now called Registry Managers and are Registry Staff. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). I don't know if it's reductive. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The previous one was an obvious printing error: "Inherited" was for "creditors." FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). That was a printing error; this is a matter of substance. You take care of yourself.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u185	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u186	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u187	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure and their practice in the Senate provide for the rapporteur to be referred to before the amendments to each article. This also serves to draw the attention of the senators present to the authors of the various amendments and their groups. It seems to me that not following this practice introduces greater confusion, although I agree that perhaps that continuous call may be excessive, but today we have changed the usual practice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u188	I have actually learned from his way of conducting the work of the House, because it is so fast that we can hardly understand the number of amendments. Perhaps there was a need for further clarification today. I take note of this. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). I believe that we should always respect the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right. Thank you. Let us move on to Amendment 13,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. SANTANGELO (M5S). We are asking for it to be voted on and we are also asking that votes on subsequent amendments be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13,100, tabled by Senator Giarrusso and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 13,101, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13,101.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u189	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u190	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u191	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I believe that this is an interesting amendment: in a context where kidnappings and blockades are carried out with great generosity, this amendment, in its own wording, recalls that they are not painless. It's not that the more you kidnap, the better it is; the more you block companies and the better it is; the more you ruin people, perhaps on the basis of suspicion, the better. This is not only for the sake of justice, and the State should be born, in its legitimate origins, from the fact that it is doing justice to its citizens and not from the fact that it is exercising power towards its citizens - these are two different conceptions of the State on which I fear that there is still no agreement in this House - but because, by blocking this and the other, the economy is being damaged. Surprise, surprise and then we are surprised that, by means of passing laws that increase the penalties to an extent, by means of passing laws such as this, which causes with great ease blockage, seizure, confiscation of assets also on the basis of simple suspicions, strangely our gross domestic product rises to the lowest level of the whole of Europe. Weird, really weird. All economic activities are threatened in any way: think of environmental crimes, that it is right to be considered as crimes, but not formulated so that there is no difference between those who make an oversight and the criminal who poisons hectares of territories; or many other measures, such as fake in the budget. For the fake in the budget, here too is the same thing: anyone can be guilty. Senator De Petris noted that there are, in particular in some areas (but in reality everywhere), cases where it is particularly problematic that there is this block. Its amendment proposes that, in the event that the seizure has to do with companies located in territories with greater mafia intensity and particularly fragile from the economic point of view, the president of the cooperative of workers of the seized undertaking, who is constituted on request and without charge to the State, should be appointed as a judicial administrator. That seems interesting to me. I do not believe that the proposed solution is appropriate, because there is a risk of further blocking and the risk of further terrorising entrepreneurs. The problem, however, is there. The problem is: kidnap, kidnap, kidnap, and then, strangely, in some areas, the only employer maybe is the mafia. It has to be: all other activities are blocked. And then we find it strange that the Mafia still manages to recruit someone, despite the very heavy blows that were meritoriously given to these criminal organizations. I asked for the vote on this amendment because it draws attention to a real problem, while giving a solution in my view not appropriate. Therefore, I believe that we will abstain on it. The problem, however, is real. We must ask ourselves why, despite all the economic measures that had been announced as decisive, our economy is running out of steam. Unfortunately, these territories with particular economic and social fragility, as stated in the amendment, now coincide with our entire country. In fact, I would like to know which territory of our country does not present particular economic and social fragility. And we help him by making it possible to seize and block assets and ruin people. Because, if for someone this can be only a very serious inconvenience, for an entrepreneur the blocking of the assets, the seizure, the obligation to reside in a certain place or not to reside in a certain location means to destroy his company. Someone is the problem, and I am grateful to the fellow Member who tabled the amendment. Others, of course, do not pose this problem, because it does not matter if unemployment is increased; it does not matter if further investment is diverted to other countries; it does not matter if investment is discouraged. The important thing is to give the signal. But the signal is given by making good laws and not by making manifest laws that strike people well and therefore make it harder to hit real criminals.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u192	Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13,101, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 13,102, tabled by Senator Mussini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.103.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u195	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u196	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13,104.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u197	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u198	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u199	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the rewording of Amendment 13,104 is wrong. In fact, I do not think I have to teach anyone that the judicial offices need independence and impartiality, which concern not only the magistrates but the judicial office as a whole. When Senator Lumia says he wants to replace the words: "Corporary staff" with the words: "Corporary manager" knowing very well that rarely, almost never (perhaps never) the manager assists the magistrate who carries out that activity, means that he intends to exclude the Registry staff from the persons who can be such as to condition that process through his creditors, debtors, etc. For me, it is appropriate to leave the words: "Horse Registry Staff", however, if, in addition to the Registry Staff who assist the Magistrate, I would also like to add the Registry Manager or the President of the Court. However, removing the Registry staff means no more or less that all these operations, as happened in some cases, can be carried out through the secretariat staff assigned to the magistrate. Mr President, I think you should also pay attention to the fact that it is suggested that we respect the rules of independence of the judicial office, which cannot only concern the magistrate, but also the Registry staff. If we want to include the executive and the president of the court, I agree, even if they do not carry out direct business. Otherwise, to remove the staff who assist and predict the manager means to have no certainty of the incompatibility provided for in the same amendment proposed by Senator Buccarella. That is why I think it is appropriate for the rapporteurs to resist and not because we want to obstruct them. Do you realize that writing the word: "Manager" doesn't make sense compared to the goal we want to achieve? Mr President, we have had a few situations in Sicily. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The manager who assists the same magistrate. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you teach me that the speech: 'the official of the Registry who attends' means limiting to perhaps a case of an executive who assists the magistrate. The words: Registry staff who assist, irrespective of their qualifications, shall include both the manager and the staff who normally assist the magistrate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u200	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u202	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, the idea of proposing amendment 13,104 came to the outcome of a debate we had in the Commission on justice when we analysed the many aspects of the measure that were discussed and discussed. I would remind you that in the matter of the incompatibility of the judicial administrators and the relations between them, or may be, with the magistrates entrusted with them, a debate had developed and I also proposed - I do not know if it is remembered - the adoption of a system of incompatibility equal to that of the compulsory abstention provided for in Article 51 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which was the meaning of the amendment that I withdrew. The withdrawal of amendment 13,103 took place at the outcome of the favourable opinion on amendment 13,104 which, as Senator Caliendo noted, in addition to dealing with the question of magistrates who confer the position of judicial administrator, also originally concerns staff. I felt I had to accept the reformulation proposal because with the reference to the apical role, i.e. the need for transparency at the stage of assignments, which are often of considerable economic importance, it seemed more than acceptable to me and therefore I felt that I should join you. However, my colleagues, Mr Caliendo and Mr Falanga, allow me to say that if so much attention has been paid to this amendment, I wonder why they have not, in turn, made any amending proposals to regulate one of the many points that have been discussed. I therefore maintain the intention to accept the rewording also with the word: "manager" in place of the word: "personal."
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u203	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13,104 (text 2), tabled by Senator Buccarella. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 13.105.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u204	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u205	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u206	Campanella (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, Amendment 13,105, together with Amendment 13,101, has been proposed following a series of discussions with trade union organisations in Sicily, which complained about the ruin that was often faced by the confiscated companies, with the consequences that we can imagine for the staff working in those companies. Amendment 13.105 refers to one aspect in particular: in the wording of the article in the original text, it is envisaged that the Agency shall, within one month of notification of the final confiscation, publish on its website the list of real estate which has been confiscated. In addition to that of real estate, the amendment also proposes to add the list of companies confiscated with the analytical and estimated indication of assets and assets, economic, financial and productive. The reason for this proposal lies in the fact that, in addition to being rather lacking and lacking the publication on the website, as far as I have been able to detect personally, there is also the problem, as far as companies are concerned, that management, as it has been carried out in recent years, is often assigned to a single judicial administrator for several companies, so it is an objectively badly done management, negligently, because of the objective impossibility to follow many companies by a single subject. For this reason, the ruin of these companies was caused by the dismissal of staff, the loss of jobs and everything else. It should be borne in mind that on this subject I have already presented on several occasions reports to the Government, in which I have had the opportunity to point out that the management of these companies is negligent or lacking, as I said before, or particularly imaginative, so much so that the conditions were created for the functioning, efficient and productive companies to become, after a couple of years of such management, masses of goods no longer coordinated and workers fired. If we were able to have the possibility of a precise evaluation of the good that goes to be confiscated, it would be easier to identify the responsibilities of those who made it decay.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u207	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 13.105, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 13.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u208	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u209	Senator Ciampollo, we're in the process of voting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u210	CHAMPOLILLO (M5S). I would like to propose to my colleagues a collection in favour of Senator Pagnoncelli who is not present in this House and who had to leave a paper ball to vote in his place. Today's smart card is Senator Pagnoncelli. I am sure you will want to take action and sanction this behavior.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u211	I beg the secretary senators to check it out. [[Senator Falanga points out that he wants to intervene]] I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Rule 13 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u212	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u214	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, before voting on an Rule, if I ask you on behalf of my Group to give an explanation of vote on the Rule, why is it not given to me? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I didn't see her. I'm sorry. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). No, you saw me, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u215	I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u216	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u217	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u218	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask the answer to my question 4-06338 concerning the shipwreck of Costa Concordia on Isola del Giglio. Better still, it concerns the fact that we have a situation of serious danger of pollution of a pearl of our environmental structure. In fact, cement bags weighing 20 tonnes were used for restoration operations. Now, we have news that this cement is depositing on the bottom of the island of Giglio with extremely serious environmental damage. We asked a question a year ago on these issues. After a year the only news we have is that these tons and tons of cement dust are depositing on the bottoms damaging them irreparablely and experts say that it will not be possible to restore the ex ante situation. I therefore appeal to the Government to take immediate action and ask the Tuscan parliamentarians to take to heart the situation that is very serious. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u219	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u221	PIGNEDOLI (PD). Mr President, I rise to call for the answer to an urgent question that I have presented with several colleagues from the PD Group, the 2-00467, which relates to the crisis of construction cooperatives which has caused major problems in terms of employment and the failure to repay the social loan. It is a large problem that requires both urgent measures and answers but also direct responses that the Government must give to revise the new control instruments so that it no longer happens that there are savings of entire families that are not returned. We need a thought. I would ask that this question, which was lodged on 16 May, be scheduled in this House as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u222	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u223	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u224	BLUNDO (M5S). Mr President, I speak briefly in this House for the umpteenth time, and I will do so every week until I have a clear answer. I would urge you to proceed quickly with the appointment of the senators who are to compose the Single Chamber Committee of Inquiry into the post-Sysm reconstruction of the Eagle. In all my speeches I have always highlighted the urgency of the work of this Commission, which was voted unanimously on 9 January 2016. I would remind the Presidency that the Committee of Inquiry was decided by this House on 10 November last, with the approval of the relevant document at my first signature. Since then a period of time has elapsed during which it would have been very important to do incisive work, as well as to clarify some untransparent events related to the reconstruction and use of the funds allocated. My colleague, Mr Montevecchi, who then held the position of Holding Company, on request, indicated my name and that of Senator Castaldi as members of the Committee of Inquiry representing the 5 Star Movement. Nothing has yet been known about the names indicated by the other Groups. We do not know if everyone has given their indications and if some have not yet sent the names perhaps for mere electoral calculations, linked to the round of local elections just passed. Let us hope that they will now feel more free - of course mine is irony - and that they will give their indications. This delay in time is very difficult to justify and justify for reasons other than a total lack of political will. I therefore ask you, Mr President, in accordance with Article 2 (1) of the document establishing the Commission of Inquiry, to proceed as soon as possible to the appointment of members, urging the parliamentary groups to propose the senators who wish to be part of the Commission or, alternatively, to indicate the reasons or parliamentary groups which have so far effectively prevented the start of this important Commission of Inquiry. Quick start to work was and is a rightful act towards the citizens of the Eagle and the legality. [[Applause from Senator Moronese.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u225	Senator Blundo, the Presidency has already urged and will once again urge only the two Groups that have not submitted the nominations. It will be the Presidency's responsibility to try to acquire all the designations.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u226	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-848.ana.u227	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 29 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.02 p.m.
