ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u3	The next item is questions and questions. It will be carried out first the questioning 2-00387 on the affair relating to a famous journalist. I call Senator Gasparri to illustrate this questioning.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u4	Madam President, the famous journalist is Corrado Augias. This is an interview I signed with Senator Giovanardi and Senator Quagliariello. The question, which is preceded by other considerations, is concerned with a controversy that has long been inflicted by Corrado Augias, according to some newspapers, that in the questioning are cited with precision. "Il Giornale" (Il Giornale), dated February 18, 2015, "Il Tempo" (Il Tempo) on February 20, 2015, and "Libero" (Il Giornale) on November 10, 2015, reported on the story of a famous literary award, "Grinzane Cavour" (Grinzane Cavour), which, although of great importance, was hit by a controversy concerning the management of funds and the possibility that important figures had been given funds in black that, due to their unquestionable cultural qualities of writers, journalists, television conductors had been involved in the events of the aforementioned prize. In particular, Giuliano Soria, an organizer of this event, pointed the index to Corrado Augias, claiming that the latter would receive payments in black. It seems that ‐ they report the newspapers that I mentioned as a source and that the questioning indicates - for every event that Augias was invited, according to this organizer, he received a black cache of 7,000 to 8,000 euros; otherwise - says the organizer Soria - he would have demanded a quadrupled compensation, if he had had to regularly report the compensation to the tax. This organizer then insists on "Free" of November 10, 2015 with the following words: Augias was the most brazen of all, he works only in black, everyone knows it: in public he is a moralizer but in private he is indecent. And again: "He must have come 15-20 times to present the prize and said to me: "If you pay me in black you have to give me 5,000-7,000 euros, if not double." He even asked me when we presented his book at Grinzane Noir in Orta. This episode - if it were true - would be nice, namely that a writer takes money in black to present his own book, which is already a courtesy, a way to promote his own work. Soria continues in various interviews with this cahiers de doléance, with these accusations. The problem is that this is an important cultural event, which has had national importance and which also in Piedmont has had great resonance. Our questioning, therefore, is addressed to the Government and the Ministry of Cultural Heritage, which does not have direct responsibilities, but which promotes and supports many cultural initiatives and rightly, because the initiatives themselves are appreciated and shared by the questioners: promoting culture and presenting books is something worthy. These are circumstances in conflict with the activity of public moralizer, in which we too have fallen short. Some time ago, in fact, after the family day event, the interviewers who participated in it and who claim that participation, because I think I can also say on behalf of Senator Giovanardi, who is here in the Chamber, and of Senator Quagliariello, who we are proud of, for such participation were harshly criticized (as, for charity, it is legitimate) in a television broadcast on La7 precisely by Augias. In the questioning, however, there is, in addition to the question, another premise because we have also remembered previous events. In the 1960s Corrado Augias was suspected of cooperating with Czechoslovakia (it is not my mistake, then there were not as today the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic, but Czechoslovakia). He has also been in the United States for his journalistic activities and in the interrogation we report numerous journalistic quotations that report of this agent, called "Donat" who would have collaborated with Czechoslovakia. It must be said - but we have reported it in the interrogation because, unlike Augias, we ask questions and we also report critical opinions - that the journalist has declared to be absolutely unfounded what the newspapers reported about these events that would date back to the 1960s. Augias spoke of a media beating action against him. We have reported your opinion, because we are not in a position now to check what relations had been with Czechoslovakia at the time. I remember that it was the time of the Iron Curtain, of the Warsaw Pact and therefore it was a serious suspicion, even in the United States, as we refer to the questioning. We have drawn journalistic sources, in this case "Il Giornale" of Monday, October 19, 2009, which talked extensively about these meetings also in the United States, as well as, evidently, previously in Italy citing documents classified as top secret and reported by the newspapers, dated March 2, 1967 and so on. Augias reacted in the way I reported, which I mentioned because of course it is right to report these facts. Then there was another story that saw the protagonist of this moralizer, an important character, who still conducts television programs and dispenses judgments, so much so that the undersigned was widely criticized because, according to Augias, he does not deal with television issues as he deals with it. Corrado Augias was also at the center of a controversy because of the book "Disputa su Dio e dintorni" (Disputa su Dio e dintorni) of 2009, which Augias wrote together with the well-known theologian Vito Mancuso, in which he reported 246 songs from a book by Edward O. Wilson, considered Charles Darwin's heir. It wasn't quotes - because quotes are all made, I'm quoting newspapers and so on - but passages reported. The controversy was strong and ended up in all the newspapers of the time. I say this to describe the profile of the moralizer that rightly criticized us, but this story must also be framed, because it makes credible the suspicion of black funds on which we have asked the government that we thank, hoping for an appreciable answer, but already the answer is an act of courage and transparency. There was also controversy in the newspapers: "Da Repubblica" - where Augias famously holds the column of the letters, so it is an authoritative person - "a re-public" was the title of the newspaper "Il Giornale". Even Vito Mancuso, the co-author, complained a lot; he declared himself extraneous to the story of this alleged translation of texts from one book to another not as a quote, but as - we can say that? - copied, and said: I am the first victim of this unfortunate situation. That's not how you do it. Both in the case of naivety and bad faith. If even the co-author resented himself, we're a little surprised too. Vito Mancuso called himself "bittery" and "completely stunned" by adding: "I don't know what Augias will say, but the fact is undeniable: the pages are under everyone's eyes." Augias said, we also bring back his thought, that the book was born of a dialogue between the supporters of two opposing thesis and tried to pass the passages reported as quotes. He has also disturbed Augustine's Confessions; now I do not know if it was the fault of Saint Augustine, patron saint of the world of information. Moreover, the book was "Disputa su Dio e dintorni" (Disputation of God and the Surroundings), a demanding text: one that deals with such high issues deserves appreciation and respect, but, if one makes a quote, he quotes us too, when we speak, sometimes we say beginning and end of the quote, to allow those who write the accounts a correct representation. So we wait to know if these black funds were there or weren't there, whether the moralist is moralistic or not. Are the espionage charges for Czechoslovakia false? Is that media beating? Augias says so, so don't believe in such a character. Has the book been copied or not? The co-author says he's stunned: I'm less stunned than the co-author because then, after all, I have a house full of books but I have to say that my library lacks books from Augias. There's gonna be a couple. Probably Giovanardi and Quagliariello, who are more precise than me, will have them, but I have several thousands of books that I can show to Augias, who treated us like ignorant unsubstantiated and instead we also wrote books. Senator Quagliariello is much more than I am, being a teacher: he has written books all of which are the result of his wisdom and knowledge and if he makes a quotation he makes it with precision, as I do and Senator Giovanardi that we have a more political profile, but we have sometimes written and we have also read. So we are interested in these facts, without any anger or resentment, only for the truth. Now, the interpretation of which I have finished the illustration will remain in the act, so that it can be found in the 3000, as happens to us politicians. We complain about the damnatio memoriae on the net and the oblivion that is not there. This interrogation will be there and when they do a search, it will emerge. I didn't even trust in an answer. We are grateful to the government that gives it to us, but having already written the interrogation and entrusted it to the imperishable memory of the network was an important biographical fact. Then, we also have the answer: what more to expect from life?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u5	However, Senator Gasparri, the right to be forgotten also exists in the order of the Senate. The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u6	Madam President, I am referring to the question with which Senator Gasparri, together with other fellow senators, asks for news about the possible presence of journalist Corrado Augias in cultural initiatives or juries or cultural events financed by public funds. With regard to the facts reported in the text of the questioning, the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism does not have any specific feedback, nor are there any communication from other administrations in this regard, it being understood that any investigation is the responsibility of the competent institutional entities. Evidence, moreover, with respect to the question posed, the existence of extensive competences of local authorities and public and private cultural institutions, in the multiplicity of events and cultural initiatives that take place every year in our country. As far as the administration I represent is concerned, I inform you that there are no paid posts to the journalist in question in events promoted, organised or financed by public funds. There are also no assignments or recognitions from the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. This, however, in view of the fact that the competent institutional bodies are called upon to respond to the specific facts mentioned in the text of the questioning, does not imply any professional judgement on the journalist and writer in question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u9	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, we did not expect an investigative response, because if there were black funds, tax evasion and other events it is obvious, we also know that, on the basis of the principle of separation of powers, that others, a judicial authority in this case, will deal with them. But we also asked to know if there were any duties and functions attributed to him by the government and we were told that there are no functions of this nature. On the rest, perhaps, some more news could be drawn, but we will turn to the judicial authority. We already seem positive, however, to have learned that despite the great cultural importance of the character in question and the importance of his books - some with some pages probably the result of other people's flour - there are not, in the state, tasks and functions entrusted to him, also because, perhaps, those conferred by the Government mean that there are no payments in black, if the Government assigns a cultural assignment it is assumed that it must do so in a transparent way, so it may be that, where there were taxes and whatever else, the interested person had no interest and therefore, perhaps, the collaboration with Soria and with the Grinzane Cavour Prize (I apologize also to Cavour for having involved him with a mention in this story) was more convenient; then, this public reflection that we have done will remain in the acts. We are public characters and so is the interested person, who will certainly not be asleep that his events, also reporting his denials and his disputes, with a style that I personally claim and that we have not found when the media beatings or even those epistolary ones it is he to do against others, remain to the acts waiting for, if ever, the oblivion cancels the acts of the Senate (but it will take some time for the acts of the Senate to be deleted). We have not defamed anyone; it is an interrogation and the answer, in this case a very limited answer and circumstance, hoping that someone else will also answer: that it is God as far as the book is concerned, since it was dedicated to him, that is, the judicial authority, where there had been some tax evasion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u10	The following is Question 3-03311 on the lack of transparency in information disseminated by the ENIT website. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u11	Madam President, Mr Castaldi, together with other colleagues, is asking the Administration to clarify the absence, on the part of the website of the ENIT dedicated to the transparent administration, of the information data of the institution. In this regard, I would like to point out that the competent Directorate-General for Tourism of the Ministry has recently recalled its supervised entity ENIT, in the person of the executive director who is responsible for transparency, appointed pursuant to article 1, paragraph 7, of law n. 190 of 2012 and article 43 of legislative decree n. 33 of 2013, to have particular care in updating with timeliness and completeness the section...transparent administration of the institution's institutional site. Some pages of this section, including those mentioned by the honourable Member, have been updated to the latest measures, in particular those relating to the deliberations of the governing bodies and the budgetary data issued; others are being published in order to adapt them to the regulatory changes that have taken place in this area. As is well known, in fact, the recent legislative decree n. 47 of 25 May 2016, revising and simplifying the provisions on the prevention of corruption, advertising and transparency, corrective of Law n. 190 of 6 November 2012, and Legislative Decree n. 33 of 14 March 2013, pursuant to Article 7 of Law n. 124 of 7 August 2015, on the reorganisation of public administrations, has made numerous changes to the legislation on transparency, strengthening its value of principle that characterizes the organisation and activity of public administrations and relations with citizens. The aforementioned legislative decree no. 97 of 2016 intervened, with repeals or additions, on different obligations of transparency. The national anti-corruption authority recently intervened on the subject which, at the meeting of 28 December 2016, finally approved Resolution No. 1310 containing the first guidelines indicating the implementation of the obligations of advertising, transparency and dissemination of information contained in Legislative Decree No. 33 of 2013 as amended by Legislative Decree No. 97 of 2016, and has ordered its publication on its institutional site. ENIT, as well as all public administrations included in the scope of the aforementioned legislative decree no. 97 of 2016, is engaged in the adaptation of the sections of its institutional sites dedicated to transparency, according to the indications provided by DAC. The Administration will not fail, however, to continue to exercise its functions as vigilant authority and to constantly monitor the correct fulfilment of the obligations of advertising, transparency and dissemination of information placed at the expense of the institution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u14	CASTALDI (M5S). Mr. Undersecretary, thank you for your kind reply. Evidently, the call to the Executive Director has begun to bear some fruit. From a quick check, some data that on the date I filed the question were not published, this morning at 10.30 am were in transparency. However, I find it a bit regrettable that in order to claim some transparency we must even reach a parliamentary question. I would like to inform you - because I believe that your work is to stimulate this transparency and I know from the answer that you are doing so - that there are still large shadow areas and I have seen some of them this morning. For example, I would like to point out to you that the entry for concession documents is: "in the course of its publication". As regards the archives of the participating companies, the site shall contain the words: "in the absence of publication". I find it a little difficult to understand the difference between the terms "in the course of publication" and "in the expectation of publication": the nomenclature is also strange. As far as subsidies, subsidies and contributions are concerned, we have no figures. These are also being published. Another painful note, which I would like to point out, concerns advice and collaborations, for which there is no verification, which I believe is due, of any situations of conflict of interest. All this confirms the opinion we have expressed in the Commission, on ENIT, because, two years after the transformation into a public economic entity, it is starting but in fact there is still no attempt at internal reorganisation and there is still a sin on transparency. At the time of the appointment, we expressed a negative opinion on Evelina Christillin; we confirm this today, unfortunately. Finally, I would like to point out to you that still this morning, with reference to Christillin's remuneration, ENIT's website reports that they are being defined: Christillin has been President since July 2015 and I do not believe that the Minister has paid it, in these almost two years of activity and I believe that at least the compensation received so far should be public.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u15	Following is the question 2-00440 on the damage caused by bad weather in January 2017 to livestock farms. I call Senator Quagliariello to illustrate this interrogation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, I presented this question on 19 January last to bring to this House the cry for help that so many farmers, small farmers and farmers were launching from Central Italy and, in particular, from the Marches, Umbria, Lazio and Abruzzo. For weeks, the entire agricultural and zoological sector of the central regions of our country, all the operators of the sector, have remained at the same time homeless, with dangerous stables and submerged by meters of snow. Many farmers resident in the crater territories, in order not to abandon their livestock, were forced to remain - although they still do not have any temporary structure planned for the transition to reconstruction - equipped in lucky accommodations such as their own cars, caravans or stables, sharing them with the animals, in order not to abandon them to their destiny. Most of the structures used for the shelter of the cattle, if not collapsed, have been declared inaccessible and the contemporary climatic conditions have forced the farmers to take the risk of bringing the animals back, out of necessity, into the dangerous structures, trying to avoid them the sure death from the cold. This unprecedented emergency has put at risk the lives of hundreds of thousands of animals blocked at glacial temperatures without food supplies or shelter from bad weather. I had called for immediate action by the Minister of Agricultural Policy to prevent the loss of the primary good for the economy of those areas, the only one on which it would be possible to establish a sudden post-emergency recovery: cattle. I had asked the Department of Agriculture about what urgent measures (even then already late) it intended to undertake, in order to avoid further and inestimable damage, considering that the adverse weather conditions would last for the entire winter season, causing a consequent further decay of the animals and serious losses for the breeders, who have faced and are still facing sacrifices in solitude to keep their activities alive and to give a helping hand so that their own territories can continue to live. Finally, I had asked that a precise timetable be communicated on the delivery of temporary structures or on the adaptation of the structures currently unattainable, also providing an update of the counting of the needs of the earthquake zones, and that the activities that the individual Regions had had to carry out for the support of the zootechnical supply chain, very often supplementing to an inertia from the State. A few days after the presentation of this questioning, Prime Minister Gentiloni Silveri, responding to the numerous requests from Parliament to have information on this and other emergencies, assured (I would like, after the intervention of my colleague Gasparri, to open the quotes): At the last Council of Ministers, we have already extended the state of emergency and decided on a first allocation. Next week we will pass a decree, and no one imagines that this decree is a return: it will be a very focused step forward in its objectives, aimed at preventing on some points, on some decisive ganglia, the accumulation of delays that so far have not been, but that could occur in the coming months and that we must prevent. The resources are there, and I want to say this because I have read and seen a lot of controversy on this point: there are 4 billion in the budget law and there will be more, as I have personally anticipated to the President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker. End of quote. Madam President, these assurances largely fell into the void and, in order for the Council of Ministers to adopt the second earthquake law, it had to wait until 9 February. Now the decree-law has just started its conversion process in the House and such iter will end in a couple of weeks. The decree-law for its immediate effectiveness has already ensured national and European funding for agriculture as well. But often - and this has proved to be one of the cases - having money in cash does not result in a consequent logistical and operational solution. The emergency farms had already begun and had manifested itself after the first shocks of 24 August. It was proposed in October and finally proved uncontrollable in January. The answer that farmers and farmers have always received was to wait. These populations have always been used to settling down and have repeatedly asked the regional and national authorities to be able to provide for themselves, and then to receive deferred refunds. Administrations have denied it. They were prevented from making alternative proposals to those laid down in the general plans drawn up in Rome. At the same time, however, bureaucracy, as per practice, has made these institutional strategies slow, inefficient and also not convenient for the community. There is a popular saying to point out that sometimes we intervene and close the stable when the oxen have already escaped. Never before does that saying convey its metaphorical meaning, with a single variation on the theme: in fact, oxen have often not escaped, but have died of cold. So the months have passed, the temperatures have dropped and the aid promised have not arrived as they should have. The solutions that wanted to rain from above and that were planned from above were quite simply not suitable for the areas to which they had been intended. Many of the tensile structures carried in the areas of Central Italy, in fact, collapsed under the weight of the snow, as was expected. Many people had filled them not with animals but with bales of hay, because they evidently sensed the risk, and in fact they saw them fall down at the first snowfall, or even be swept by the wind. The farmers had predicted the snow, they had predicted the collapses and they also protested in time, but all, unfortunately, was useless. Today we are still in a situation of precariousness which - I repeat - dates from 24 August; it was again on 16 October, still on 30 October and finally on 17 January. I would be grateful if the Government would give some element to understand why it was only on 17 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The representative of the Government has the right to respond to this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u17	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, following the well-known calamitous events that have devastated some of the territories of Central Italy, the Government has considered it a priority to intervene to protect the incomes of farmers and to allow them access to aid and refunds, in order to ensure as much as possible the continuity of production. Since the first days after 24 August, the initiative taken by the Ministry of Health has been shared, which, through the Experimental Zooprofiling Institute for Umbria and Marche, has made available a computerised platform with access reserved to the administrations involved in the management of the post earthquake. This is a fully operational structure which, in addition to being designed to acquire adequate information, is the basis for granting the extraordinary aid to the zootechnics that we are in the process of implementing, with measures to cover the loss of income that has no precedent. Aid shall be established, financed by the State and the Regions, for EUR 400 per head of cattle and adult buffalo, EUR 60 per head of sheep, EUR 20 per head of pigs and EUR 100 per head of horses. I would also like to point out that, in order to ensure liquidity for companies in the regions affected by the earthquake, we have anticipated the payment procedures for aid under the common agricultural policy. In November 2016, Agea provided €69 million in favour of about 33,000 farms operating in the areas affected by earthquakes in August and October 2016, as well as in the other municipalities of the provinces of Ascoli Piceno, Fermo, L'Aquila, Teramo, Rieti, Perugia and Macerata. For the balance payment, last December, Agea paid an additional 20.4 million euros to 19.918 farms operating in the provinces affected by seismic events and an additional 39.6 million, last week, to 51.739 farms operating in the Abruzzo, Marche, Umbria and the Province of Rieti. I would also point out that for rural development, thanks to a specific derogation from the European Commission, which is being formalized, payments are to be made by the first days of March, as an anticipation, for surface applications submitted by agricultural companies operating throughout the territory of the Marche, Abruzzo, Umbria and the Province of Rieti. With regard to the process for the realization of the tension structures, the Regions Abruzzo, Lazio and Umbria, after having experienced the necessary public tenders, are continuing in the works of construction and delivery. There have been some cases of non-compliance of contracting companies, on which due procedures are in progress. In particular for the delay occurred in the Marche Region, attributable to serious failures of the contractor of the contract, the Region, in agreement with the Ministry, has entrusted the task to realize the necessary interventions to the Consortium of reclamation of the Marche, operating on the entire regional territory and in possession of adequate experience of execution of works and interventions also in emergency situations.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u20	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Madam President, unfortunately, I believe that the scale of the damage suffered and the losses suffered in animal husbandry is incomparable with the aid allocated. A large part of these losses could have been offset with a different timing and taking into account what was absolutely predictable. There are things that cannot be predicted, such as the earthquake, and others that are absolutely predictable, such as the fact that in winter it is cold and that, for example, in Abruzzo or in the mountains of the Nevichi Marches. I believe that this has been an understatement that is paid at a high price by the State, because it worsens the emergency situation in those areas, and unfortunately, what is more serious, is paid at a high price by the people who operate in those places, and it has been paid at a very high price by the beasts who have lost their lives because of these failures. In some areas the situation is absolutely dramatic. A trace of this drama is also found in the words of the Undersecretary: to highlight how in the Marches there has been a delay for which the technostructures are delivered - we would say so - at the end of the season is in fact the admission of a reaction that has not been adapted to the emergency and its times. I believe that other situations should also be monitored more closely. Personally I have been able to see in the Provinces of L'Aquila and Teramo conditions of extreme gravity, precariousness and persistent danger of further damage, comparable to the situation that has been highlighted for the Marches. My hope is that in these cases we can intervene with the necessary urgency, but above all taking into account an emerging situation - as has rightly been said - which in some cases does not compare with situations of the past. It is clear - I hope it is also the Government and the ministries concerned - that emergent situations with unique features must be faced with unique and in a certain way extraordinary tools, which come out and in some cases force normal procedures, because if the emergency is unique, obviously the answer must also have its own uniqueness.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u21	Following is the question 3-03391 on the damage caused by bad weather in January 2017 in South Italy. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to point out that in recent days the process of declaring the state of exceptional atmospheric adversity in the regions of Calabria, Sicily, Campania, Abruzzo and Molise has begun, taking into account the serious situation in the agricultural sector in those territories after the intense snow and frosts that have occurred since early January. At this stage the necessary detection and estimation of damage by the competent regions is being completed. In the light of the exceptional nature of these weather events, in the decree-law on the emergency earthquake published last February 9, the Government has decided to allow, in an extraordinary and temporary way, the activation of the instruments of the National Solidarity Fund referred to in Legislative Decree no. 102 of March 29, 2004, also for the damages suffered by agricultural productions and insurable business structures. The intention is to support the agricultural sector in the areas most affected, which, due to the low use of insurance instruments, could not count on any form of compensation, risking to see the economic and productive recovery of the activity compromised. I remember that the activation of the instrument of this Fund allows agricultural enterprises damaged by calamitous events to enjoy all the support interventions provided for in current legislation such as, in particular, the provision of capital contributions up to 80% of the damage on the ordinary saleable gross production, the activation of five-year depreciation loans for the greater needs of business management, the extension of the installments of the credit operations in expiration, the partial exemption from the payment of the own social security contributions and of their employees and the obtaining of capital contributions for the restoration of the damaged business structures and for the reconstruction of the stocks possibly compromised or destroyed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u25	PERRONE (CoR). Madam President, I am partially satisfied with the answer that the Deputy Minister has just given in this House. I am convinced, in fact, that the extraordinary measures taken after the exceptional weather events between 5 and 11 January last year are not adequate to deal with the situation. The derogation from the Solidarity Fund to compensate certain uninsured companies and the start of the procedure for declaring the state of emergency for the regions affected by bad weather represent small steps in a long and tiring path. In other words, Mr Vice-Minister, the impression is that the Commission is sailing on sight instead of pondering resources and measures to be taken, especially in the long term. In this regard, the Italian Confederation of Farmers has estimated that the damage caused by bad weather to crops will affect the territories affected by bad weather and the Italian economy for the next four years. The shortage of raw materials has already led to a sharp increase in the prices of fruit and vegetables, which in January was 14.3% higher than in December. The longer fruit and vegetable shelves remain empty, the higher this trend is set to rise. For these reasons, it is vital that businesses return to production as soon as possible and it is clear that farmers' times are not the same as the government. In this sense, the bureaucratic machine should be streamlined to quickly restore a normal condition. At the same time, we must take this opportunity to start a rethink on the protection of agricultural policies. In ten years Italian agriculture has suffered damage of 14 billion euros due to floods and droughts and this means that we can no longer manage climate change as a permanent emergency. It's not just a problem in Italy. It is therefore necessary to ask Brussels to work to safeguard Europe's agricultural and livestock heritage. I would like to remind you that only last 8 February the Region of Puglia, despite the disaster caused by the bad weather, participated in the "Fruit Logistics" in Berlin, the most important European event of the fruit and vegetable sector. Well, Puglia was represented by more than 200 companies that bill 750 million euros derived from direct exports alone. Indeed, the Apulian industry alone accounts for 12% of Italian agricultural products sold on foreign markets. If we do not want to see these figures go down, then policy must take responsibility for restoring normal conditions in order to resume production. I finish, remembering that just yesterday an agenda was approved by this Assembly to the South decree, presented by the Group CoR-Direction Italy, that has engaged the Government to allocate ad hoc funds for the territories affected by bad weather, in particular for the safety of the territories and infrastructures and for interventions of a health nature. We expect the government to honour these commitments as soon as possible. For our part, we will ensure that these promises come true in real actions on the territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u26	The following is the question 3-03137 on the aggressions against the labour inspectors in service. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u27	Madam President, first I represent that the decree of the Minister for Labour adopted in agreement with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance on 28 December - which is currently being finalised - indicated 1 January 2017 as the date of the start of operation of the National Labour Inspectorate (NLI). This decree - adopted pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 22 of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers February 23, 2016 - has also provided for the transfer of part of the personnel of the Ministry of Labour to the INL, of the financial resources related to the fundamental economic treatment and accessory of the staff, of the financial resources related to the operating expenses and the capital goods. I also represent that Article 24 of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 23 February 2013 provides, at the first stage of implementation and for a period not exceeding 24 months from the start of the activity of the National Labour Inspectorate, the possibility to activate a scheme of assistance through which the instrumental activities related to the operation of the Inspectorate are carried out by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies. As regards the question concerning the insurance of inspectors in the event of damage to the person, I represent that the second paragraph of Article 20 of the aforementioned decree of the President of the Council of Ministers states that the Director of the Inspectorate may identify additional risks, compared to those already covered by existing policies, to be subject to insurance cover. Therefore, any assessment of the extension of existing insurance cover is subject to verification of the existence of residual resources in the INL. This evaluation may be carried out when the inspectorate has completed the full operation of its structures and when accounting data relating to the ordinary operating needs will be available. With regard to the formation of a civil party in criminal proceedings for injuries and violence to the public official mentioned in this parliamentary act, I represent that the National Labour Inspectorate intends to activate the procedure provided for in paragraph 4 of Article 1 of Law No 3 of 1991. I would remind you that this article gives the Presidency of the Council of Ministers permission to establish a civil part of the State after obtaining the opinion of the General Commission of the State. In this regard, I recall that in recent years the Ministry of Labour has reported episodes of aggression against labour inspectors to the Vetting when a damage to the image of the Administration is derived from them. In cases where the Vetting has expressed a favourable opinion, the Ministry of Labour has requested and, in most cases, obtained permission from the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to set up a civil party in the relevant criminal proceedings. Consequently, in the trials concluded with the conviction of those responsible, the Ministry of Labour has activated the procedures for the recovery of sums recognized as erarial damage. Finally, I represent that, in 2015, the Ministry of Labour has joined the project of the regional direction INPS of Lazio called Value PA, promoting the activation of a training initiative concerning the responsible and productive management of the conflict in the field of inspection. The aim of this initiative was to enable the actors involved to develop negotiating and communicative skills, to gain awareness of the potential risks to their security and the related signs of danger, as well as to learn the techniques and procedures to be followed in the presence of intimidation or violence. In view of the successful outcome of the above-mentioned training experience, the Ministry of Labour considered it appropriate to extend the Value PA project to a larger number of participants. More specifically, the INPS is activating the above training initiatives in ten other regions: Abruzzo, Calabria, Campania, Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Lazio, Lombardy, Molise, Sardinia, Tuscany, Veneto.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u30	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his reply. First of all, I would like to make a premise, expressing my positive opinion on the establishment of the National Labour Inspectorate for the benefits it has to both economic operators, who are at risk of less uncoordinated interventions, and for a more effective fight against social security and social security evasion. Those who do not respect the rules get a competitive advantage over the economic operator who scrupulously respects them. I therefore believe that only a valid and coordinated inspection activity allows to make concrete and effective any standard in the field of work. For example, with regard to vouchers, which are a topical issue, any abuse is also linked to a difficulty in carrying out the inspection activity. Turning back to my question, I think it is absolutely necessary to ensure a uniformity of treatment, given the unification of the three inspection groups of INPS, INAIL and Ministry of Labour and that on this point it is necessary to develop what is basically also the founding regulation, Article 9, paragraph 2, as already suggested in the question, indicates in the convention which defines both the financial resources and the strategies; I refer to the convention signed between the Ministry of Labour and the Inspectorate itself. I believe that, in the end, an adequate motivation of the staff is increasingly needed, which we objectively know how to do a hard and even risky job. I refer to the answer that the Ministry is actively involved in urging the Presidency of the Council and, above all, to the State to take active action in these specific cases, which unfortunately are repeated continuously. As far as the project started in the direction of Lazio is concerned, I think it is also an excellent initiative. I hope it will be released and successful. The only point that has not been answered is the use and possible purchase of a number of service cars according to the financial resources available, because this too represents a form of greater protection for workers who currently use their own cars. In this case, inspection is an instrument of work. Therefore, as any employer provides the personal computer or telephone to those who have to do a particular job, those who have to go around Italy, for the campaigns or for the opifici, must have a service car without having to rely on a personal car with what follows. In general, therefore, I am satisfied with the answer, except for the latter particular that I believe is worthy of attention and interest from the labour inspectors.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u31	The questioning and questioning of the agenda is thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u32	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-770.ana.u33	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 28 February, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.57 p.m.
