ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. 9:34 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u2	Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u3	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u4	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 2085, already approved by the House of Deputies. The speakers, Senators Marino Luigi and Tomaselli, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Marino Luigi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u6	Mr President, there has been a great deal of discussion and controversy about the delays that have been accumulated by this bill and we have done so - which is unusual - as well as the rapporteurs. The delay is undeniable, because macroscopic. Until May 2016, the causes could and should have been assigned to objective data: we have completed 134 hearings and 1,739 amendments have been tabled; we have had a non-virtuous interweaving with the work of the Assembly and in the meantime have been examined decree-laws, votes of confidence and a constitutional reform; there have also been another non-virtuous interweaving with the work of the 5th Commission, also following the many - up to four - reformulations of the texts, and finally the turnover of the Minister for Economic Development. The year that has almost passed, however - from April-May 2016 to today - reveals that this measure touches sensitive and important issues, on which not the lobbies, of which I will say later, but Government and majority - and when I use this term are generous - have struggled to find moments of synthesis, especially the approach of electoral deadlines. On insurance discounts, energy and greater protection, medicines and pharmacies, companies and simplified company acts, as well as on IT platforms for transport and tourism, the comparison was far too wide, full of reflections and rethinkings. We have to learn from this delay: we are faced with a different measure, it brings together more subjects, it invests more economic sectors and it ranges in the vast world of consumers; perhaps this bill has been overly loaded with expectations. Despite this complexity, the most appropriate solutions have been found for modernising the market - and not for disrupting it - at every storm of the branches of politics and its times, the measure was a step forward. The delay has brought a tangle of political complications as well as a stage of uncertainty in the real economy. Almost nine months have passed since the text, which is being presented to this House today, was approved by the 10th Commission. The measure that is now incardinated in the Assembly of the Senate needs to adjust the many deadlines and the times of start of the planned liberalizations; it needs filings, deletions of articles already inserted in the meantime in other measures, it needs some changes, integrations and legislative improvements. In my opinion it would have been and should be back in 10a Commission for a quick review and approval of cleaner and more functional text [[Applause from the AP-CpE and Mixed Groups]] , also in view of the informal availability expressed by the oppositions for a job sent and not obstructing. The work of the rapporteurs was given the utmost attention and cooperation with all Commissioners from the 10th Commission. The measure came out of the Council of Ministers with 32 articles; the text approved by the House was 52 articles, the text out of 10a The Commission counts 75. The amendments went from the initial 1,200 to 1,739 finals; 142 were adopted, of which more than thirty came from political oppositions and not just facade amendments. This is a sign of fruitful and productive work carried out in a peaceful climate, even in the distinction between roles and individual political positions. We acknowledge the oppositions of having carried out their task of criticism and proposal with fairness and without obstructionism. There has been a lot of talk about lobbying and lobbying. The 10th Commission held 134 hearings between business associations, trade unions, public institutions and some individual undertakings. Audit associations and unions represent the social, economic and service structure of our country; they are perhaps too many, they are redundant, but they are always the intermediate bodies of our national community bearers of particular interests, certainly, but legitimate. With these realities we have had contacts in the utmost correctness and transparency and in compliance with the distinction between roles. So are these evil lobbyists blocking and conditioning Parliament? There have been, there are and there will be organisations in the future that will try to influence the institutions from the outside in order to promote specific and particular interests. The problem is not lobbying, but it is the autonomy of the legislator, who must be able to discern and choose for the good and the protection of the community. No regulation or statute will ever be able to limit the influence of lobbyists as much as the Parliament's transparent and intimate behaviour. In contrast to interests in the field, we have had as a polar star both the protection of consumers and the competitiveness between businesses, without demagogy and preconceptions. I do not think that liberalisation and privatisation is the panacea of all evils and that, above all, they can be reproduced automatically in all sectors of the economy. Not all privatisations and liberalisations of the past have prevented the emergence of monopolies and oligopolies, on the contrary, these changes have generated strong increases in tariffs compared to the inflationary rates in key essential services at the expense of users and consumers. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri.]] Therefore, liberalisation must be done where market dynamics are considered to be virtuous and fruitful. It is not even true that Italy is the usual taillight; I remember in fact that the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) places our country in sixth place among the economies as regards the opening of markets. In addition, both the European Commission and other international institutions remind us that structural reforms, but also normal legislative modernisation, have a positive impact on GDP growth. In some political parts, I must also say by majority, and by some members of the Government and some commentators who go for the major it has been said that this bill is disappointing, poor incisive and little reformer. Other speakers have argued, as has already been said, that Parliament has been blocked and conditioned by powerful and intrusive lobbying. To the beautiful souls, who have the impression that they write and comment more on the basis of hearing that knowledge of the problem and the regulatory texts under discussion, we would like to respond today, here, with the facts. This bill is not, nor could it be, an epochal law. It is an important law, important for many sectors of the Italian economy. From the "lenzuolate" (which, I remember, date back to the beginning of 2007) to today have been produced various measures or norms contained in the law of stability, which have helped to place Italy, as I mentioned before, in the high end of European averages as regards the opening of markets. This draft law strengthens the modernisation of the market for goods and services, and it does so with concreteness and attention both to the world of businesses and to that, much wider, of consumers, without fireworks or mirrors for lards. Therefore, if being a little reformer means introducing savings in compulsory insurance of cars, making complaints of road accidents more transparent, increasing the fight against fraud in order to reduce insurance tariffs and extend the extra-reform activity; if being a little reformer also means moving to the free market in gas and electricity with more information and comparability of supply and the guarantee for the weak and for the end user; if being a little reformer means removing many constraints in mobile phone contracts, intervening on supplementary insurance in favour of the worker, supporting the construction of small photovoltaic systems, intervening through a delegation to the government in the sectors of transport and black boxes, in the leasing and distribution of fuels; if being a little reformer means intervening on pharmacies and professions (lawyers, notaries and other professionals); if being a little reformer means intervening in the ecological field and in many other economic sectors in favour of consumers, well, if being a little reformer means doing all that, we admit to being a little reformer. They are highly innovative and reformative regulations, which cannot fail to have positive and important effects on the market and with significant benefits on consumers. With my colleague, Senator Tomaselli, we shared the presentation of the articles, especially those discussed and amended during the examination of the measure in the Commission. In the short time I have left, I quickly quote those who touch me. Article 16 affects the rules on pension schemes. A consultation table is planned to start a process of reforming pension discipline. We have introduced three amendments in the Commission. The first provides that, in collective bargaining, the minimum percentage of FTT to be allocated to supplementary pension may be established. The second is a coordination action in the field of ransom. The third includes the identification of information tools for financial education as one of the aims of the reform. Article 18 aims to make the withdrawal and transfer of telephone, television and communication services from one operator to another easier and more transparent. An amendment has been adopted in the Commission which provides that the withdrawal or change of operator must, in any case, also be possible by telematic means. Article 19, as amended by the Commission, establishes at the Ministry of Economic Development a register for so-called national numbering resources. The purpose of the register is to censor the operators who make indirect recourse to it. Articles 20 and 21 should be deleted because they have already been introduced into other measures. Rule 22 has not been amended in relation to the text from the Chamber of Deputies. Article 23 aims to promote the maximum dissemination of digital and electronic payments, including micropayment with telephone credit, for the purchase of tickets for access to institutions and places of culture or for cultural events, entertainment and entertainment, but also for liberal donations to non-profit organisations. Article 26 deals with so-called copyright rights, allowing performers to manage their rights, freely choosing intermediaries. Article 27 deletes the exclusive assignment to Poste Italiane of services relating to the notifications and communications of judicial documents, as well as services relating to the notifications of breaches of the road code. Article 48 is identical to what comes from the House. Article 49 has also not been amended. Article 50 should be deleted because it is already provided for in other measures. Article 51 concerns the rules governing the sale of ancillary insurance policies. Article 52, introduced after a broad debate both within the Commission and with the Government, defines leasing practices, in line with the purpose and nature of the contract, and clarifies the duties of the grantor and the user of the asset in financial lease. Article 53 lays down measures for competition in the legal profession and provides for the establishment of companies between lawyers and in particular the entry of capital members. Professional members, i.e. lawyers, must, however, represent at least two thirds of the share capital and voting rights. Article 54 amends the criteria determining the number and distribution of notaries on national territory. The former Articles 43, 44 and 45 on hereditary procedures and amendments to the discipline of limited liability companies have been deleted by the Commission, including by receiving comments from the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor. Article 55 has remained unchanged with respect to the indication that it came from the Chamber. On the other hand, Article 56, which lays down provisions on regulated professions, provides for compensation for occupational benefits. To the Senate has been inserted a paragraph aimed to return the possibility of drafting and signing the cadastral acts, both urban and rural, to the subjects enrolled in the professional register of the agrotechnical and agrotechnical graduates. The Commission has also approved an additional article, 57, relating to the exercise of dental activity, which should be improved in this passage in this House. Article 58 provides for measures to increase competition in pharmaceutical distribution. The Commission's amendment provides that companies can control no more than 20% of the pharmacies in the same region. A new Article 59 has also been introduced, always with regard to the dissemination of medicines. Article 60 then allows pharmacies to remain open even beyond the fixed hours and shifts. Article 61 provides that hoteliers who ask for hospitality on the portal of online travel agencies can offer lower prices than those indicated on the digital platform. Article 68 amends the code of cultural goods and landscapes, changing the rules for the international circulation of works of art. Among the new features are Article 69, which amends the thresholds for prior notification of mergers. Finally, Article 70 abolishes the obligation to denounce the deposit of products for public establishments, public entertainment, accommodation and alpine shelters. [[Applause from the AP-CpE Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u7	I call the rapporteur, Senator Tomaselli.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, as my colleague Mr Luigi Marino said, finally arrives in the Senate Chamber today one of the most complex measures of the entire legislature for the breadth of the issues dealt with and at the same time one of the draft laws from the most controversial and tortuous parliamentary process that has been examined in recent months. Yet, the text that comes to the Senate Assembly today is the result of a work that has been carried out in the Commission, as my colleague, Mr Marino recalled, and as I wish to attest, in a climate of fruitful collaboration, to which all the actors involved have been able to contribute, starting obviously from the Government, which I thank, with the constant presence of the Secretary-General Gentile. In particular, thanks to the determination of Minister Anna Finocchiaro, Minister Calenda himself and I imagine also of the President of the Council Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, today finally this measure has come to the examination of the Assembly, but this work has also contributed to all the parliamentary groups of majority and opposition, which I too would like to thank for the positive climate with which it has been possible to work on such a complex bill. I also mention the many dozens of institutional entities, from the authorities to the associative, economic and entrepreneurial audit entities, which have helped to deepen the content. It was a work that saw us discuss, sometimes even animatedly, the merits of every single issue in order to find together the most useful and the most shared solutions on the numerous and complex issues present. With regard to competition, the draft law, already in the original plant with which it was fired two years ago by the then Renzi Government, had among the priority objectives to stimulate economic growth and to raise the level of competition in certain productive sectors and in the vast field of professional services. In our view, the text that is before the Senate today not only confirms these objectives, but in some cases, thanks to the work done in the Commission and before that by the Chamber of Deputies, it has strengthened its value. In our country, the difficulties experienced over the last few years in dealing with such a serious crisis also take into account limits that are present and to all of us known, obstacles of a often transversal nature that are placed against free competition in different sectors of our economy, largely due to corporate and unjustified resistance in the light of the evolution of the markets and of the increasingly fluid demand of goods and services, as well as to an internal regulation of the same markets in some respects now outdated and anchored to models of reference of the past. Vast are the sectors in which in recent years our country has jumped forward, but in other sectors there are serious delays and there are still numerous obstacles to be removed: from transport to credit to insurance, from the same world of services and professions, to the issue of energy that we face in this measure so full-bodied. As the regulatory authorities themselves have repeatedly pointed out, in particular by the Competition and Market Authority itself, entry barriers, as well as the regulations and restrictions placed on business, hinder the free initiative and limit the wider spread of goods and services for citizens and businesses and in the medium to long term lead to an increase in costs for consumers, which can be avoided and which is partly unjustified and, on the other hand, insufficient compliance of the national production fabric with the demands of an increasingly globalised and demanding market. When we talk about liberalization and opening up competition, let us be clear that on the one hand there is the issue of the market with more fluid, innovative and more open rules and, on the other hand, the polar star of consumers who must be able to draw, within a wider framework of competition, services and products at lower cost and with higher quality. The drive over time of strong limits to the expansion of principles and methods of spreading the practice of competition has already produced serious repercussions for our economic and entrepreneurial fabric. Increasingly, the failure to meet domestic demand for goods and services and supply is being resolved by the growing flight of consumers to other economies, beginning with the digital economy, which is replacing more and more traditional services. All this has been clear to us since the beginning and these are the premises with which we have approached a complex measure, but of which we had clear the value to help renew and strengthen the Italian economy and to avoid the risk of dramatically falling behind from other countries more developed and more open to the opportunities that the new world today offers more and more. In the light of these brief considerations, there is no doubt that less restrictive regulation and the removal of entry barriers and constraints on companies are factors that can contribute to a free, more open economic initiative, to produce that long-awaited increase in long-term investment rates, to boost factor productivity growth, to expand the supply of goods and services at low prices and, by this way, to generate more income and employment. The work carried out so far responds to this idea of liberalization and the measures taken are the result of an in-depth investigation which we have been able to promote thanks also to the contribution of the same authorities, which Mr Marino recalled and which engaged the Commission in a very long cycle of hearings and comparisons. Turning to the substance of some of the measures - I will deliver the full text, which I will now summarise in broad terms - and analysing some of the measures contained in the measure, it is clear that it intends to address the problem of competition not in a scattered but in a articulated way, i.e. by intervening both on the so-called network sectors and oligopolies and on the protected or regulated entry sectors. I follow this scheme to make the idea of the ambition of a measure, which has also been accompanied by many controversy and some misunderstandings, but which I consider useful to the country. The first group of measures concerns interventions in so-called network sectors, i.e. those in which the performance of economic activity by several competing actors requires the use and sharing of infrastructure that would not be efficient to duplicate. Consider, for example, the issue of electricity, gas and fuel. With regard to the issue of energy, one of the most full-bodied within this measure, important innovations are introduced. Among these the most significant concern in the perspective the cessation of the current transitional regulation on electricity and gas prices and the transition to the free market of the final customers, with the consequence full liberalisation of the retail markets. I'd like to get the adjective back. What we have been living for at least ten years is a transitional regime. I also say this in relation to the public debates and controversy that have accompanied the so-called overcoming of the greater protection. It is not optional for Parliament and the Italian Government to decide to overcome this regime. It was born ten years ago in order to ensure a transitional phase of accompaniment to the full liberalization of markets that meets not only Community rules, but also the plan of liberalization of this vast sector with such a great impact on the economy and life of businesses, citizens and families, that is, the energy sector. We are talking about overcoming a regime that has been transitional for too many years and we are doing so with the measures provided for in the original draft law of the Government, improved and strengthened during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies and - if I may say quite quietly - even more strengthened and made explicit by the work we have done in the Commission in the Senate, with the ambition of putting at the centre of this process of liberalisation not the market, but the consumer, a conscious consumer who becomes the protagonist of his choices, just as the Italian consumers have been able to do over the last ten or twenty years in other sectors of the Italian economy equally important and delicate (I think, one for all, in the field of telephony). Without going into the details of the measures (you will find them in the text that I will deliver), I would like to recall a concept that seems fundamental to me. I want to say this to those who have followed the long process of discussion of the measure both in the national press and among consumers, and among political forces, and I say this with particular sensitivity to the reasons that accompanied this debate here, between us, with particular reference to the positions expressed by the 5 Star Movement, with which we have been able to maintain an absolutely fruitful and positive relationship in the Commission (I would like to thank my colleagues Castaldi and Girotto in this regard): there can be no concern, when we build a system of rules that wants to accentuate the element of liberalisation in a market as complex as that of energy, when the rules put at the centre not the market, the oligopolists or the companies, but they put the consumer at the centre. If you read not only our modest reports, but the text of the measure, you will find an articulation of considerable measures, which goes in the direction of putting the consumer at the centre. It is a path that has begun for a long time, that we have strengthened and in which will participate, from here to a year and a half or to two years (think of a further extension of the start of this process to July of 2019), the Ministry of Economic Development, the Authority for the electricity the gas and the water system, the Antitrust Authority and the parliamentary Commissions, with a number of safeguards and guarantees. The energy part is perhaps one of the most significant parts of this measure, in which I believe there are rules, guarantees and safeguards for this process to be successful. Continuing to examine some of the measures we have identified, I am thinking of the issue of insurance, that is, that field we have defined oligopolies, that is, a system in which certain sectors and certain companies play an oligopolistic role. Even here significant measures have been introduced, strengthening the measures originally envisaged. In this context, competition measures focus in particular on the recognition of discounts and reductions in policy costs and on measures to combat fraud, which are one of the determinants of the annual increase in policy costs. The benefits expected from citizens and businesses appear to us to be of great importance. We have strengthened the role of the Institute for Insurance Supervision (IVASS) as regulatory authority and have included mechanisms, procedures and rules of transparency to achieve these objectives (you can read them in the text). The third and last major sector on which we intervene is that of so-called regulated entry sectors. My colleague, Mr Marino, spoke about this, as many of the sectors involved are concerned with the system of professions, but I would like to draw attention to another important issue, namely transport. We have included a delegation to the Government to implement, from now on to the next few months, a reform of the non-scheduled transport sector: a complex issue, much discussed, of great impact on the lives of citizens and cities. On the substance, I think that the time for regulation - let me say - is ripe, modern, efficient, not hypocritical, of a non-scheduled transport system that has more players. The main role - which no one has ever intended to question, but which we all want to make more modern - is that exercised by the taxi service, but it would be hypocritical not to grasp the news of the time that comes from the affirmation, increasingly significant in the daily life of each of us, of digital systems and therefore of web applications. This is a subject that cannot be resolved by a legal dispute sine die, which can and must regulate the presence in our country - certainly also within a framework of Community rules - of actors who have entered these as well as other services using web applications. I think of Uber, as well as a modern regulation, not hypocritical, in step with the times of the NCCs, which can no longer be imagined to regulate with laws of thirty years ago. We do so with a delegation, within which there are parameters and principles to be followed by the Government, which will have to lead, from here to the next few months, to the definitive assumption of responsibilities of institutional actors, Government and Parliament, in the regulation in modern terms to efficient this sector, so complex, of the daily life of all of us. Many have wondered about this measure if more could be done. I answer, of course, yes: much more could be done, but I imagine that this is only - I am sure - the first part of a path that, through the forthcoming competition laws (which I too, like everyone else, hope can be annual), in the coming months and years will inevitably lead to the removal of further obstacles to the more solid opening up of markets, triggering a virtuous circle of greater competitiveness and growth. A part of the work that belongs to all of us here has been done, albeit among minor obstacles, starting with the times of examination and approval which have multiplied completely inopportunely, as has already been mentioned. As far as I am concerned, I feel the need - I say this without inflaming myself and assuming my share of responsibility, together with my colleague Marino - to apologize to the Senate, to the citizens, to the economic subjects of our country who are waiting for the entry into force of some of these rules in order to have opportunities. When we talk about opening up markets, about paying attention to consumers, about liberalization, I think about this: building more opportunities. Our responsibilities - which I would like to mention for institutional correctness, although we have less of them than other political and institutional actors who have contributed to this impasse - do not excuse us, however, from remembering the goodness of the work that we have done and that I want to claim. I am among those who think that sometimes seeking the best is an enemy of good. For this reason, I hope that this work can be crowned by the rapid approval, in the Senate Chamber, of the text that we are delivering today. The measure contains enrichments and remodulations that some Members have proposed, which are also present in the numerous amendments tabled in this House. During the next few days, we will see what the final outcome of the vote will be in this House. There are adjustments to the issues of insurance and energy, which are enriching in the direction of increasing the attention to consumers and the opening up of the market, to which we, the rapporteurs, gave a favourable opinion from the first moment and which we have made our own. If we decide to vote on the amendments, we will vote in favour of them. I hope, however, that those remodulations, which the Government knows because we have discussed them together for a long time, can find room, if not in this measure, in an immediate one, because they are the enrichments and remodulations that we have shared. Mr President, I shall conclude. Despite all this, as my colleague Luigi Marino said, we rapporteurs have kept a consistent institutional profile, aware of the responsibility of having to manage such an important measure, never giving in to the desire to reply to the various evaluations, some of which are completely free, which on numerous public occasions we have read in the press, beginning with that of an alleged emptying of the liberalizing scope of the draft law under consideration. When we talk about emptying a measure - I would also say this to some colleagues, always in a very low and completely polite way - we imagine that we have decided to remove something that was there. In my memory, although I have spent some time since we started examining the measure, I have no news of any liberalizing measures which, by our side, the Government or during the parliamentary examination in the Commission have been removed during the long run. In fact, let me claim that on very important and significant issues such as insurance, energy, professional services, pharmacies, credit and transport, the opposite has happened. We have kept the bar of opening up markets to wider competition, one with the identification of an adequate system of guarantees for consumers and users that can avoid distortions and penalties. This was not an easy challenge, in the presence of issues of such wide interest in the country, on which we are witnessing a continuous arm wrestling between legitimate interests, however opposed. If anything, we regret that we have not succeeded, because of this complicated process, in further enriching the measure with measures that have been submitted to us in recent months by public debate or by the same parliamentary debate. I think, to give a few examples, of a regulation of the lobby that we would have liked (and perhaps would have been useful) to include in the measure, where it would have found its natural place. I am also thinking of the controversial, but no longer postponed, issue of a comprehensive regulation of the digital economy linked to so-called web applications, from transport to sharing economy. These are huge issues that I hope will find a modern and balanced legislative solution in the coming months. Unfortunately, the draft law under consideration has in recent months become the crossroads of political discussions which, although legitimate, have appeared and I believe are completely beyond the merits of the measures contained in it. Now it is a matter of continuing with conviction on this path, with the contribution of all, beginning with the wish that, taking advantage of mistakes and stumbling, the next competition law may be less ambitious, but more streamlined and targeted and, therefore, more incisive. For these reasons, I hope that the Senate will approve the draft law in question as soon as possible and I ask for permission to hand over the written text of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Gambaro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u9	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u10	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Higher Education Via dei Papareschi in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u12	What are you gonna do about it, Senator Castaldi? CASTALDI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on the report that has just been carried out.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u13	Senator Castaldi, as you know, the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title is postponed to another session. You will certainly be able to intervene on that occasion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u14	Mr President, I would ask you to be able to speak briefly on the order of business, without affecting what the Conference of the Leaders and the Presidency have decided. If I may, I would like to thank the speakers for the correctness shown today, recognizing the work of the oppositions and, specifically, of the 5 Star Movement. However, I would like to stress that this is the measure of the missed opportunities, with the challenges between the Ministries and former Ministers, the conflicts of interest and the lobbies, which unfortunately still have their weight. We - I say it with satisfaction - have managed to get clear rules in the jungle of telephone services...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u15	Senator Castaldi, you will have the opportunity to expand these considerations when the general discussion begins. Unfortunately, any intervention in this respect is currently precluded. I have given you an opportunity to state your views. We must now move on to another item on the agenda. Thank you, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u16	The next item is the vote on the resignation of Senators Minzolini and Vacciano. By letter received from the Presidency on 28 March 2017, Senator Minzolini announced that he would resign as Senator of the Republic. He asked Senator Minzolini to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is necessary, first of all, to reflect on what happened in this House on 16 March last, on a paradoxical story - let me say it again - which has dealt with the expenses of working lunches paid by a credit card given to me by RAI as a benefit, which the company contested after 18 months and which I promptly returned. For this story, someone wanted me to die. Well, I would like to say at once that the debate and the vote on my decadence was, in my opinion, a good page, which gave prestige to this institution. On that occasion, in fact, the Senate has returned to a correct approach on the issues of justice, has returned to assume the task that belongs to it and that the Constitution entrusts to it. That is why I am obliged to thank this House in its entirety. I would like to thank all my colleagues who have identified the objectives of their political action, regardless of their location, as the opposition, such as Forza Italia or the majority, as the other souls of the moderate centre, in guaranteeing and in the need for justice. I would also like to thank my colleagues in the League, who have managed to put these objectives of civilization ahead of pure and simple political calculation. But a special thanks go, above all, to those who sit on the opposite sides of this House. First of all, to the PD who, in choosing to give its Group freedom of conscience on such a delicate subject, which concerns the personal affair of a Member of Parliament, took an important step forward on the path of guaranteeing, especially those 19 senators who, with a clear vote, expressing an open judgment foreign to any logic of deployment, reaffirmed the right of the Senate to enter into the substance of the judicial case of its member, to verify if it was not conditioned by a fumus persecutionis or by a political prejudice. It was a test of courage of no small importance, especially in today's Italy, which gives breath not only to the institutions, but to the whole politics. I would also like to thank those who abstained, in this way expressing their doubts about a matter which, in the minds of many, apart from the vote expressed, has left so much perplexity; or who, not participating in the vote, has pointed out the same kind of reservations, in a different way. And, after all, I also thank those who voted in favour of my decadence, albeit on different grounds, because it gives me the opportunity to make a reflection, most necessary ever, in this delicate phase of the history of our country. There are those who have done so, like the 5 Star Movement, out of respect - they say - of legality, in obedience to a vision in which the law is an entity alien to the things of the world, which must always be applied in a sense, without taking into account the specific facts of each affair. Since the Passover has recently passed, it is a position that reminds me - let me compare - the words with which the great priest of the Temple, Caiaphas, asked for the death of Christ: That's what the law says... And there is, then, the singular position of who, while acknowledging that there are many shadows on my case, said that he would vote for my decadence for opportunity. An attitude that, remaining at the trial to Christ, I say it with all respect and sympathy, recalls Pilate. A behavior that, unfortunately, is the basis of the many injustices that humanity's history has consumed. To make the point, the positive fact of this story, I dare say historical, is that the Senate has expressed itself, for a large part, not on the basis of the logics of deployment, but of the individual convictions of each of its members. And he did it by public scrutiny, in the light of day. Take responsibility for it. This is the real conquest of that day, which brings us back to the dawn of our Constitution. The negative fact, however, is that many, including those who defended it in the referendum of 4 December last, do not know our Constitution at all. The editor of the newspaper, who dared to explain it throughout the country during the referendum campaign, also ignores it. For twenty days I have challenged him, in vain, to a public confrontation on these issues. He's running. He prefers to pontificate in the talks of the beautiful country, against me but without me: a sort of media lynching in absentia, proof of the ethics and professional ethics of those who propose themselves, often, as the champions of freedom of the press. I go further, precisely, by professional charity, because today I want to reflect on much more. The main accusation that has been made against that Senate decision is that not all citizens are equal before the law, that the caste has the bad habit of self-fulfilling. Now, to be clear, my case shows exactly the opposite. I, as a citizen, was acquitted and, even, a judge forced RAI to give me my money back. When I entered politics, I was sentenced, with a higher penalty than that demanded in two degrees of judgment by the public prosecutor: calibrated precisely to kick me out of politics. It's facts. As a matter of fact, these risks, of an over-exposition of politics, have also been assessed by our founding fathers, far more far-sighted than their successors. The Severino law, as you know, refers to Article 66 of the Constitution for its application, which - for the benefit of those who have not read it - is of exemplary clarity. It states, in summary, that the House of its own, in this case the Senate, judicature, the causes of incompatibility of one of its members. "Judica" is used in the Charter, that is, the verb that supports the judicial function. In short, evaluate the causes, make a judgment on the facts. And, beyond the lexical value, it is interesting to re-read the debate that our Constituent Fathers did on the subject, to understand how the intention was precisely to give this particular power to Parliament in such cases. The Constitutional Assembly, in fact, was able to choose between two verbs on that occasion: "verify" and, precisely, "judge." And for the latter they chose, above all, two fathers of our Constitution: the Christian Democrat John Leo and, with even greater fervor, the communist Umberto Terracini, who said: The House has a sovereignty that does not even tolerate any limitation in matters of minor importance. It may be a symbolic position; however, it means that any interference, even of the judiciary, is to be avoided, it is precisely the principle of popular sovereignty that is affirmed once again in the verification of powers. Words that leave no doubt. And, perhaps, instead, they scream, with the automatism - between sentence and decadence - that should preside for many to that law, badly thought and written worse, which is the Severino. Such an application is, in fact, coerced by the constitutional dictation. Of the two: either you change the Severino or you change the Constitution. Be careful, in order to avoid misunderstandings: Parliament does not have the power to interfere with the sentence (I am, in fact, the social services), but has the prerogative to evaluate the political effects of the sentence, to sterilize them, if it sees you behind a political exploitation. Article 66, in fact, has been imagined as an instrument of compensation, in the philosophy of the balance of powers provided for in our Charter, precisely in order to prevent the autonomy of the judiciary from the political power, which is a fundamental principle of our Constitution, from becoming a sort of subordination of politics to the judiciary. That's the point. Let me give you an example. If after the war there had been that sentence-decadence automatism that many glimpse into the Severine law, Pietro Nenni could not have been part of the constituent assembly. And again, half of the Communist and Socialist leadership groups could not have entered Parliament for crimes related to street demonstrations. Today, unfortunately, the issue is even more on the agenda. For the responsibilities of many. Because of politics, which in the past, on the one hand, has abused its powers and, on the other hand, has not had the courage to defend its prerogatives. Because of the judiciary which, over time, in some of its areas, has had a process of politicization that is before everyone's eyes (the polls are there to prove it): what happened to me, for example, to be judged by a judge who has been in Parliament for twenty years in the adverse field, can happen only by us. A problem that also denounce magistrates like Davigo and Di Pietro and that the new law approved by the Chamber does not solve at all. And, finally, because of the so-called media square. Exactly forty years ago, in the institutional iconography, there is the image of Aldo Moro who had the courage to say on behalf of those who were in the institutions at that time: We will not be tried in the squares. And those were squares made of men in the flesh. A year later there was his barbaric murder. Today this political class lacks the courage of an Aldo Moro, who defends it from a virtual media square, which travels anonymously on the web, which conditions Governments and institutions, hiding you know what interests. The risks of this degeneration are before everyone's eyes. Every day. The system is at the mercy of exploitations, of events that lengthen shadows and suspicions about our institutions. Starting with that interpretation of Severino, which has served to eliminate from the political scene a leader like Silvio Berlusconi. And the fact, undeniable, that the character Berlusconi remains central in the country is the most evident proof that the political destiny of people does not decide it the instruments of the leguleans or the media squares, but the people. If anything, there is a risk that the system, without an awareness, without a repentance, will collapse on its own, but for reasons completely different from those that Mr Di Maio imagines. But do you realize what happened last week? A country like ours, which for twenty years has lived having as totem the interceptions, discovers that they can be artifacts quietly. Here, in this House, we have not talked about it and it is serious, because the question is not about the Council inquiry (that the judges will deal with): it concerns, if anything, the finding that a modification made on a hoax is enough to jeopardize a government, to break down our system. And it can happen to anyone. Today it happened to Renzi, as in a recent past, conveyed in the same newspaper, an interception appeared that embarrassed the premier of that time, Berlusconi, against Merkel: that conversation that ended on the media all over the world, was never found in any report, in any cheating. In the face of such events, we remain stunned. This should be questioned by a political class worthy of this name, as well as by the risk of any decision taken in a public administration becoming, for nothing, an abuse of office. Not to mention the mayor candidates decided by a court of law. Instead, we remain unarmed, while the country declines. That is why I am happy with that vote a month ago on my story: because it shows that nothing is lost, that this Parliament, whenever it wants, is capable of defending its prerogatives. In that case, at least, he did. But let us come to the story of my letter of resignation, which I could not introduce without this premise. I say this to you, Mr President, that it is clear that this letter was my free choice, a coherent gesture compared to a commitment that I had made before the Council for Authorisations to proceed and then before this House. I have no obligation but to what I have said. I will be even more categorical: this is not the return game of that vote on March 16; if so, I would withdraw that letter without delay. That game the executioners of every creed and the interpreters of a Constitution at will have already lost it, period. Mine, if anything, is a coherent gesture, because I believe that coherence in politics is a value and that it is made of gestures and not words. We cannot criticize the Members' pension one day and another, and then, in due course, You're not gonna want to do that. One gesture would be enough: the resignation, for example, of the entire Parliamentary Group of the 5 Star Movement; at that point, it would put an end to the legislature and no one would mature what, in the artifact imagination of some, is the much-vaunted pension. But gestures require courage: if you do not have it, it would be better to keep quiet. Silence, in the end, avoids hypocritical and clever attitudes and, above all, protects dignity. And, precisely, the first step in defending the dignity of the institutions, for those who are present in this House, is to be aware of their role, why they are here and who they represent. In society there are those who are legitimated in their function by passing a competition or examination to access a professional order. Those who sit in these bars, on the other hand, are legitimized by the popular will: even with the worst electoral laws, have arrived here because millions of people have laid a card in the urn and must not forget it (the communist Terracini and Catholic Aldo Moro knew it well): he must fulfil the many duties he has towards those who elected him, but also defend the prerogatives of the institutions he represents and must do it with courage, because politics is not a profession, but first of all a mission. Only if you have this awareness is it worth staying here. For this reason, perhaps, the epigraph that should be put on the wall of this House and the exhortation that should keep lay people and Catholics in mind is that of a Pope who by his action changed the history of the last century and who in those difficult times made the impossible his belief: Don't be afraid. Yes, I say it to everyone: don't be afraid, because the worst sin for those who live in institutions is cowardice. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, Mixed, AP-CpE and LAG (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) and Senator Broglia. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u18	We shall now proceed to the vote on the resignation presented by Senator Minzolini.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u21	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senator Minzolini, it will be that I have a resignation record; I will be very concerned about the independence of the representatives of the nation and their free mandate; it will be that this experience in Parliament has helped me to understand the difference between privileges and prerogatives, teaching me to fight against the former, without prejudice to the latter; or it will be that I consider our responsibility and enormous the honor we have to prove in fulfilling the role of parliamentarians, for which only very serious personal reasons should lead to resignation from such an important commitment. It may be a bit of this, but I was reflecting that I am practically always speaking about the resignation of a colleague, perhaps because different cases are intertwined with different considerations and perhaps even with different votes. This is how it works: you analyze the case and draw conclusions, which cannot necessarily be the same, otherwise what would we analyze to do the cases? And so it was also in the so-called Minzolini case: it was not a question of saving, condemning or absolving a Member of Parliament; it was necessary to assess whether, in the specific case, the parliamentary prerogative aimed at preserving the independence between the powers was concerned or not. And indirectly, through the Minzolini case, this House has sent a clear political message: the question of magistrates who after a political experience go back to doing their old job and perhaps find themselves judging former political opponents, is a serious problem and not just because the issue concerns a parliamentarians, as it wants to make the usual populist propaganda understood. The problem is also serious for the credibility and authority of the judiciary and for the serenity and protection of every single citizen. However, as was easy to expect following that vote in the House, we saw a real media lynching, fueled by the usual cynical game of the massacre of those who speculate on people's anger and disinformation. Those who know the dynamics of social media well thought to exploit them by posting the faces and names of those who had stained of the great crime: vote in favor of Minzolini. Even some newspapers have favored, with ad hoc articles, the usual witch hunt, which then, unfailingly, unleashes itself on social media with threats and unparalleled offense. Why is this happening? On the one hand, there are certainly those who speculate, politically, in terms of demagogy and, economically, in terms of readers; on the other hand, there is certainly a hypersensitivity on the part of citizens to everything that appears as defence of the caste, resulting from too many cases, little honorable, that have involved the so-called Palace. This is why Mr Minzolini's gesture to resign, as promised, is generous and meritorious, gives greater strength to his political battle to disarm the controversy over the defence of a privilege and is respectful of the sentence of the judiciary. Mr Minzolini has offered us the opportunity to defend a fair political battle and a constitutional prerogative and now offers us the opportunity to deny the demagoguery. It's a class of style I'm not going to ruin by voting against his resignation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u24	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, I would like to draw up a number of elements which emerge from Senator Minzolini's speech, possibly on time. As for the first and most important, I thank Senator Minzolini because he recalled us to the lesson of the constituent Fathers and reminded us that in the organization the prerogatives of this Assembly - the prerogatives of the Senate - were not thought of as privileges, but as an element of a constitutional balance that in that historical moment, after the departure from the twenty years, offered an area of autonomy to the judicial power difficult to find in any other constitutional order. An area of autonomy justified by how that power had been treated and had been subjugated to executive power during the previous twenty years. Within a constitutional balance - because the Constitutions are balance - that incredible autonomy was somehow "balanced" and conditioned by special guarantees that were offered to the representatives of the people. It was a way to balance two powers, not to give special prerogatives, let alone privileges, to Members and senators. Constitutional balance is an ever-present problem, which we should always bear in mind and we must also bear in mind on this occasion. The second element that comes out of the words that we have heard and from all this is the relationship between the magistrates and politics, on which we will soon question. I believe that there are all the elements to avoid the excesses of different sign with which we are confronting these days. On the one hand pretending that this problem does not exist, where we have seen that in events like this the problem arises, sometimes even as a result not wanted, but objectively arises. On the other hand, I believe that it is just as much to criticize the intention of depriving a profession of those who, as magistrate, enter politics, in this way conditioning it in fact to have to remain there necessarily. I believe there is a different option, for which those who make the choice, as magistrate, to enter politics, can then find a worthy place within the public administration in a different function, safeguarding the fact of having won and passed a competition and, at the same time, of having assumed, at a time of their lives, for even noble reasons, a position of part that objectively conditions it and that makes it impossible to return to the same work that had previously done. These are background elements. Then there is a figure that instead calls us directly to this affair and to today's vote. The vote we expressed some time ago had a very strong political significance. Of Senator Minzolini's words, what I share most is that it is necessary in every way to avoid that today's one has lived as a sort of return match of what took place a few weeks ago. We are faced with a given, a letter of resignation that has been voluntarily written, but we are also faced with the circumstance that a acceptance of that will can be interpreted as a return match. Mr President, today we can also understand and discover the wisdom of parliamentary tradition, because parliaments and institutions are passionate, but they are also tradition. And this tradition, before you put it under your feet, you have to consider it well. There is an old custom for which, when a colleague voluntarily resigns, the House rejects them for the first time, and the second accepts them. This is precisely to prevent that act from being politicized. That is why, personally, I will vote against the resignation of Senator Minzolini today, ready to vote in favour of him if he returns the gesture of wanting to resign. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u27	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, Senator Minzolini made a speech this morning by linking the vote on his resignation to the vote he had cast some time ago on his forfeiture. I do not believe that this was a welcome intervention, because we are voting today on the letters of resignation of Senators Minzolini and Vacciano. The reasons for both senators in their letters of resignation are the arguments to be examined, and not the others that were the subject of the previous vote. Senator Quagliariello has just pointed out that, by parliamentary practice, resignation has always been rejected in the history of Parliament in the first vote and, if necessary, accepted in the second vote, i.e. if the request for resignation is repeated. Why do I not think that there should be a link between the vote on the decline and today's vote on the resignation? If this operation were carried out and there was a vote that accepted the resignation, this would give rise to an interpretation of that vote on the decadence that would certainly not honor the Senate. One could imagine that that was an inverse vote, that is, a vote voluntarily expressed by the policy of not respecting the laws. Already on that occasion I had the opportunity to say that - in my opinion - although Severino law requires the decadence of the law, the important circumstance that the decadence is in any case entrusted to a Senate vote means that Parliament has reserved itself a decision-making space, beyond the automaticism of the law. To reason otherwise means to express not so much a vote with a sense of return, but a sort of repentance. And repentance in our Catholic culture is in a sense an absolute practice: I commit sin, then I repent and, after repentance, I am free from all censorship and responsibility. I do not believe that those senators, who voted on Minzolini's decadence, rejecting it with a vote against, today instead, on the basis of a popular movement and an agitation of people's justice, intend to welcome them and express repentance. If so, they disown themselves and denote a culture which is certainly not appropriate to the high institutional role of those who sit in this House. I remember the phrase of a Member who is no longer there, of whom I still have an extraordinary memory for his magnificence. I am referring to Mr Filippo Mancuso, who said in a speech in this House - I sat beside him - that the justice of the people is tribal justice. Well, if tribal justice has conditioned today those senators who voted against the decadence of Senator Minzolini, I must confirm my conviction that Mr Mancuso was right, but I must - alas - also note that there are men and women in this House who do not have the courage to act. Today, for the first time, Minzolini asks to resign. We, by parliamentary practice, must reject them for the first time. Senator Quagliariello anticipated this, but I say it too: where we should never find ourselves again in front of a letter of resignation from Senator Minzolini, then I will vote in favour. In the same way, from now on, I will vote in favour of the resignation of Senator Vacciano because, despite my extraordinary appreciation for him, I cannot force him to stand in this Chamber against his will. I therefore anticipated in a single speech my vote against the resignation of Senator Minzolini and the vote in favour, but with regret, of the resignation of Senator Vacciano.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u30	D'Ascola (AP-CpE). Mr President, I am in advance of voting against the resignation of Senator Minzolini for the Popular Alternative Group to which I belong. I believe there is a clear connection of value between the vote against the declaration of forfeiture and the resignation presented by Senator Minzolini. Between that vote which clearly expressed Parliament's will and today's resignation there must inevitably be a demonstration of something different in the sense of modifying that judgment. I mean that between the vote against the declaration of revocation and the vote on resignation there must be perfect symmetry: it would not make sense to vote in favour of the resignation for those who voted against the decadence. I would say that it makes no sense on the legal side, because there is no reason for us today to lead to a sort of improper reversal of that vote. But I would also say that there is no reason for political needs. In fact, it is necessary to give a clear place to the letter of resignation of Senator Minzolini in the context of the affair that is dealing with us. It seems to me - and I do not think I am wrong - that they constitute a necessary act of humility on the part of Senator Minzolini: he asks Members of Parliament to express, outside the much more conflicting context of the declaration of decadence, their will to maintain it or not within the Parliamentary Assembly. This is a gesture of humility, a demonstration of the fact that the MEP not only enjoys that vote against the decadence, but by his personal choice, on his own initiative, puts his resignation at the heart of the parliamentary debate. And, if any reason has been given, it may cause him to present those resignations which, if accepted, would put him out of the parliamentary assemblies. Therefore, if we give this meaning to the letter of resignation and, if there is no evidence in the debate of the need to amend, for reasons relating to the right and political assessment, the composition of the present legislative Assembly to which we belong, it seems to me that the result is obvious. The House would stand in an absolutely unacceptable situation of conflict, with an even more in-depth and conflicting assessment, if today it agreed to accept those resignations which, among other things, in the meaning of Senator Minzolini's speech are manifested not of the will not to participate anymore in this legislative Assembly, but only of the will of a decent person; a person who says that, if we have considered the vote expressed, then we must accept his resignation because he voluntarily submits for the second time, and on this occasion voluntarily, to our judgment. If nothing emerges in this direction it seems to me that the speech is really easy and in a certain sense obvious. The many things we have heard in a certain sense are beautiful and are reason to confirm that we are a community. However, in some way - if you will allow me - they are superfluous. If nothing emerges in the political direction and in that of the right to change our decision, then another value must be given the utmost importance in guiding our vote: the collective, political interest this time, to the integrity of the plenum. This is the legal reference. There is no reason to undermine the outcome of the elections by accepting an instance of resignation which, in the sense of the speech made by Senator Minzolini, who claimed the injustice of the procedure that led to his request for decadence due to the insinability that has occurred, does not mean that he wants to leave Parliament. This is, however, the demand for a fair procedural position, on which we have spoken on more than one occasion, even - I recall - immediately after the outcome of the criminal conviction and which only wants to be a manifestation of humility. For these reasons I believe there is no reason to change the judgment by which the decadence for the inindacability that has occurred has been rejected. But above all there is no political reason to judge otherwise. On the contrary, the political reason concerning the good of the integrity of the plenum, which is not personal privilege, but is objective guarantee concerning the respect of the popular will, more than ever today it must be defended, in the sense precisely indicated to reject the request for resignation of Senator Minzolini. [[Applause from the AP-CpE, FI-PdL XVII and GAL Groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u33	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, in line with the position that my Group has already taken at the time on the need to apply the rules on the indistinguishability introduced by the Severino law, without entering into the substance of the case and refraining from any improper interference with the activities carried out by the competent judicial authorities, Group 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement will vote today in favour of the request for the revocation of Senator Minzolini. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Resign. WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Yes, resignation. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u36	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank those who listen to us. What was celebrated a few weeks ago in this House was not a moment of democracy or the affirmation of Parliament's sovereignty. It was a dark page, a time when the Senate denied itself. It was a time when Parliament voted something against the law that Parliament itself had voted for. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The real sovereignty of Parliament lies in the Parliament which voted on the Severino law, which provided for the forfeiture of those who receive a certain condemnation, which this House has decided not to approve. Minzolini thanked just that PD who saved him, unveiling what we had already denounced and the hypocrisy of his secretary, who the next day openly said - as we expected and as we had expected - that he would vote for the decadence, in fact denouncing his own senators, having many of his current voted against the decadence itself. We had foreseen this: in the press conference that took place immediately after the vote we said that Renzi would wash his hands of it. The real Pontius Pilate is Renzi. You wrote the Severino law. And it was designed to prevent this Parliament from being full of doomed people, because at a time of history in this Parliament the majority may have been doomed people compared to the totality. Someone appealed to the Constitution. Senator Minzolini says that the Constitution requires the Chambers to judge on the decadence, permanence, requirements and causes of their members. It is true: that Constitution was written at a particular historical moment - as some have mentioned - in order to protect Parliament's political autonomy with regard to the interference of other forces, such as the power of the judiciary. However, the part of the Constitution that contains these prerogatives has been debased and sterilized by the political class that you fully represent today in its highest expression, as you have done with other laws. Let's think about public funding for parties, which was born with good intentions to allow anyone to carry out political activities, and instead you made it a business, making the parties of real state-funded companies. We don't take public money of any kind. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Or think about funding the newspapers, which was also born with the good intentions to allow free information and then become a cow to milk to do the interests of the propaganda of each individual party. I would also like to respond to the provocation of Senator Minzolini that we could present the resignation in mass: unfortunately that is not the case. If it were possible to interrupt the legislature with the mass resignation of the 5 Star Movement Group, we would not do so tomorrow, but we would have done so yesterday. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Perhaps you should ask your political leaders what happened in 2013 when this hypothesis was ventilated. Someone else in this House should remember when the hypothesis of the resignation of all oppositions was ventilated, in order to put an end to what was born. At that moment it was his political strength, Senator Minzolini, that extended his arms and welcomed the PD into the home the Nazarene incision. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And it's useless to hide that this is the return game of that vote. Wanted or unwilling, it is the return match of that vote, and it is not so formally, but rather in substance. This is the opportunity for Renzi and the Democratic Party to redeem themselves from that vow and to resurrect themselves. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , because they understood how much damage it has caused their political strength to have voted in that way. We on this vote, in line with what has been done with regard to all other resignations, of any kind and any political force, even our own, will vote in favour. And I would remind Senator Falanga that at the first vote this House voted in favour of the resignation of Senator Ignazio Marino or Senator Ghedini, when the interest of the party was perhaps beyond the interest of the individual or of Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So let us try not to degrade this Parliament any further. If Senator Minzolini wrote his letter of resignation convincedly - as he said - as happens whenever a Senator writes a letter of resignation - he is well aware of what he is doing and must not act in the conviction that so much will not vote for them. It must not behave like in recent years, who have pretended to resign and have submitted their resignations in the knowledge that they would not be voted on, and then have no longer re-submitted them, except perhaps Senator Vacciano, who is the only one who is persevering in such a request. And I remember four times you denied them. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is why my parliamentary group, in line with what has been done on other occasions, will vote in favour of the resignation of Senator Minzolini. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u39	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the issues which Senator Minzolini raised again in his speech today are absolutely worthy, but perhaps it would always be appropriate to make a very serious argument on this matter, as a matter of urgency. In particular, Mr President, I refer to the calls and invitations from the President of the National Association of Judges Davigo himself - I would like to quote him - to take more decisions on our part to start a complete separation between the judiciary and politics, and therefore the parliamentary and party positions. When Davigo says that magistrates must never make politics, he points to a very important issue for the judiciary itself and for the effective separation of powers. I am saying this because of the issues that have been raised today, which are often discussed alongside our parliamentary activities, when, Mr President, perhaps they should be the subject of concrete decisions. You yourself are an example: after your candidacy, you have chosen to retire and many judges make the same choice with great consistency. These are issues which should be discussed in greater depth. I mentioned the president of the National Association of Judges because these are issues that are very close to the judiciary and that I do not think should be used to do an operation that sees politics on the one hand and the judiciary on the other or the judiciary against politics on the other. Having said that, Senator Minzolini has claimed his consistency in presenting his resignation and announcing them already during the hearing at the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. All the more reason, therefore - I say this with great frankness and sincerity - we cannot pretend that this claim for consistency has not been there, transforming today's vote into a sort of second appeal compared to the previous vote. Precisely because of the consistency claimed by Senator Minzolini - I also address the other colleagues - we can only give him notice: from this point of view, I believe it is in the interest of Senator Minzolini himself that his resignation be accepted. For this reason, the Senators of the Italian Left will vote in favour of the resignation, because it is about the credibility of the individual people and does not take away anything from the questions he posed. Senator Minzolini mentioned Terracini and Moro in relation to the need for Parliament and the Constitution to fully safeguard the autonomy of parliamentarians. However, this is not just a matter of time: this Parliament was born from the terrible experience of fascism - in a few days' time Gramsci's death will be anniversary - and everyone should know what it meant to be in that parliamentary period and fight their own battles. There is a strong imprint in our Constitution of that historical experience of our country with respect to the claim of autonomy. However - I always tell Senator Minzolini - we cannot even pretend that there is no law. The so-called Severino law exists and, if someone wants to change it, one should assume the responsibility to intervene to modify it. I remember that this law was passed in the last legislature also on the political side to which Senator Minzolini belongs. Is the law inconsistent and, indeed, is it contrary to our Constitution? This may be the object we should be dealing with as legislators, but that does not mean that the law exists. Today we intend to be consistent with the reasoning and assessments made when we voted in favour of the decadence of Senator Minzolini, in application of the law and beyond the judgment, which is obviously much more articulated, on the case. For this reason, and also for respect of the claim of the coherence of Senator Minzolini, the senators of the Italian Left - Left Ecology Freedom of the Mixed Group will vote in favour of the resignation presented by Senator Minzolini.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u42	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I do not want to answer either the tone or the arguments of Senator Crimi's meeting. I think that our debates can only be useful if we are able to use them to talk to each other and compare our ideas and not to "begin" already. The rallies are held in the square and not in the Senate Hall. WOMAN (M5S). Bravo! ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I also believe that it would be very useful for the dignity of the Senate if we were soon to vote by secret vote, that is to say, clearly, excuse me. [[Ironic comments from the M5S Group]] I repeat: with a clear vote. We know, however, that, for voting on people, the Rules of Procedure of the Senate provide for the secret vote and this requirement cannot be contradicted even by a vote of the Assembly. Before entering into the merits of the vote of the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party on the resignation of Senator Minzolini, I would like to express the hope that the discipline of the secret vote will be changed. In fact, in the Italian Parliament, the secret vote has lost much of its value and now serves little to protect the free expression of the Members called upon to express themselves on matters that hold their conscience and on which their vote must be protected both from the imperative mandate of the party to which they belong, and from unreasonable pressure from the public opinion. All too often, in the last legislatures, in the Chamber and the Senate, the secret vote has been used for political maneuvers, transversal tactics and power operations that have nothing to do with the conscience of the parliamentarians. Progressively, with majorities from both the left and right centre, the secret vote came in this way changing nature: no more vote of conscience and no more vote on high political values, but, much more modestly, a vote of small political opportunity. It was the distorted use of the secret vote in the years of Tangentopoli, when it was used as a shield for indefensible situations, that seriously undermined the institution of immunity that the 1948 Constitution provided to defend the democratic prerogatives of Parliament. This custom not only does not help to strengthen the credibility of the House and Senate, but negatively affects the relations between the Groups and the senators, insinuating suspicions and reducing the already fragile clarity of parliamentary politics. I would add that the citizens do not like the secret vote. They have the right to know how their representatives vote and are tired of the ballet of accusations and counter-accuses that, very punctually, are repeated at the end of each vote by secret ballot, when they publicly declare the opposite of what is then voted in secret. Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote to accept the resignation of Senator Minzolini, although there is - and has been recalled - a practice which would lead to their rejection in the first vote. However, this case is not comparable to most of the previous cases. Senator Minzolini has repeatedly expressed his will to leave the Senate. He did so in the House; he did so in writing with a letter of resignation; he repeated it even recently in various public statements; he confirmed this earlier, with a wealth of arguments and motivations, always announcing that he wanted to abandon his position as a senator, regardless of the negative or positive outcome of the vote of the Assembly, which weeks ago concerned him and with which he was decided on his decline. That vote rejected the hypothesis of decadence, but Senator Minzolini made it clear that for him it was not only a matter of honour and consistency, but also a political position, with which he intended to strengthen his declaration of innocence, compared to the findings of the procedure that saw him succumb to the Supreme Court. In essence, I understood that Minzolini resigned as a senator also to confirm that, in the past months, he did not intend to defend his armchair, as much as to reaffirm his innocence: it is an act that we must appreciate and respect. But there is more: besides being an act of political dignity, resignation is also a consequence of his will, expressed publicly, to return to the profession of journalist. Minzolini has been a journalist, envoy and director all his life and the aspiration to return to his natural profession is understandable and positive. These legitimate and reasonable expressions of will lead to the exclusion, beyond any reasonable doubt, that Senator Minzolini may have been induced to resign from circumstances outside his personal convictions and, also because of the firmness with which they have been manifested, that he may revise his orientation and withdraw his resignation. For these reasons, in the presence of such strong motives and as has happened before in this legislature, the Senate must accept resignation from the first vote and in this sense will vote the senators and senators of the Democratic Party. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u43	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot on the resignation submitted by Senator Minzolini. Senators for resignation will press the green button at the center of the voting position; opposing senators will press the red button on the right; senators who intend to abstain will press the white button on the left. As this is a secret ballot vote, whatever the choice of vote is made, the light that will turn on will be neutral in colour. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the secret ballot vote on the resignation presented by Senator Minzolini: [[Senators present 252 Senators voting 251 Majority 126 Favorables 142 Contrars 105 Absent 4]] The Senate approves. (Congratulations to Senator Minzolini.) I hereby authorize the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to convene immediately to proceed with the determination of the successor candidate to the resigning senator. We now come to the debate on the resignation presented by Senator Vacciano. By letter received from the Presidency on 26 January 2017, Senator Vacciano reiterated his request to resign as Senator of the Republic, which had already been rejected at the sessions of 17 February 2015, 16 September 2015, 13 July 2016 and 25 January 2017. He asked Senator Vacciano to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have already heard a lot of words today, so I do not add any more. You know my story and my motivations, which I've been telling you over the last few months. I am pleased to support the demands of those who are concerned about the costs that this institution bears because of the discussions that concern me. I would just like to thank you, in particular, Senator Falanga for his fine words and to reiterate that it has been a privilege and an honor to be in this institution. I shall leave you to the vote and ask you to support it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u45	We shall now proceed to the vote on the resignation presented by Senator Vacciano.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u48	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, and above all, Mr Vacciano, quality policy in the institutions is only possible if we are elected of quality. Senator Vacciano, although he has arrived in this House for a series of astral and fortuitous coincidences, has proved to be worthy of this role. On the quality of politics and on the merit that people have or do not have to find themselves political, yesterday Ernesto Galli Della Loggia expressed himself in a lucid price on the "Corriere". In summary, he writes that politicians, but never parliamentarians, are constantly being misrepresented. This is because Parliament, as such, still enjoys its prestige. The Italians know how important this is within a democracy and they do not resent the institution. The critical point is in those who live in the institution, because they appear as men and women covered by privileges that no one else has and, at the same time, lacking in qualities that justify the attribution of those privileges. The crisis of confidence in the institutions is mainly due to this. In a time of crisis, citizens see in the prestigious command posts a host of people inadequate to their posts. For my part, I can only agree and, of course, I personally put myself in that category. The elected members of the Movement, as a new group (but not only them) currently in Parliament, have come here mainly luckily: the set of a particular historical moment and an electoral law designed precisely to leave to party leaders (at the time, however, we believed that Grillo was only the megaphone, not the master) the choice on whom to place in eligible positions has obviously fueled the discreditation of this class. In particular, those who were elected in the 2013 round found themselves on the list for a mere question of fortuitous events. I am referring to the current exes and non exes; a series of events in which merit really had a miserable, almost non-existent, value and recognition. I would, however, like to make a small stop to this speech. The merit of a person is also measured in the responsibility and commitment that, once assumed a position, he puts in recovering the characteristics that he has not, in short, in the efforts made to become worthy of the office and worthy of the responsibility and prestige acquired. And that's what Senator Vacciano did. As often as I write and speak against those pentastellates who scold and accuse other politicians for excess of privileges, when they are often the first to do nothing to become more worthy of their office, in my small job every day to become more competent, to inform me, to know the best everything necessary to do my job and to carry on the battles that are dear to my heart, taking responsibility for voting, not remaining in eternal abstention. In this I believe, in the ability to question and engage. I believe that we should measure those who enter politics, not least because this characteristic often implies dedication and transparency, which are also the basis of the relationship of trust between institutions and citizens. I conclude by saying that Senator Giuseppe Vacciano has shown that he knows how to accredit himself to the institutions, demonstrating the value that must exist in the relationship between institutions, elected and citizens. I will of course vote, for the fifth time, against the resignation of Senator Vacciano. They have now become a mantra, a rite that at this point has reached the Guinness of the primates and I believe that no one else will be able to reach the quantities of resignation that Senator Vacciano has presented, since we are one year after the end of the legislature. Of course, I will vote against his resignation and invite the senator not to repeat it again.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u49	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Classical High School Ettore Majorana - General Antonio Cascino of Piazza Armerina, in the province of Enna, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u50	Pursuant to Rule 113 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the secret ballot on the resignation submitted repeatedly by Senator Vacciano. Senators for resignation will press the green button at the center of the voting position; opposing senators will press the red button on the right; senators who intend to abstain will press the white button on the left. As this is a secret ballot vote, whatever the choice of vote is made, the light that will turn on will be neutral in colour. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the secret ballot vote on the resignation submitted by Senator Vacciano: [[Senators present 227 Senators voting 226 Majority 114 Favorables 90 Contrari 129 Absent 7]] The Senate doesn't approve. AIROLA (M5S). You're shameful! You suck! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senators, I don't think your comments will interest students from the Piazza Armerina high school who follow our work. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u53	LUCIDES (M5S). Mr President, I would like to bring to the attention of this House the case of our compatriot Gabriele Del Grande. Gabriele has been arrested in Turkish prisons for about ten days, for no apparent real reason that can actually justify this arrest. No one has at the moment been allowed to visit him because of the Turkish authorities' refusal. Gabriele is currently in isolation and has started a hunger strike with her partner Alexandra joining in these hours. The news that we have and that is circulating about him at the moment is that the lawyer who has been appointed of his own motion is unable to participate in the interrogations precisely because of the refusal by the Turkish authorities. What I am asking for, and I am asking for the support of this House, is for the Foreign Minister, Mr Alfano, to come and report to this House, to the Commission, or where he will prefer to do something about what he is doing on the ground, the information he has officially, and especially what has been done so far. I would like you to come and clarify, in particular, the international relations between the Italian and Turkish States. From a brief research that I have just carried out, it appears that our country has only concluded three conventions with Turkey on this matter. One is the Convention on judicial protection and mutual assistance of judicial authorities in civil and criminal matters and the enforcement of judicial decisions, dating back to 10 August 1926. We then have a treaty of friendship, conciliation and judicial regulation with exchange of notes, dating back to 24 March 1950, and we have a Cooperation Agreement in place on combating terrorism, organised crime and illicit drug trafficking - but this does not seem to me to be the case with our fellow countryman - which dates back to 1998. We therefore ask for information not only on the specific case, but above all on the way in which the Minister of Foreign Affairs intends to diplomatically protect our compatriots abroad. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u56	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking about the situation in Piombino of the workers in the steel plant. Yesterday another meeting took place at MISE to resolve the issue of AFERPI S.p.A. and hundreds of workers waited with apprehension for the outcome of the comparison between property, trade union representation and local institutions, in front of the Ministry. For months workers and trade unions have denounced a stalemate, which we immediately denounced from these classrooms. For years there has been a slow but constant dismantling of the production site and to date there are no plans of redevelopment of the territory that can make thousands of families hope. The city is practically dying little by little, as denounced immediately in these classrooms by us of the 5 Star Movement. After yesterday's intervention, even the highest institutions have recognized that the company led by Issad Rebrab, president of Cevital, has once again brought the same information last March meeting: no concrete proposal for the relaunch of the production site and commitments still too vague by the company; so for the AFERPI issue there is talk of contractual non-compliance. The Minister will send AFERPI a letter inviting the Government to fulfil its commitments; otherwise, the request is to sign an agreement to extend the surveillance period until 2019. This letter, which in fact denounces the lack of respect for the timing and projects of AFERPI planned for these two years, will open possible scenarios: the response of the company in which the non-compliance or the acceptance of the support of the Government is denied; to avoid, as the unions emphasize, a legal dispute, which would further immobilize the fate of the plant. The agreement signed by Cevital and the extraordinary commissioner of the steel mills of Piombino at Palazzo Chigi in December 2014 in the presence of Renzi, the Minister of Economic Development and the President of the Region of Tuscany Rossi had a great media relevance, but it was a failure, denounced immediately here by the 5 Star Movement. In short, we have tabled questions, to which no answers have ever been given; we have denounced the tragic and terrible situation in the city of Piombino; we have denounced how many citizens have lost their homes and how many activities have closed down, because of the insecurity of a territory that has always been forgotten by politics. I remember that this policy, two days from the administration, had become beautiful, with great fussings of the President of the Region, of the former president of the Council Renzi and of all the institutions: they have drawn us again the famous red peste "Beppe Grillo" of which Beppe said from the squares of Piombino and to which many criticisms came also from the workers, except then realize today that something in that territory did not work. Today in that territory the workers' own guardians have found themselves taking note that someone has played the game against them. Well, today we are still waiting for answers from the Government and we very much hope that a solution will be found even at the cost of nationalizing all the steel industry that this country and this Government have never taken seriously. Mr President, thank you for your time and I hope that for 2,500 families - it is a whole city - there will be proper care and proper protection on the part of the State. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u59	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, thank you for allowing me to speak out of time. I would like to add the Democratic Party's request to what has already been said in relation to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation to give us information about the fate of our fellow citizen, journalist and director, Gabriele Del Grande, who has been imprisoned for eight days in Turkey. From the Foreign Affairs Committee, emigration, my Group has already made this request to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, which has assured us through various ways that the Italian consular channels are interceding and, perhaps, reaching our fellow citizens as well. I think, however, that an official reply from the Minister in this House is particularly useful and timely. I would also remind you that the President of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, Senator Manconi, has launched a collection of signatures to support this position, which, moreover, in this case concerns an Italian citizen, but which in this period and these days, in a country like Turkey, which is our friend, is proposing itself on more than one occasion. It is clear that our relations with this country must also be meditated on and evaluated in depth with the Turkish authorities themselves. We believe that Turkey is a fundamental bulwark in the defence against terrorism and also in the transit routes of migrants, who demand guarantees for their survival in the war situation. A country, however, which is part of international bodies and NATO, undertakes or should commit itself to respect human rights and fair judgment towards its citizens and foreign citizens who operate on that territory. I therefore believe that it is quite urgent for us that there be a response from the Minister or his Undersecretaries in this House on the initiative that the Italian Government intends to take to protect this citizen and, more generally, to restore democratic freedoms in a country to which we care a great deal for its strategic role and for the friendship it has with us in the Atlantic Alliance. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u62	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, my speech is addressed to the Minister for the Interior, Minniti, who was here until a few minutes ago, but I no longer see him. The Group of the North League yesterday presented a new question on the subject of the reception system, after the one of 30 March last, always addressed to the Minister of the Interior, which has remained unresolved. Why did we introduce her? In the numbers of the immigrant reception system we detect some anomalies. While over the last four years the number of asylum seekers and refugees received in the reception system has increased exponentially (22,000 at the end of 2013, 66,000 at the end of 2014, 103,000 at the end of 2015, 176,000 at the end of last year), from 1 January to today the numbers have remained substantially unchanged, so they are about 177,000. What happened? Did they freeze and clear the entrances? Absolutely not, because yesterday's data from the Ministry of the Interior says that since 1 January 37,000 people have arrived, more 45 percent compared to the same period last year. Similarly, since the beginning of the year, nearly 38,000 people have applied for asylum. I remember that when a person asks for asylum, he automatically enters the reception system, which should therefore register 210,000 people. Is the number of relocations to other EU countries equivalent? No, because only 2,500 people were relocated at the beginning of the year. In essence, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that we should have registered 210,000 people in the reception system today and, instead, we find only 177,000. We wonder what happened. Are there about 35,000 people who have left without justifying it from the reception system? We ask precise questions to the Ministry of the Interior and we demand, for transparency, answers, also because since yesterday in the reports, almost daily of the Ministry of the Interior, in addition to the number of entrances and the number of relocations, the number of those who are placed in the reception system has disappeared - as happens - also the number of those who are placed in the reception system. To give a constant number compared to the end of last year does not mean at all that the problem of immigration has been solved, but rather indicates that something is not right. We therefore renew the invitation to the Ministry of the Interior to reply to the question 4-07375.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-20-LEG17-Senato-sed-810.ana.u63	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 11.45 p.m.
