ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:39 hours) begins. Colleagues, I inform you that the Presidency Council is under way. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 9.40 a.m. and resumed at 10.23 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency Council met in accordance with Rules 12 and 67 of the Rules of Procedure with reference to the events which occurred at the Assembly meeting on 15 June 2017. The Council heard the senators involved who requested and found the Reports and videos related to the meeting, taking the following determinations. The Council firmly deplores all the conduct carried out by the senators who upset the order of business and adopt attitudes and uses of censorable language towards the institution, the Presidency and a Parent Group of the House of Deputies. For these reasons, the following sanctions were imposed unanimously, with immediate effect, in accordance with Rule 67 of the Senate Rules, against senators: Calderoli and Volpi, censorship; Arrigoni, Council, Crosio, Divine and Tosato the censorship and ban to participate in the proceedings of the Senate for a day of session; Hundreds of censorship and a ban on taking part in the Senate's proceedings for two days of sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u7	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise to propose that the agenda be reversed, in the sense of first dealing with the measure concerning the Municipality of Sappada, which asked many years ago to move on to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia region, postponing the measure on the anti-mafia code. We have seen what problems there have been with regard to coordination, then they have become amendments; there are still coordinations and in recent days there have been clear problems with the text. Only one amendment has been tabled on the measure inherent in the Municipality of Sappada and there is no difficulty, so there is no reason to postpone it. On the other hand, with respect to the anti-mafia code provision, various problems have undoubtedly emerged: beyond the criticalities of the content - that is another aspect - technical problems have emerged regarding the coverage. Yesterday there was almost a debate with the Budget Commission and its President: it is always good that such a debate should take place in this House, where necessary, but I think it would be more appropriate to settle those points which still remain doubtful and then examine the measure, at that point with the clearest ideas, only once the one on Sappada has been completed. This municipality, however small, has been waiting for a long time and has the right to see recognized as decided by a very participated referendum. I therefore believe that, in order to improve the work of this House, it would be more appropriate to reverse the agenda and, consequently, to anticipate the examination of the measure on Sappada.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u8	A senator may intervene in favour of and against the proposal to reverse the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u11	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I will speak in favour of the proposal made by Senator Malan, because I believe that the reasons put forward are broadly acceptable. Not only has the story of Sappada become central in our debate, so much so as to require a quick decision (although I do not know how much it will gain from the passage to the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, governed for the moment by Serracchiani; however we will vote in May and if anything things will change); but the intent of the proposal made by Senator Malan to the Assembly as an element of reflection for colleagues is not instrumental, but sensible. Here I am really serious: this morning, reading the newspaper, as my custom, and not the press review, I read an article that I want to quote half an hour from the Annual Report of the President of the Anti-Corruption Authority Canton, that I do not know if it will address the subject today, because perhaps, being a formal act and a ceremony, it will only report the data of the body's activity. The article I have read is by Liana Milella, a jurist's note of the Republic, who - as colleagues who are experts in justice know - is worth more than the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court: here too I say it ironically, because it dictates the line, establishes when to approve the measures and helps to make the tables of the laws that must be approved, among which this anti-Mafia code (which must be approved, we agree). So this morning I read the following clasp of Canton, quoted in the above article of Milella, on page 3 of today's daily newspaper "La Repubblica": "Visto? Of course I did not speak to the salami maker; then it is not my fault that I was audited in Parliament even on school canteens, but no one thought to call the President of the DAC when a devastating change was about to be made - referring to the one introduced by the anti-mafia code - which will kill prevention measures. It is not only I who say it but also Canzio (who, for those who did not know it, is the first President of the Court of Cassation), "Fiandaca" (jurist's name), "Cassese" (known prince of Italian law, professor, former member of the Court), "Flick" (former President of the Court), "Rossi," "De Lucia." Have we all gone crazy? That's what canton says. This is from this morning, I'll add it because it's fresh, while I won't remember what I said in recent days in even more meditated interviews than Cantone. Now, Liana Milella, on which I often humor or criticize her, but live, is a reliable reporter and journalist or, as President Zanda knows, she is considered an authoritative voice in matters of justice. Well, she has picked up this further vent of Cantone. We want to make the anti-mafia code, but Senator Malan's proposal to put the bill on Sappada before the first item on the agenda allows us, in due form, to create a stronger anti-mafia code. Mr President, I say this very seriously. In 1999 I was already a Member of Parliament - alas, I believe that this is a grave fault today - and it was I who presented the bill of extension of 41-a, which at the time was a final proposal. I heard a cry of alarm from the Palermo Public Prosecutor, of whom you were not then, President, the prosecutor, who asked us to renew it. There was the Prodi Government and then the D'Alema, and I proposed an extension. I was the Minister in the Government who stabilized 41- bis, making it a permanent rule of the Italian State. I was a group leader in the last parliamentary term when, unanimously, we made the rules of confiscation of property more effective to the thighs, gathering a legal, political and moral debate that in the country has certainly seen you too, President, among the protagonists, for the roles and the experience you have gained. It is not, therefore, that there is the party of the Mafia, which does not want the code, and the party of the anti-Mafia, which wants it: there must be the party of the right that establishes the right and strict norms, that are even more inexorable towards the Mafia. But if all these people tell us these things and today canton, speaking with the Republic, they ask themselves "maybe we all become crazy" if we do these reliefs, it means that they are qualified and experienced sources, as well as our own. Each of us, President, despite not being a prosecutor or anything else, has made a contribution to the country's legislation, in the sense of greater severity towards the thighs and criminal organizations. I want to reiterate all this because otherwise, in the end, it seems that those who do obstruction want to favor who knows who. We want to promote the law, the certainty of punishment, legislation that avoids confusion and litigation. In fact, we believe that obstructionism is then going to the House, change and then return: to make a law saying that it will be changed to the House and will return to the Senate. We are on July 6 and as far as the legislature can go, more than six or seven months of horizon are not there. Who's obstructing? Who asks to earn two days to introduce more careful or careful norms or who says to approve it, so the Republic will put the toll booth, the provision will return to the House, and then we already know (from Orfini, the Democratic Party and everyone) that it will be modified, and then come back here? Obstructionism is done by those who legislate in vacuum, knowing that they make technically wrong choices; serious legislation instead wants to do it by those who, like us, ask one more day for reflection to make one less mistake. For these reasons I agree with Senator Malan's proposal. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u14	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am speaking against Senator Malan's proposal, not to take time or waste (I have also looked on the side of the majority to see if anyone would raise their hand to oppose this proposal). I am opposed to the reversal proposed by Senator Malan, because I am curious to see how the anti-mafia code ends. I've been curious from the beginning to see how it ends. What happened yesterday is a matter of absolute gravity; we tied hands and feet on our own. After the last three explanations of vote, we will be able to deal with the famous final coordination that is required; I now announce, Mr President, that considering that this coordination is not such, because it does not harmonise anything contrary to Rule 32, but instead goes to clarify what is not written in that article - which, I recall, has already been voted on twice - I will ask for a convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, in order to verify whether that coordination is admissible, whether it is a coordination or not, in fact, a disguised amendment. Frankly, if I had been one of the rapporteurs, I would have tabled an amendment with an additional article specifying and explaining that the 20 million allocated to Article 32 were 7 million for 2018, 7 million for 2019 and 6 million for 2020. However, it is all in the light of the sun, without presenting a proposal for coordination which is obviously not acceptable. I would remind everyone, however, that each senator can submit his own proposal for coordination. It's not a threat, it's not a "criminal incitement," but if I didn't think like I do about the anti-mafia code, I would. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u15	I put to the vote the proposal for a reversal of the agenda put forward by Senator Malan. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u16	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2134, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Gadda and others; Garavini and others; Old and others; Bindi and others; Bindi and others; Formisano and a bill of popular initiative, 456, 799, 1180, 1210, 1225, 1366, 1431, 1687, 1690, 1957, 2060 and 2089.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u19	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, as you know very well, almost all the laws are perfectible, but certainly the changes to the anti-mafia code in our examination would need several improvements. Meanwhile, they would need a majority and opposition that had spoken and listened, but that was not the case. Then they would need greater coordination between the Legislative Offices of the House and the Senate and would probably have avoided material errors in Marche, to which the Justice Commission sought how it could remedy, and perhaps even the scene, which has not yet ended, of final coordination, would have been avoided, in order to respond to the objection of the Budget Commission on financial cover. Of course, this coordination could and should have turned into an amendment, either in the Commission or in this House. Then there is something else, and I want to say it frankly, and I would like to say it to my fellow Members on the right, who often speak about it. In almost all the measures that come from the Justice Commission of the Chamber of Deputies and which pass through the hands of your Presidency there is a tendency that I would call dangerous, which to me seems to be to co-ordinate the free conviction of the judge and to create automatisms, which in criminal proceedings are very dangerous. We are therefore well aware that we could have done better and that what we are considering is a compromise, determined by the fact that Parliament has been misled by 'weapons of mass distraction', such as constitutional reform, which has then been resoundingly rejected by the great majority of Italians, and the electoral one, which has been dismissed by the Council. Sometimes it seems to me that the measures that are coming to the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, at the end of the parliamentary term - all sensitive measures, which often have to do with rights - have been considered by our majority of government as the candidates in the Sicilian cassata, which are a bit of a baroque condiment, for the benefit of the image and the sight, while the substance of the cassata is the cream of ricotta that is inside. This is a bad service to the institutions and there is a risk of paralyzing Parliament in an unconstructed struggle. Having said that, to be honest, I have to ask myself whether this is the reason why the right - we have listened to the speeches of Senators Malan and Gasparri - is making fire and flames. I don't think so, dear senators, I don't think so, dear President. I have the feeling that the real reason for this strong hostility is that the changes to the anti-mafia code affect crimes against public administration and corruption. They are crimes for which in Italy are almost always responsible for men, political personalities or those who have relations with such personalities. We know that they are people who, in our country, very rarely end up in prison, unlike countries like Germany or the United States, which we often love to take for example. Today, in order to protect the impunity of people who are often responsible for a heavy damage to the economic and democratic life of the country, should we block the measure? I think we can't do that. The right-wing colleagues ask why they wanted to intervene with the preventive seizure of the capitals whose origin cannot be explained, the result of a corruption committed in association, within the anti-mafia code. What does this have to do with anti-mafia? The answer is the one that gave Aureliano Buendía: "Hoc est simplicissimum": the Mafia, in fact, sees in the crimes against public administration and corruption of ancillary crimes. The prosecutors of Trapani and Reggio Calabria have often told us that those in those two provinces of Italy keep the money for the very powerful Mafia criminal organizations are not a member of the organization. It is the mobsters who ask not to adhere to those who hold the money because once they are taken, this is accused of corruption and the impunity guaranteed by the prescription is triggered in his favor. Do we want to deprive the magistrates of Reggio Calabria and Trapani of a useful instrument? The preventive seizure of assets, so determined, is an important instrument in the hands of the judiciary (and not only), to which we cannot give up. However, this is not enough. The right-wing senators argue that the measure under consideration will not pass the scrutiny of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, since the seizure of assets cannot be introduced as a preventive and discretionary measure. The property cannot be touched. Frankly, I do not believe that either the Council or the European Court of Human Rights will consider the heritage today as a consubstantial extension of the human person and, therefore, of his inalienable rights. But that is not the only issue. The fundamental point is that if there is a mafia emergency, we need to know that there is a very strong corruption emergency. [[Applause from Senator Campanella]] Collegi, I told you about Reggio Calabria and Trapani, but if you went to Palermo - which I invite you to do - you would have the feeling that the mafia no longer has the "breath" on that city. In some neighborhoods of the center the mobsters and capimafia ask traders to release the tax receipt. The mafias, affected by the clash of magistrates and police, have reduced themselves to dealing again with drug trafficking, which was a sector that the mafia preferred to avoid, because the crime is easy to prosecute; the mafias therefore want there to be no boredom in the neighborhood and traders to release the tax receipt. But in Palermo the mob is still there, as the people who deal with it tell us. She's not a white-collar mafia, she's a business mafia and she's a finance mafia. It's a liquid mob. In order to combat it we must strike the crime that is the condition of the mob, that is the crimes of corruption and against the public administration. There is a third consideration that I would like to bring to the attention of this House. In recent years corruption has spread in the country, because while there is a piece of our economy and society that is not only European but is ahead, there is another that works only for the internal market. To put it clearly, a part of our economy and society works only, or almost exclusively, of public contracts, where corruption is the hall of the contract between corrupt and corruptor, between entrepreneur who necessarily wants the contract and politician who wants to give it because so can prove that things go on. Corruption is not only rampant, but - it is a new phenomenon - it often invokes the intervention of the mafia and, where there are no mafias, it is used to an intimidation of the mafia type that the magistrates of Rome have called new mafia. In fact, in essence, in order to achieve the last mile of the corruptive contract, with distribution of bribes, it is better to have someone who threatens and intimidates. We are faced with the risk that corruption will cause the mob to spread even more over the entire national terrain. For these reasons, I believe that the measure in question is useful and the Left-Italian component - Left Ecology Freedom of the Mixed Group will vote in favour. In conclusion, I would like to address two other points very quickly. Soon we will commemorate Judge Borsellino. Every time we talk about our martyrs, praise is wasted, but I fear they are forgotten in reality. Senators, almost fifty years ago it was my turn, then young man, to write things that at the time seemed bizarre. I wrote that the mob was not only a killer but mainly an intermediary. The image was that of the two-faced Giano, with a face turned to the Roman power and a face turned to Sicily. I wrote that it was useless to send the mobsters to the border and that it was necessary to hit them in the patrimony, in the robe, because that was the point. These positions seemed then the ideological delusion of a more or less revolutionary minority not importable within the rule of law. This has been the case, ladies and gentlemen. In 1982 the so-called La Torre and Falcone Law was enacted, and Falcone would not have been Falcone if he had not followed the path of money, without forgetting the fundamental role of transition that a magistrate like Chinnici, who was killed for this. When we remember our victims then, we remember what they died for, because using these kinds of tools, having an idea of the law and the dynamic state and not stuck in merely formal grids was necessary to fight the mafia and it is still so now. I said that we will vote in favour of this measure when we examine it. I would add, however, that on one thing Gasparri is right: the statements of the President of the PD are embarrassing and very worrying. I'm not talking about canton and I'm not talking about Flick because we're gonna argue with them. I think President Bindi is right, but if the measure is wrong, we will have time to correct it. But I am talking about Orfini: why is Orfini only now discovering that that kind of interdiction and seizure cannot be used against corruption? Why didn't you find out before? Who followed the course of this provision? I have the feeling, as I said before, that these laws have been treated like the candidates of the famous Sicilian cassata and that today they are inopportunely afloat, because the legislature has not been interrupted and because the famous reforms have been a failure, and then we are concerned mainly for reasons of electoral type and there is the risk that, if this goes on and if after our approval - which I hope - the House should put its hand back on the measure, it would end up in a dead track. This risk is being taken for this measure and for many others under discussion. I would like, and I hope that this will happen, for the opposition and the majority to have a leap of pride and an attempt to avoid a miserable end to the legislature. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and Art.1-MDP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u22	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement has supported this measure in the Commission, although we have pointed out on several occasions the many problems, in order to remedy which we have tabled and tabled many amendments. We have also voted in favour of many articles in this House because we share, unlike Forza Italia, other centre-right forces, the need and urgency for a reform of the single anti-mafia text. Above all, we are in favour, contrary to the centre-right, of extending personal and property prevention measures against suspects of serious crimes such as corruption and concussion. That is why we have held a responsible attitude which has allowed the measure to reach this point. Of course, we would have written this in a different way because there are still many critical points, among which, first of all, I would like to mention the adoption of the amendment introducing the associative link for the application of prevention measures to corrupt and corrupters who weaken the text voted in the Commission. Well, the introduction of that rule represents a serious downward compromise. I ask you, then, whether a downward compromise is acceptable when we talk about mafia and corruption. I don't think so. I do not think it is acceptable, all the more so if the risk is that of a real step back in the contrast of the corruptive phenomenon in our country. In fact, preventive measures can already be put in place today when there is the customary nature of illegal conduct, the social danger of the person or when it is believed that he habitually lives the proceeds of criminal activities. With your introduction of the associative bond the risk (interpretative type) is that these prevention measures can no longer be applied except in cases that are completely minority and difficult to prove, of corruption in association. The risk is therefore that of a resounding autogol, of a step back in the contrast to the corruptive phenomena in our country. In other words, limiting the application of the rule to the so-called corrupt in association, there is a risk of excluding the action of prevention against those who do not delinquency in associative form, although they are habitual delinquents of high social danger who usually live from the proceeds of illegal activity. Even the confiscation of property could thus be prevented from those corrupted who, outside the associative circuits, systematically used corruption to enrich themselves. As if that were not enough, the rule that introduces preventive measures in crimes against the public administration, unlike what had been approved in the Commission, does not apply in cases of corruption where the associative aggression is not there or simply is not demonstrable or is not easy to demonstrate. At this point I wonder what the role of Mr Berlusconi, Mr Ghedini and Mr Gianni Letta was in the drafting of this amendment; I wonder why this amendment was not brought into question in the Commission, but on the contrary it was written in some secret room (it is not well known by whom) and presented to the House at the last minute. Mr President, there has been a substantial change in the measure at the last minute, after three years of discussion in the parliamentary classrooms. In short, we are on the same page: in the Commission we agree an effective text to counter corruption in our country, phenomena that we know very well are fertile ground for the rooting of the mafia; we bring the measure to the House strong of a large majority, except then change the cards on the table and present an amendment that unquestionably represents a compromise to the bottom, a bitter bite that you would like us to swallow. We cannot and do not want to accept downward compromises in the fight against corruption and the Mafia. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The measure under discussion also contains many other problems. First, it continues to give Invitalia SpA a strategic role in the management and administration of confiscated companies. We all know that Invitalia is a public coach, whose employees were not hired with the guarantees of a public competition, but on the contrary they were chosen by politics according to clientele logic. Well, the employees of Invitalia will be able to manage the most economically important confiscated companies. I understand very well the ratio at the basis of this rule: allowing the management of these companies to people close to your party, whether they are PD or Forza Italia does not change anything. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Do you think this logic is in the interests of the citizens? I don't think so. Perhaps it responds to your interest, that of the party, but certainly not to that of the citizens. Secondly, you have rejected (even if it seems by mistake, but the result does not change) the amendments aimed at increasing the protection of witnesses of justice, creating the premises for an objective unequal treatment. The changes introduced to the House by the 5 Star Movement that provided the possibility for policemen to restructure and take advantage of the houses confiscated from the Mafia and that were in a state of abandonment. Furthermore, the consequences on the liability of judicial administrators for the appointment of directors in situations of incompatibility or conflict of interest have not been considered. Finally, starting with the conclusion, with reference to the National Agency for the Administration and the destination of assets seized and confiscated from organised crime, the procedures for the allocation of assets have not been very complicated, with the risk of slowing down the procedures. Little attention has been paid to transparency. What could be the consequences? To see these assets always attributed to the usual subjects, to the usual cooperatives and to the usual organizations. In conclusion, we have already seen it with 416-b, a reform of the latter animated by very good intentions but wrong in its formulation, which has had the consequence of freeing from prison those sentenced for political-mafia exchange vote at first and second instance. We have already seen it with the reform of the anti-corruption rules, a reform failed, ineffective, only facade, a resounding appointment lost by this Parliament with the history of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Well, even today with this measure, while recognizing and sharing many objectives, we do not want to be complicit in yet another downward compromise in the fight against mafia and corruption. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For this reason, I declare that the vote of the 5 Star Movement will abstain. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u25	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, some people today are wondering why we are committed to this measure and someone is talking about obstructionism, but they probably forget that the Berlusconi Government has introduced the anti-mafia code in our country in line with the first rules on anti-mafia in La Torre, as we have done with terrorism. Continuity concerns the commitment to stabilise 41- bis, to ensure the seizure of the assets (the so-called "stuff") of the heirs of the mafia, to have removed the legal patronage of the Mafia defendants in order to guarantee it to women victims of violence. Those are the rules. Was there then a need for a code correction? Of course I do. Why was there such a need for correction? Because the European Court of Human Rights has intervened several times, Mr President, in order to protect certain guarantees which have been introduced by the case law and which need to be transposed into law. Second aspect. Was there proper management of the assets seized from the Mafia? No, because there was a responsibility (or there was no) of so-called anti-mafia professionals. Did we ask ourselves that? What investigations has the Commission carried out to determine whether, hypothetically, there had been a focus on Mafia crimes or were there regulatory changes to be made? Why do I say that? Because only one third of the seizures arrive at confiscation, while the other two thirds do not arrive at confiscation because time passes, but because they are rejected and are eliminated by subsequent trials, which concern the seizures that have been arranged. It was also necessary to assess the means to ensure compliance with the law, on the one hand, and the possibility of using goods, on the other. Yet you voted against an amendment to lease the confiscated property to police forces, military forces, armed forces, firefighters. There was no expense, but you blew it by saying there was a budget problem. No budgetary problem: even if the restructuring was the responsibility of the poor tenant, who did not have to exceed the total amount of the first four years of the rent. We have then had the opportunity to discuss, Mr President, a series of torments and forcings of the legislative procedure, which perhaps pose the same legitimacy as this law. This leads to further consequences. I didn't say it: Canton said it and Violante said it. What's the matter? The problem is that having extended anti-mafia measures also to crimes against public administration may involve the possibility of different interventions by the European Court of Human Rights from the point of view of legitimacy; do not forget that they have been saved by hair. President Grasso will remember that when we did the anti-mafia code we did not talk about suspects as regards terrorism and the fascist party; it meant something else: the suspect was about the mafia, because the latter and corruption are two different things. Do you want to keep arguing? I want to argue again, after 40 years of judiciary and after teaching at the university. Even today I have respect and my veins are shaking when I see lawyers of clear fame who say a certain thing and I ask myself the question if it is correct what I declare. On the other hand, Mr President, there are "jurists" in this House who do not care what they say (not experts in our area or who use some statements for political exploitation). I invite you to think. Yesterday, the first President of the Court of Cassation also intervened to share what Cantone said, who asked to stop, because there is the risk of putting in perhaps the same fight against the Mafia. This is what you did not understand: you had to stop to try to evaluate his considerations. Mr President, you are trying - and I hope you will not succeed - to amend a rule that has already been adopted. And then, if by chance you were to do this other absurd thing too, it would mean that you would have a further responsibility, because you could have stopped to reflect, as they had invited you to do Violante and others; as Cassese, Flick and many professors in your area had asked you to reason. But you don't. If you wanted to amend an article already approved, you should have felt the sensitivity to do so immediately, because then Orlando would have been right: we need this law, we have to approve the provision and we agree; but then why go to the House to correct it? We could have done so here, Minister Finocchiaro. It is possible to correct articles which have already been voted on twice, one cannot ignore those statements. If, on the other hand, some "jourists" still allow themselves to take into consideration only what is useful, I wonder: are you really convinced that these norms, as they have been written, will serve in the fight against the Mafia? Why are two thirds of the seizures prolonged and where is the management of the confiscated property? Is there someone who has been wrong and who, for personal interests, manages in a certain way the assets seized from the Mafia? We wanted to give a certificate of return to legality, on the one hand, with the attribution to the police; but, on the other, it also meant reaffirming a principle and saying thank you to those who fight for legality every day. The experience of managing the real that comes from years of activity, tells me then only one thing: you cannot introduce further enlargements of systems that contradict the principles of legal civilization of our country. And when someone, in order to take into account those who are party orders on the vote, does not take account of their conscience, this means not understanding what is being talked about when it comes to fighting the mob. President Grasso knows how close I was to the magistrates of Palermo and that means that even today I believe that the fight against the Mafia must be fought with all the necessary instruments. That is why, however, we must never introduce rules that can reduce the effectiveness of legislation against the Mafia. I did not talk about the torments and forcings of the legislative procedure, which alone would have justified a vote against. We will vote against this measure, because it is a law which, instead of improving those instruments which we have given the first complete implementation, will make us face a new dimension which, probably, in the European Parliament will be able to place in perhaps those rules which only we among all European countries have. In fact, there is no other European country that has the same rules and, if we have them, it is because we have a unique phenomenon that does not exist in other countries: the mafia, which must be fought like all other criminal organizations every day. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u28	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I remain convinced that we will shortly be adopting an important measure, which will improve the prevention and combating of mafias and the management of confiscated property. This is the result of long work, which cannot be summarized in Article 1. A long work, begun on the territories, with the presentation of the law of popular initiative amending the anti-mafia code, promoted by thousands of associations that today ask us to vote the code quickly and whose voice I believe has the same dignity as others in this House. Work continued with the presentation and approval by the Chambers of the analysis document and proposal produced by the Anti-Mafia Commission. Finally, we arrived at the presentation and approval of this bill to the House, with the vote of the majority, the League and other groups. A measure that we have further improved today and that will be able to return to Montecitorio for the definitive yes. Thirty-five years have passed since the approval of the law Rognoni-La Torre, which allowed the preventive seizure of the assets of the mobsters, to hit them where they are more sensitive, giving back to the community what was taken from them. That law, that idea, that someone here called madness worthy of the regimes of the past, was the qualitative leap that changed the history of the fight against the mafia and allowed to give very hard blows to organized crime. After thirty-five years there was a need to do a cutting, as has been said, in particular to reform the National Agency for the administration and the destination of assets seized and confiscated from organized crime to avoid obvious distortions, to ensure databases, to allow the presence of stable, qualified and sufficient staff to carry out the tasks assigned to it, to change the procedures of intervention on the seized companies to manage those able to stand on the market, safeguarding the employment of decent people and to liquidate, instead, those not able to have a future with the delegation to the Government of the legislation to protect the employees. The anti-mafia code intervenes on judicial seizures to avoid abuse and distortion, improve the governance capacity of businesses. There's a lot more to this bill. The rapporteurs and many colleagues in general have spoken about this. What I want to emphasize is that the measure under examination puts the country in a position to administer at the best and transparently a heritage that, thanks to the great work of magistrates and Forces of the order, becomes more and more consistent; a wealth for Italy that must be valued and that we can no longer afford to leave unused so that it is worthless. The law Pio La Torre is born from an intuition: hitting assets with preventive seizures and confisches to counter and combat Mafia crimes. Today, contrary to what has been said here several times, contrary to what someone has theorized in this House, the European Parliament itself and many European countries look at those same preventive capital measures as an indispensable instrument for the fight against crime and propose to introduce them also in their countries, even with a European directive. I respect all ideas, but the idea of using the same personal and property-prevention measures for serious crimes against public administration - and much has been talked about in these hours - is not an invention of justice. It means with the same logic to prevent hateful crimes, such as corruption, which affect the community, being able to activate preventive measures, those same prevention measures that are now used not only for the fight against the mafia but - for example - to strike crimes such as violence in the stadiums, the use of drugs and the non-respect of the DASPO. We are talking about measures that are already being applied to these crimes, and we do not understand why they should not also be applied to corruption. Of course, it is not necessary to allow the abuse of the rules under consideration, but it is correct to think that it is right, through the preventive seizure of assets and assets which are deemed to be of illegal origin and stolen from the public, to ensure that they are returned to the community to which they have been taken, without being able to conceal them. Among other things, crimes against public administration, starting from corruption, are often a sign of widespread illegality, in which the mafias insinuate. I would also add that the extension of measures to prevent terrorism - contained in this draft law - is crucial to counter funding for terror. With regard to the application of preventive measures also for crimes against public administration, I have heard strong words in this House: risk of totalitarianism, regime, attack on citizens' rights and freedoms. It's not like that, and you know it. You know who used those words. Otherwise you have to explain to this House why you have arrived here without even having tabled one amendment on this subject. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Lo Moro]] After a year and a half of discussion in the Commission, you have not tabled a single amendment to the House on Article 1. [[Comments by Senator Giovanardi.]] Did you really just notice these things now? Have you really noticed at the last moment that there are very serious and libertic laws? After the deadline for tabling amendments? Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) That's a lie! You rejected all the amendments. MIRABELLI (PD). It is obvious: they are not liberticide rules. You all know that, otherwise this alarm would have been lifted right away. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Do whatever you want! MIRABELLI (PD). You told the House and the Members that a clue or suspicion would be enough to proceed with the preventive seizure of all assets: that is not the case. CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). That's right. MIRABELLI (PD). First of all, it must be shown that the standard of living of those people, the wealth of those people, is much higher than that which could be guaranteed by their income. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Go back to being a party official! MIRABELLI (PD). There is an investigation; it was introduced for the first time - as President D'Ascola recalled - the question of the right of proof. There is the presence of the lawyer, and you can't kidnap more assets than you think have been stolen from the community. Let's tell the truth. In addition, this provision comes out of the Senate improved and only thanks to the majority and the rapporteurs who, with their amendment, consistent with the comments of the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor, that some quote would have deserved to have in the debate [[Applause from the PD Group]] , have removed the flaw of use and clarified that, in addition to usuality, there is a need for related associative crimes to apply preventive measures. So, there is no liberticidal law. It is a law that leaves the Senate, in this respect, more balanced and improved than the House. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). What are you talking about? MIRABELLI (PD). I would also like to mention the issue of interdicts and anti-mafia certificates, on which I listened to a number of critical speeches during the debate. The one on interdicts is another of the norms that have proved to be among the most effective in the fight against the mafia. I believe that, before the protection of companies, which I believe is right and necessary, it must be noted here that the investigations, from the one in Emilia to all those on the mafias in the North, tell us about the attempt of the mafias to enter and settle in the legal economy and tell us about a company closed every three days because infiltrated by the mafias. If we didn't leave here, we'd look like people living on the moon. Instead, we value the fact that precisely thanks to the interdittives, to the access to the yards, to the work of the prefectures, we are successfully contrasting the attempts of the 'ndrangheta and members to penetrate into the great works: from Expo (92 interdittive) to the Jubilee. And in the face of this, it is also the interest of healthy companies, who do not want competition not free because conditioned by mafias, do not weaken interventions to counter infiltration. I have already said that this measure is important, it changes the anti-mafia code by improving it and updating it. Other than weakening the fight against the mob! It is another important act against the mafias that confirms the commitment of this majority and this Parliament to the fight against organised crime, a commitment that we have demonstrated in this parliamentary term. I want to make a list of the measures approved in this House that have given more strength and more tools to the state to fight the mafias: the amendment of Article 416-b, with the introduction of the exchange vote (votes in exchange for favors), which after three years - as the National Anti-Mafia Directorate confirms - has shown to produce positive results; the re-introduction of the false in the budget, whose abolition had clearly made it more difficult to combat corruption and mafia capital; the introduction of the crime of self-cycling, the anti-corruption law and the code of procurement. Here, dear Senator Di Maggio, to you who quoted us yesterday a person who is charged in all the trials for massacre, I would like to say that it is not true what that person says, namely that the fight against the mob in this country has weakened. We have done a lot; we have really done the fight against the Mafia; our State has the forces, the intelligences, the skills to defeat the Mafia. The judiciary and the forces of the order, to which our thanks go, are always engaged and the results of the last weeks confirm it: 60 arrests of mafias the other day, 116 arrests of Tuesday on the Ionian coast, the arrests of the leaders 'ndrangheta Barbaro in Platì and Giorgi in San Luca. There's been a lot of talk about the boss's hand kissing. But here we must proudly emphasize the arrest of two bosses right in the sanctuaries of the 'ndrangheta that seemed inaccessible to the State. And the other day another major operation, with 116 arrests, was a strong signal in those territories. You don't wanna fight the mob. [[Applause from the PD Group]] That is also why, in order to confirm with pride our commitment against the mafias, we will vote in favour of this measure and I remind myself that we have made the commitment to be finally approved as soon as possible. This law serves, gives more effective tools to fight mafias, enhances the many civil and social forces that make an important contribution to legality. And above all it shows that the institutions - Parliament in the lead - do not give up: they look at how the mafias change, adapt the means of contrast and will continue in the coming years - we are sure - to give more and more blows to criminal organizations. [[Applause from the PD and Art. 1-MDP, and Senator Repetti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u30	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u31	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I agree with many of my fellow Members and, on behalf of the 'Energies for Italy' project, I am going to vote against this measure because it further spoils an already ill system of justice. The special possibility of having significant precautionary measures on the assets of single persons suspected of crimes against public administrations is certainly not mitigated by the inclusion of their associative character. There have been and are too many reckless investigations, which now also concern the unmissable parliamentary activity, so as not to fear the abuse of measures that would cause certain and immediate damage in the face of a long-delayed outcome, however uncertain, very often favourable to the suspect. The means of combating organised crime and terrorism must therefore remain special, while they must be placed, in fact, in a more effective respect of guarantees, those relating to ordinary crimes, although socially reprehensible. Trouble not to keep the two floors separate. This law will have to change and, I'm sure, it will change. [[Applause from Senators Fucksia and Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u33	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u34	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I appreciate Senator Caliendo's statements and speeches. However, although I find the reasons for a vote against to be justified, I personally will not participate in the vote, as I have seen other colleagues will do. I read the statements made by Senator Casini yesterday, who motivated his non-participation in the vote. I do not want to endorse the wrong way to legislate, and I say this to a number of colleagues. I read this morning that Angelino Alfano, Minister for Foreign Affairs, said that his Group will call for robust changes to the text in the House. Will you vote in favour of a text that the leader of your party and your group calls a change? I want to keep my non-voting record, because I share what people like Sabino Cassese have said: easy seizures, the new anti-mafia code kills rights and trials; Cantone, the President of the National Anti-corruption Authority: "Antimafia, the reform is harmful" Luciano Violante (I must not tell this House what his curriculum and competence are): Mafia and other bribes: law to be remarried; Flick, former President of the Constitutional Court: The anti-mafia code does not work in this way. And then the article on "Il Mattino" by Giuseppe Tesauro, former president of the Antitrust, of the Constitutional Court and of whatever he had to do with the law in Italy: The remedy is worse than evil, it is the title of its article. I quote the titles because the time is short. Boccia, president of Confindustria (the party of Renzi used it as a testimonial for the campaign for the referendum, which brought no luck neither to Boccia, nor to Renzi, indeed the name "Boccia" perhaps led to rejection of the reform) now says no to the justice of the suspect and confiscate: The justice of the suspect does serious damage to the economy. And that's what the president of Confindustria says. I mentioned earlier in the Chamber what Canton told Liana Milella in an article on the Republic of Liana this morning and I now complete the quote. Cantone, president of the National Anti-Corruption Authority, said in that article that he had put in writing his critical motivations in a draft for the Minister of Justice Orlando drafted together with a commission of lawyers, citing: Vittorio Manes, Gherardo Colombo and Giuliana Merola. On April 20th (now in July) I sent my report to Orlando and Orlando, Minister of Justice, says, in the same article, that he did not read the document and that he did not know of its existence: "No, I have not yet seen it" - this report - "that work is on the way and mine have not brought me anything yet." We adopt a law against which the Minister of Justice says he has not read the document drawn up by the committee of experts who, with Canton, has made critical comments to strengthen the fight against the Mafia. Therefore, I do not participate in the vote on an anti-mafia code that helps the crime, denies the teachers of the law, must be corrected and will return here. Give a present to the corrupt and the mob. I'm not in for this. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u37	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask, if possible, for a minimum of attention. A few months ago we fired a bill on the planning of the demolitions of abusive artifacts, in a copy in accordance with the text received from the House, with only one exception: in that provision it was written that a certain fund had to apply for the three-year period 2016-2019. Finding us in 2017, evidently the norm deserved a correction. It was said at the time that formal coordination could not be carried out and that it was absolutely necessary to amend that article by means of an amendment. This was done and the text, despite being in line with that of the House, returned to the other branch of Parliament for its subsequent launch. Let's keep in mind this precedent: three years 2016... [[Senator Marcucci's comments.]] Excuse me, Senator Marcucci? Mr Caleo (PD). He was talking to me. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Ah, he was talking to her, good. As I said, in this previous three-year period 2016-2019 could not be modified in three-year period 2017-2020 through formal coordination. Now we are being proposed a formal coordination that essentially triples the sum of 20 million for the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, according to the forecasts of the Budget Commission, which could well be quite different from those that each senator can imagine or those that perhaps, with a more in-depth study, could be more suitable for the implementation of the delegation. Is this a formal coordination or a substantial change? That's all the problem is. The formal coordination, Mr President, affects Article 32, which in turn, apart from the question already posed by Senator Calderoli (which relates to an article voted twice), had been the subject of formal coordination. And with reference to that formal coordination, Mr President, I read that those conditions laid down by the Budget Commission - I am speaking at the time of the Commission - brought about substantial changes which should have been introduced more appropriately through the submission of genuine amendments. This is not my assessment, Mr President, but it is yours: that is exactly what you had to say at the afternoon sitting on 21 June 2017, adding, for a principle of the preservation of acts, that, since the procedure was not provided for in the Commission, and essentially there was no great difference between the Commission's coordination and the individual amendments, it would have been quite exceptional. But he added, Mr President, that the exceptional nature of that procedure could not and should not in any way constitute a practice: In the light of these considerations, in accordance with the principles of the conservation of acts and of the procedural economy, it is understood that what has happened cannot in any case constitute a precedent, the Presidency considers that it is possible to continue the examination of the measure. That is to say, Mr President, that you stated clearly in your speech that the conditions of the Budget Commission could not be the result of formal coordination, but of an amending phase. In the Commission the procedure was not aggravated, but in this House it certainly was. It is true that you always, Mr President, had to say that, despite the exceptional nature of the procedure followed, the procedure in the referee is undoubtedly more flexible and less formal than the rules of the debate in this House. Well, Mr President, I do not believe, in the light of your statement, of what you said on 21 June 2017, that the proposal for formal coordination, put forward by the Budget Commission, can be considered a genuine formal coordination, by making changes to a text in the tripartition of the sum, but also to the text of Article 32, which was voted on independently, when that article was voted on, and that it was voted on again - despite what Senator Ferrara tried to explain in his speeches - by voting on Article 36, and before the amendment amending Article 36, as mentioned by Senator Calderoli. So, Mr President, considering the previous one, the three-year period 2016-2019, in the light of your statement of 21 June 2017 and the objective impact of that formal coordination on the substance of Article 32, however voted twice, I do not think that formal coordination can be carried out. From here comes a duality of roads. The first was proposed by Senator Azzollini: present an agenda and arrange for the House to correct it. The second supports the return to the Commission. President, this is a very strange situation. Yesterday President Orfini declared that this text would be modified in the House, where they would bear the objections that the National Anti-Corruption Authority and several distinguished lawyers have moved on it. Today Minister Orlando says that this text must not be changed in the House, because a possible and further shuttle would run the risk of failure to approve the measure. We have no political certainty about the future. It will be changed or will not be changed; we will fire a defective text - without considering the technical issues that have been discussed so far - from the procedural point of view. Something we have to do. Moreover, if we go back to the Commission, we could proceed quickly and I hope this time with a full majority agreement. Senator Zanda, the bill at our examination is strategic for the majority, but - from what I read - the People's Alternative Group, which supports the majority, does not show a particular enthusiasm for the text, having left freedom of vote. I then wonder if this majority can remain alive even if, hypothetically, the votes of the People's Alternative should not be there. Mr President, I believe that the proposal cannot be regarded as formal coordination. In any case, if this is the way, I agree with the request made by Senator Calderoli, concerning the immediate convocation of the Council for the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, although you do not need to have your back wide - and I am also saying this to your protection - such a decision, given what has happened and the various precedents, cannot be taken solely by you, with reference to your previous positions on the substantive nature of certain coordinations and the fact that similar and less incisive formal coordinations have not been accepted. I therefore believe that the Committee on the Rules of Procedure should be convened. Then I know very well that there are majorities and minorities in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. But, at least, it will be such a Junta to express itself in a definitive way on such an important problem, which touches on a particularly delicate bill and - let us not hide it, because we cannot do it - that runs the risk of affecting the entire structure of the bill. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u40	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Mr President, I rise to explain the proposal for formal coordination, which I had already announced informally yesterday, in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, on Article 1 of the text before us. Meanwhile, the proposal for formal coordination - I remember it, although we all know - in this case is formulated in accordance with the above-mentioned article of the Regulation, which allows each senator, also in relation to provisions already approved that seem... irreconcilable with the aim of the law... to formulate the consequent proposals for formal coordination. The proposal that we submit first to the Presidency's analysis and then to the vote is the one that gives the text of Article 1 to the text that is before the approval of amendment 1,500, signed by the rapporteurs. In other words, we would like to remove the incision of the crime referred to in Article 416 of the Criminal Code, which is aimed at the committee... in relation to the eligibility criteria for the application of preventive measures for corruption offences. In even simpler words, for those who follow us outside this building, our greatest concern, already represented by my Parent Company's explanation of vote, in relation to Article 1, is that having inserted last week, during the process in the Assembly, the limitation of the dispute or contestability, albeit at an inditiary level, of the associative hypothesis, referred to in Article 416 of the penal code - one has when at least three people agree for the realization of a series of crimes - is a criterion that considerably limits the possibility that kidnappings and confiscates for acts of corruption can find their way into our system. And I say this by inserting myself into the whole debate, which certainly has a technical importance of considerable importance, which is also developing in the press in recent days. I would like it to remain with the acts that our concern is that, while the criterion of social danger today would allow the judiciary to demand and apply preventive measures also to crimes against public administration, this legislative novel could give rise to an interpretation according to which a judge, in the future, could argue that the legislature of 2017, having indicated as an essential criterion the association to delinquere for the facts of corruption, meant that social danger should no longer be linked to the recurrence of crimes, to the standard of living or to the heritage superior to that declared or anything else. The criterion to which reference must be made must be the associative hypothesis, which would thus place itself in an alternative way to what the anti-mafia code already disposes in related articles 1, 4 and 16. You understand that this concern cannot be supported by elements of fact, because we are talking about hypotheses and possible future interpretations. Maybe we are wrong or not, but in doubt we would like to keep Article 1 of the draft law under consideration, just as we originally voted on it and supported it in the Commission, along with the whole bill. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Please give us one last chance. We are launching a lifeboat for you, to avoid possible disasters for the majority who will vote on the bill under consideration, removing the associative hypothesis as a criterion that must necessarily exist in order to be able to apply a seizure or confiscation as a preventive measure, and therefore on mere circumstantial elements, also for the facts of corruption. If it is true that the intention of the majority was to implicitly include the corruptive phenomenon in the bill and that its aim is to combat this phenomenon as well, then this is our proposal for formal coordination, well knowing that the Rules of Procedure of the Senate is, in reality, an elastic. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have seen how many times - the last perhaps dates back to yesterday - the Rules of the Senate is an elastic that can be extended and contracted at will, perhaps drawing on the mysterious role of the practices of the Senate, knowledge of few enlightened. The criterion is very flexible and we are fully aware that the text of the proposal for formal coordination in question can take on the apparent or concrete form of an amendment and therefore submit to the examination of eligibility. For God's sake, that would be questionable. By returning to the criteria of flexibility and opportunity that the Senate Presidency has repeatedly drawn from, giving us many elements to assess how flexible the Rules of Procedure are, we support the admissibility of the proposal. We therefore call on the House to consider what we are representing as a sincere contribution to improving the concrete effectiveness of anti-corruption measures, in the knowledge that this could even be decisive for the final vote of the 5 Star Movement Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u43	BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I will be very brief, because I think that many of my fellow Members want to speak, also in the light of Mr Buccarella's statements, which we have just heard. Comrade Buccarella, I'd like to ask you a question to clarify your strange position. If it is true what you are putting to the attention of this House today, why was it not then accepted the proposal made by the centre-right banks to return to the Commission for a moment of deepening, beyond any political or parliamentary exploitation? As for Mr Mirabelli, I am sorry to have to deny him, given the passion of his detailed explanation of vote. I would like to remind my colleague and all of us that the centre-right as a whole and, in particular, my colleagues Sacconi, Di Maggio, Mussini, Giovanardi, Caliendo and Palma have submitted proposals for amendments to the text of the rapporteurs (I am referring to Amendment 1,500), which Mr Buccarella, on behalf of the 5 Star Movement, asked for in substance to be rewritten a few minutes ago. Many amendments have been tabled in this House when the rapporteur's text was presented, just as they had been deposited in the Commission, in the context of the debate there. And everyone has been regularly flunked. I don't want to be forced to read them to you, my colleague Mirabelli. MIRABELLI (PD). It is a sub-amendment to an amendment by the rapporteurs! BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). They say exactly what you have tried to deny today, namely that nobody here has taken care to specify and propose improvements to the text. MIRABELLI (PD). But has the debate reopened? BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). This text had great significance and it had to and could be improved. All this helps me to say something, Mr Mirabelli, despite his indifference. This is guilty, Mr Mirabelli, and that is exactly why my speech also wants to be an explanation of vote in dissent, but a true dissent. Mr President, please listen to me. This dissent leads me to say that the delicacy and complexity of this debate, which has been going on for a long time, must find in this House and in this House the good reasons not only to vote for or against, but also to discuss and discuss the final objective, shared by all, of further improving the instruments to combat organised crime. There has been an immense extension of a special law, Mr Buccarella, concerning rubber bands. The laws against terrorism were special, and rightly so are those against the mafia, or rather against the many mafias, insidious, that precisely in the public administration risk to find an advantage by virtue of the wrong mechanisms and procedures that we ourselves contribute to determining when we constantly feed the caravansserraglio of the bureaucracy: more bureaucracy means more opacity and, therefore, an advantage for the mafias that we risk to favor if we do not raise further the bar of control of the vital ganglia of our country, starting from the economy and above all from the public administration. I shall conclude, Mr President, because I would not like to deny it. It is in this House that the solution must be found. I am concerned about the serious statements made by the President of the Anti-Corruption Authority. Dr. Cantone claims to have filed a report of his on April 20 where it is repeatedly written that the translation tout court of anti-mafia legislation to corruption is not acceptable. I find this worrying for a government that must be able to maintain, in its relationship with its majority and with the entire Parliament, the total correctness and exchange of information that we have always seen guaranteed in the most difficult or delicate measures and moments. I am referring, for example, to a measure which can recall what I have just said, namely the decree on the famous Venetian popular banks. And we are still waiting for Mr Padoan - his goodness - to explain this measure and explain to Parliament what is really being done, even beyond that decree. The point, however, is that this or the other branch of Parliament must assume the responsibility of evaluating, weighing, voting and deciding regardless of the assessments of others, because those assessments are important, all useful and valuable but this is the place of popular sovereignty and we must assume the responsibility of voting on measures that are the best possible. Then, if Parliament, for the most diverse reasons, makes a mistake, it is only Parliament itself that can remedy it. Otherwise, the principle that decisions are taken in this House and campaigns organised, depending on their means or authority, can be used today for this reason and tomorrow for something else, until they lose control of a situation in which - in my opinion - there is an obligation to bring the vote back to the responsibility of each of us. The embarrassment I feel this morning is due to the fact that I have to vote under dictation of others, when we, in this House, have to vote because we are aware, aware and responsible. Us, and just us. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u44	Colleagues, we must give order to the debate. I have given the opportunity to make these speeches, but I must inform the House that proposals for coordination have been put forward. In addition to the detailed proposal for the coordination of the rapporteurs, further proposals have been presented: Senators Cappelletti and Buccarella (who have just illustrated it) in Article 1, and Senators Langella, Malan, Barani, Bernini, D'Anna, Caliendo, Mazzoni, Pagnoncelli Marin and Floris, some of whom are identical. The coordinating proposal submitted by the rapporteurs corresponds to the opinion of the Budget Commission. In that opinion, the Commission supplemented the above, confirming the nullity on the text of the measure and conditioning it, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to a specification on an annual basis of the coverage referred to in Article 32 (4). In this way, the proposal for co-ordination of the rapporteurs, like other proposals made by other senators, is considered admissible. On the other hand, the Presidency does not consider the proposal for coordination submitted by Senators Cappelletti and Buccarella to be admissible, since the content is unrelated to the provisions of Rule 103 (1) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u47	FERRARA Mario (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, on the proposal for coordination of the rapporteurs you will not ask them to express their views. This opinion was already expressed yesterday when we voted on Amendment No 36,200. I would like to make it clear to the House that I believe it should be stated by this Presidency. We are about to put to the vote a proposal for coordination which stems from the opinion expressed yesterday by the Budget Commission. The excellent Offices were very careful yesterday, at the moment when they forwarded the opinion (extensor Senator Del Barba), that this was written in a very careful way and that therefore he mentioned the word: "integration" and the words: "must be understood." In this sense, therefore, the Presidency is accepting the proposal for coordination in accordance with the whole meaning of Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure, which refers to corrections of form and final coordination, but introducing a case which, in my memory, had never been introduced before, namely the possibility of integrating the opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution. This opinion is expressed, as the President will certainly know (I believe that he has studied this procedural detail very carefully) in accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure. At this point there is no practice or precedent that can hold when a provision is specifically articulated in the Rules of Procedure, which states that the provisions contained in a draft law which are contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution are not procedural. This means that when a text arrives in the House and receives an opinion contrary to the Budget Commission, pursuant to Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, the President does not submit it to the Assembly or invites the rapporteurs to add the condition, if it is contained in the opinion, or to expunge the text, if there is an unconditioned opposition. What happens at this point? We put to the vote Article 27 and Article 32 with an opinion which, in fact, since integration was introduced, was contrary to it. In fact, if it was necessary to supplement and correct the opinion of the 5th Commission, this means that Article 32, at the time we voted on it, was impervious. So now how do we coordinate something that should be expounded, because it was voted without it being resolved and that a precise regulatory requirement, i.e. that of exponence without the opinion, was observed? We're not coordinating today, but we're bringing back something that shouldn't exist. In fact, in the absence of the opinion of the 5th Commission or, better, since the opinion of the 5th Commission is contrary, Article 32 is tamquam non esset. Now, we can do anything and everything that has been done in this House. Senator Azzollini probably won't remember him in his speech, and at this point, if you'll excuse me, I remember him. In the budget laws (the Offices know perfectly well when I spoke about it yesterday, I would like to remind myself that I too have proposed coordination rules, as rapporteur, which provided for a bit of everything, covering changes and anything else) it has never happened that a coordination rule, which was decisive of considerable problems, was made as an elastic derogation - I refer to the elasticity mentioned by my colleague from the 5 Star Movement - from the Rules of Procedure. The only possibility the House has in this case is unanimity. When this unanimity was needed, the then President of the Budget Committee, Senator Azzollini, went to my colleague Senator Morando, an agreement was obtained, an agreement was submitted to all parties, unanimity was achieved and then a vote was taken. When the President of the Budget Committee was Senator Morando, the latter went to the Opposition Holding Company in the Budget Commission, submitted the proposal for coordination to him, agreed to expunge, correcting or saying this is not possible, we cannot do it, we do it, we do it, and we put it to the vote. We are now about to vote on a proposal for coordination on which we have been talking for two days. The President has absolute power in this House, which comes under Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure. But, with respect to the absolute power of the President, deriving from Article 100, there is also an over-ordered power, that of the main law, that of the Constitution, and therefore that of compliance with the Rules of Procedure as it is directly descended from the Constitution. Now, Mr President, we can do everything, but before we do so and in a totally subordinate way, being in agreement with what Senator Palma said just now (that is, that this was at least clarified and introduced to the Rules of Procedure Board), I would have liked - I am sorry, we are going to get off the hook, or else we are going to argue - I would ask the Presidency to pronounce that famous formula: "without this being an absolute precedent." Otherwise, at this point, we introduce the question of the integration of opinions. You understand very well what it means: every time an opinion from the Budget Committee comes, we vote and in the end we realize that there is a mistake, that it is not at this point in the coating over a three-year period; it is a non-compliance with the accounting law, and it is not only a theoretical non-compliance, but practical: without this clarification, in doing the budget law of next year, how much was to be entered with respect to the 20 million which was the maximum limit? Let's say it's a non-compliance that has a foundation not only theoretical, but practical. But if this is not a figure of 20 million, but a figure of 2 billion, how would it be determined? The Presidency should establish that, but on the basis of what? Based on common sense? That is why we say that this derogation is very strong; it is too strong, in my opinion, and of the previous Members, for it to be voted on. And I come back to the idea of the agenda. But at the time when we were to vote, that this absolutely does not constitute a precedent, because it is a huge force - this yes - that has no precedent in the history of this House of Parliament. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, MPL, RP).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u48	Thank you for your suggestion. However, we must note that the point was raised at the last sitting when all the articles had already been voted on with the non-obstacle opinion of the Budget Committee. We must take note of this. There would have been all the time on the part of any member of the Budget Commission to notice and to bring this up. We are at a time when we have to coordinate the text, that is, we have to give the text a chance to leave the Chamber so that there are no contradictions: this includes Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure. We are working on this point, while bearing in mind all the aspects that you have rightly highlighted. It means that we will say once again, according to a formula already used, that this does not constitute a precedent, but we must also know that the issue has emerged at the last moment, before the last vote on the last article. Where there was a possibility, an amendment was made, as was the case with Article 36. This is to reconstruct historically what happened. However, we take note of your remarks, Senator Mario Ferrara.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u51	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, the coordinating proposal tabled by Senator Buccarella of the 5 Star Movement basically opened the door, obviously on the basis of the declaration of eligibility of the amending proposal of the rapporteurs on the allocation of the annual allocation, on the admissibility of any proposals which would substantially amend the text. Obviously, the proposal for co-ordination of the rapporteurs takes place on the budget of each of the years 2018, 2019 and 2020. I still do not want to talk about the substantial profile of this proposal and not yet formal, but I am obliged to use the comparison that Senator Palma pointed out in order to have a meter of evaluation and measurement of the intellectual honesty of each of us. The measure on the graduation of the overthrows was very dear to me because it specifically concerned people of my territory, and I turned to Senator Azzollini, a state budget expert, asking him if that correction, that is to eliminate 2016 and insert into the three-year fund 2019, could be resolved with an amendment of coordination. Senator Azzollini - and here is the measurement of the intellectual honesty of each of us - while knowing the passion that had accompanied me with that bill, said that it was not possible because, of course, we went to intervene on the annual budget and could not be done. An amendment had to be made to refer the text back to the House. I then turned to Senator Tonini, President of the Budget Commission, who told me that this could not be done, because that amendment had an impact on the annual budget of 2016, 2017, 2018. Now, this morning, as Senator Palma said, there is a reversal of opinions. Senator Azzollini continues, correctly, with his thesis regarding the rapporteur's amendment. Senator Tonini has changed his opinion and says that this amendment can be a coordination amendment because, while affecting the annual budget, it does not, however, shift the fund that, even in that case, did not differentiate in the allocation of the fund. We have tabled five amendments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. They are proposals for coordination, technically. FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Coordination proposals or even coordination amendments in the joint jargon. In essence, they follow the same path, Mr President. They are voted on, as the amendments are voted on. That is why, probably, there is confusion between the two terms. We introduced five of them, as I said. And it is clear that we have presented five amending proposals simply for an aesthetic purpose, to exalt the contradiction in which the majority has taken place today. In the sense that if we remove seven amendments and put five or three, it does not change history. What must be recorded in clear terms is the difference in cultural behavior and honesty on the part of each of us. In conclusion, Mr President, I just want to say that, when there is a conflicting direction between the Chambers, we go to the United Sections. Now, it seems to me that the interpretative contrast on this point is clear because, if it was decided for that amendment a few days ago that an amending proposal was not enough, but an amendment was needed, today - for goodness sake, legitimately - it changes its opinion. What, though, is done when there are two conflicting views? We are going to ask the Supreme Body, in this case the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, the Presidency should, quite correctly, put this matter back to the Rules of Procedure, because it says whether these amendments fall within the scope of the Rules of Procedure as amending proposals or not. For this reason, I insist on this request and ask you to ensure that the most legitimate body to decide on the matter is compulsed and called upon to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u52	Senator Falanga, take away a curiosity. Since you have done the historical reconstruction of the amendment, why did you not use Senator Azzollini's advice to table an amendment with the annual breakdown instead of leaving it with 20 million on a three-year basis? I'll have the doubt, maybe. I wondered why he did not use the experience of Senator Azzollini, who consulted on this. My - I repeat - was only a doubt that perhaps I will remain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u53	If you will allow me, Mr President, I will clarify this question. In that case, it was 2016 that had already passed, but there was still intervention on the annual budget.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u54	I understand, but in making the amendment it was possible to remedy the problem by sharing it year by year.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u55	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). I disagree with her. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. However, it is a doubt that will certainly remain to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u58	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to say that the proposal for coordination which I tabled in relation to Article 32 was intended to show that the proposal tabled by the rapporteurs was not in fact a proposal for coordination in its own sense. However, since you have established eligibility for the vote and because this eligibility is unappellable, I would like to mention it because allocating the expenditure limit of 20 million to 7, 7 and 6 is as questionable as the others: I have proposed 8, 8 and 4, others have proposed 5, 5 and 10 and so on. The fact that it is questionable shows that it is not coordination, that it should be a proposal on which everyone converges fundamentally at the level of logic; in this case it is a different decision. It cannot be determined by coordination that a million more or a million less is spent in 2017 or 2018. If that is the case, a number of rules laid down by the budget law and so on go up. Having said that, I would like to focus on the fact that in this proposal we have an arbitrary distribution and we propose others - but I see that other colleagues in the Group also propose alternative solutions - with the doubt that this is a genuine coordination. In fact, we felt that this was not a coordination for which we were prepared to accept your decision in the sense that neither ours nor the rapporteurs were eligible. This applies to Article 32. With regard to the coordinating proposal put forward by the rapporteurs in Article 34 - I should like to explain my proposal, but in order to gain time with this point - unfortunately, it has not been presented by the rapporteurs. I would like to express my regret that the rapporteurs, who are also very familiar with the subject - because they have worked hard on it in the Commission and now in this House - are keeping this knowledge to themselves. However, now a rapporteur is talking to others, showing that he does not take his role very seriously; the other is looking at President Latorre who is talking to a colleague, so, since the rapporteurs do not even listen to the speeches, it is normal. [[Comments of Senator Lumia]] Well, since they are listening to me now, I would like to remind you that it would be good for the rapporteurs to make clear to the House what they are proposing, in particular the proposals for coordination. Well, the classic proposals for coordination arise when, for example, an article from the final articles of a measure refers to Articles 4, 5 and 6 and, in the course of the debate, Article 5 is deleted. In that case, it is obvious that the words "4" and "5" and "6" will have to be replaced by the words "4" and "6" because otherwise we would refer to a non-existent article. These are the classic proposals for coordination. On the other hand, this case (let us forget Rule 32) in Article 34, perhaps there are extraordinary reasons that I cannot understand, but, just as usually when the rapporteurs express an opposite or a favourable opinion, they do not explain why, not explaining the reasons, I cannot understand it, unless it is so clear. The proposal for coordination with regard to Article 34 essentially proposes that the reference to Article 27, paragraphs 2-a and 2-b of the Anti-Mafia Code be deleted from Article 34. Now, I have tried in the rest of the text to see if these paragraphs have been deleted - it may have happened - but I have not found that deletion, I would point out that this is not a formal coordination here. Paragraph 2 of Article 34, in fact, states: "the amendments to Articles 7, paragraphs 10-a and 10-c, and 27, paragraphs 2-a and 2-b, of Legislative Decree no. 159 of 6 September 2011, apply in the proceedings in which, on the date of entry into force of this law, it has already been proposed to apply the preventive measure". It is not a question of coordination: it means that in this text, which has been approved by the Assembly in accordance with all the criteria of regularity, it has been established that paragraphs 2-a and 2-b apply to certain measures. By suppressing them, it is clear that they no longer apply. This does not seem to me to be a formal coordination, but something quite different. Although I obviously did not share it either in terms of legitimacy or in terms of content, I understand Senator Buccarella's proposal, which says that if it is all coordination, then we can make a proposal that deletes a text that has been clearly approved by the House because the latter, despite the end, can decide, if one thing you do not like, to change it. I believe that we need to be careful with these procedures because with all the care not to create precedents here in reality they create them. The rules are used to guarantee all the subjects, those who are in the majority and those who are in the minority, because no one in democracy - hopefully - will be there forever (perhaps someone will stand forever in opposition, in the sense that they will even disappear from Parliament) and those who are in the majority are not said to be there forever. We must be very careful, therefore, after having approved a rule, to change it when it comes to coordination. Frankly, I understand in some way the logic of the question of Article 32 (which had to be distributed 20 million in three years), but in this case there are procedures which, without coordination, would have taken place according to a certain procedure, with all the technical changes provided for by this measure that we are examining, while with coordination they no longer apply and different procedures apply. As these proceedings take place in courts where there are people, as I hope there are, here too, careful with the procedures, they will go to see where the procedure that applies to a particular trial comes from and find out that it comes from a proposal for coordination. I may not have understood the passage, but since it is not explained, I think it is legitimate that someone does not understand it. And when I read the text, I do not find anything to explain why, in the course of formal coordination, we need to change substantially and formally a rule that has already been approved and, among other things, has also been approved by the House. It is true, for Christ's sake, that we can change whatever standard has already been approved by the House, but this seems to me far from a change in coordination.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u61	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, since the regulatory issues have, in my opinion, been fully expressed by Senator Palma, I will address the problem that we are facing exclusively and always from the point of view of public accounts and from this point of view, Mr President, the definition of coordination is, in my humble opinion, insurmountable. Given that I will also deal with some specific matters which you have dealt with a moment ago (and I think it is right, as always, to give specific answers to your comments), I would first of all like to say why Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate - I apologise, Mr President - has nothing to do with this. The concept of Article 103 is of an opposing nature. If, for example, Article 12 states that all who have the heavenly eyes are given a relief and another article gives the same relief to those who do not have the heavenly eyes, it would be obvious that this is irreconcilability. In this case, there is no opposing concept, but only an additional concept: there is a rule that lacks one piece, the annual modulation of the burden, and it must be supplemented. I certainly do not have to explain to you the very considerable difference between the opposing and the supplementary concepts. Therefore, we are faced with a rule which, as it is, has no regulatory profile; it has a basic profile: the lack of adherence to a rule, moreover, of direct constitutional derivation, which is that of the principle of annuality of the budget. And this is it. Therefore, Mr President, you know better than I that, as it is, the measure can well be approved, because, as you know, despite the contrary opinion under Article 81 of the Constitution of the Budget Commission, the House is sovereign and, if, in view of the request for a vote by a prescribed number of senators, it approves it, that measure is perfect. It is then up to those who are to enact the law, to the President of the Republic, the burden - specifically attributed to him - to verify whether Article 81 of the Constitution has been observed, otherwise, for that reason, it refers it to Parliament; Parliament can re-approve it and the consequences are that the rule is approved. Therefore, there is no concept of irreconcilability; there is a problem of integration for a rule of direct constitutional derivation; this rule could be exceeded, but, we understand, at the price of a remarkable vulnus, justified on grounds that only the Government can explain; therefore Parliament is today faced with this situation. What does Rule 103 of the Rules of Procedure have to do with it honestly I cannot understand it. But be careful, Mr President, this issue (that is, this is a supplementary rule) has been clearly expressed, in my opinion, in a perfect way, by the President of the Budget Commission, who said that in the view of the Commission - and I agree, of course - it is a condition of Article 81 of the Constitution. This condition always suffers only one fate: the fate of the amendment or sub-amendment which the Commission approves before the amendment, so that the amendment is perfect, with the opinion of the Commission under Article 81. This is an amendment, there is no other nature. What does coordination have to do with the amendment? It is very clear from the debate in this House that this is an amendment. There is a further problem with this amendment, from my point of view. Today we are talking about various modulations. In my view, since coordination on this point is inadmissible, the proposed amendments are also inadmissible. It is clear that the senators presented them because there is coordination and they feel that they are changing it. But, Mr President, imagine that I am a gentleman who believes that 18 million euros of those 20 are made the first year and then one the following year and one the following year, and that the House will approve it: we could be faced with a cover-up. That is why the rewording proposals must be made in the Budget Committee, because only there can a technical report tell us what the burden is (I have already stated on the note that the General Accounting Officer did yesterday and here I do not repeat myself). The burden is not a discretionary fact, which responds to a logic of the type "now I put eight, this year three". Not at all, the burden is something that one writes and is verified per year by the General Accounting of the State, which explains why it goes in one way or another. We could therefore face a burden which is inconsistent with Article 81 of the Constitution for a vote in this House. Mr President, this then has nothing to do with irreconcilability. I repeat that there is a precise formula: the law is adopted, there is an agenda in which it is said that the text is not good because the year has to be modulated, the House corrects it and sends it back to us. I, who am a humble senator of the Republic, do not deal with those very serious issues that other Presidents have dealt with, because I understand that one says he wants to make the change and another does not; but I do not read the newspapers of the day, but those of many days ago, so I am safe from such temptations. On the contrary, I am dealing with a precise matter, namely that this would allow the rule to go as it is. But here I want to answer the subtle question that you, Mr President, have put to Senator Falanga, by introducing my name on the possible council. There are two problems at this point. First of all, it is not true that this rule was introduced when there was no more time. I asked you from the beginning, quite naively, because I did not know the Rules of Procedure, at what point you would have wished me to speak, whether on Rule 36 or on coordination, and I followed your advice to take the floor on Rule 36. At that time, therefore, there was an Article 36 to be voted on and an Article 36 to be included in the coordinating proposal, which I suggested that an amendment should become a subtle amendment. It was you who said - and I thank you for this and I continue to do so - in front of the rapporteurs (who at that time are the only ones holding this power), that it would be better to write an amendment. The rapporteurs explicitly said that they would make it obtorto neck, just because it was you who asked for it. In my speech, always naively, I said that there were still many possibilities: the sub-amendment, the amendment and the agenda. It is clear that I did not have the option of suggesting to the rapporteurs that they should write an amendment - and I would not have allowed myself to do so - with such a wording: "except Articles 27 and 32, thus incorporated." In this way, however, we would have seriously healed the matter: we had two articles, one supplementary to the other, and coordination would have made it clear that, in order not to be pleonastic, we would have done one rule and Article 32 would have come as it should. Anything was possible, but I had the feeling, Mr President, that instead there was some sort of political obstinacy that did not see an issue that, as usual, was taken more as a procedural obstacle than as an attempt to cooperate, and now we are in this situation. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the senators Pepe, Quagliariello and Volpi.]] Senator Calderoli warned everyone that we had voted for everything, and it had to be understood that this was a sort of obstinacy. If I may say so, Mr President, I must say that this was also in clear contrast to your suggestions. In conclusion, if this has been the case, then let us follow the Rules of Procedure to the end. The failures were there, as well as some stubbornness, but now we follow this blessed Regulation; otherwise, Senator Buccarella is right: he wants to see Article 1, I want to see 2, Senator Falanga certainly on 3, 4, 5 and 6, and so on. No, please, Mr President, let us not introduce this principle. Let us make an agenda: the law, as it is, is perfectly in line with the standardization dictates, so we write on an agenda the existence of this aporia, send the text back to us and end there; if it comes back for other reasons, then we will discuss it. Mr President, by entrusting myself to you who, in my opinion, has managed this stage in a very precise manner, I think it is appropriate to continue with the same punctuality: to declare the proposal for coordination inadmissible and consequently all the others; to ask the rapporteurs to make an agenda saying that the order must be modulated; the Treasury writes in the accompanying report that there is this problem and that everything will be resolved in complete adherence to the substance of the issues. Otherwise, the Constitution, which was too rigid before, now, as Senator Buccarella said, is too "elastic" and sometimes I do not like excessive things; it should not be too rigid, but not too elastic. [[Applause from the groups FI-PdL XVII and ALA-SCCLP, and Senator Quagliariello. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u64	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, there are many particularities in the legislation we are examining. There are two councils on coordination that came quietly, one from President Ferrara and the other from President Azzollini. On the one hand, to write that this is no precedent, on the other hand, to draw up an explanatory agenda allowing the other branch of Parliament to remedy the situation. Mr President, allow me, however, since this is not an ivory tower, to speak here on a substantial matter, and this too must not be a precedent. You know there's little sleep in the summer, maybe you fall asleep at 7:00 and you don't have time to read the papers. I did not manage to compulse the press review today before arriving in this House. I was very intrigued by the speeches of my colleagues Gasparri and Bonfrisco, who referred to Liana Milella's article and read it. Mr President, our judgements are indisputable and, therefore, anything can be said here, but we should avoid saying things that are not true. My colleague, Mr Mirabelli, said that no one had tabled any amendments on the aspects which were then criticized and was promptly denied. At other times there would have been a jury of honor, today Parliament is also following the rules of the outside world in this, and that is a good thing. Yesterday we heard from the mouths of the rapporteurs, President D'Ascola and many colleagues of the majority, absolutely men of honour, that in reality doubts that have an institutional value (because they are not doubts of commentators, but they came from the head of the anti-corruption Authority, from the President of the Court of Cassation and from others) would be formulated too late and wondered why they woke up only now. Today we learn that at the Ministry of Justice there was an institutional table on mafia and corruption, which was presided over by the head of the National Anti-corruption Authority, Canton, which included, among others, Vittorio Manes, Gherardo Colombo and Giuliana Merola of the Anti-Mafia Commission, and that on April 20 a report was delivered in which all the doubts that have been expressed in the last few days were already evident. I would ask the President of the Commission, Mr D'Ascola, and my fellow rapporteurs, who are men of honour, whether they were aware of this report and why Parliament has not been brought to the attention of this report in order to be able to intervene soon. Then there is another figure. I do not doubt the intellectual honesty of Minister Orlando here who was my colleague; not only do I not doubt his intellectual honesty, but also his punctuality, because one may disagree, but there is a relationship of esteem with respect to human behavior. Mr Orlando said today that he had never seen the opinion because his people had not informed him that this opinion had been put in writing, I repeat, Mr President, on 20 April. How is that possible? How is it possible that within a Ministry, not the opinion expressed by the Magistrate Canton, which frankly gave too many opinions (and I hope that this debate was also a vaccine compared to the excessive opinions given by Canton, which even expressed itself on the formation of Naples: today, as a fan of Naples, I feel safer), but the opinion expressed by him as President of the National Anti-corruption Authority on an aspect that primarily concerns the measure under consideration, and that has raised so many doubts that the extension of anti-Mafia rules to this area may weaken rather than strengthen the fight against the mafia, have not been brought to the knowledge of the Minister and, therefore, Parliament? Mr President, I have enough parliamentary experience to know that we will not have these answers today, but it is absolutely essential that this stays on the record. I therefore ask my colleagues and also the Minister to find the most appropriate ways of giving answers, so that this is not an even greyer page and the measure under consideration is not destined for the trash, giving rise to the doubt that there is someone who has operated so that it never actually arrives in port. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u67	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would also like to explain my proposal for coordination. I was partly anticipated by President Azzollini, but I would like to remind you that, on the occasion of which Senators Azzollini and Falanga referred, I was rapporteur for the measure. So, Mr President, since you referred to Senator Falanga, asking why we have not tabled coordination amendments, I would like to remind you that we have tried everything and that, as rapporteur, I had the amendment to be tabled by the Bureaus, because the text had to be corrected and it was not possible to do so when it came to coordination. That was his idea, so it is true that at the sitting of 21 June, on the subject of the measure under consideration, he reiterated this and nothing changed. He also correctly stated that the coordination proposals adopted in the Commission, although they were designed to adapt the text to the conditions laid down by the Budget Commission, would have to be substantially amended, which should have been introduced more appropriately through the submission of genuine amendments. Mr President, Senator Azzollini has referred to these fundamental changes. Because of the constitutional constraints, they are substantial changes in nature. You, Mr President, have become the referee of this branch of Parliament, in the sense that, in the face of any request to submit an issue to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, except when the voting system for the Berlusconi case should have been changed, you have never done so by exercising a power which is yours, under the Rules of Procedure. Now, since you become the beacon in the interpretation of the way we operate in this House, I can no longer understand. When I read, from the shorthand report of the afternoon sitting of 21 June, that the Presidency intends to rethink the very exceptional nature of the procedure followed and that the procedure in the referee is undoubtedly more flexible and less formalized than the rules of the debate in this House, I say to myself that we have finally made it clear and that these things will never happen again in this House. But then, today - even though I had already perceived it in yesterday's sitting - I realized that there was the admissibility of an amendment by the rapporteurs, which contradicts everything that had happened before. Since we do not put this back on the Rules of Procedure, we have then tabled corrective amendments to this coordination amendment, which is not the case. Therefore, the amendment has been tabled and the amount of amounts to be spread over the years has been changed. Dear President, I have a great deal of confidence in your competence and value, even in the light of the precedents, but I hope that you will once again put the matter back to the Rules of Procedure Board, so that we can have the opportunity to confront ourselves and ensure a sure legislative process, with the adoption of solutions that do not depend on the day or the type of measure under discussion. Mr Berlusconi had recourse to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but as far as this procedure is concerned it is said that this is something else, because we are in the referee's office, and that it will never happen in this House. This is another time, right here in this House, and it seems to me that we must now have certainties. Mr President, do you not want to invest the Committee on the Rules of Procedure? I ask you then to give us a consistent and unchangeable interpretation, since - not even on purpose - we are in the same situation as we were some time ago. The question of compliance with Article 81 of the Constitution was also raised at the time and amendments were made to the budget committee. Having added that it is a specification does not change, because it is not a specification. That is what you said, Mr President. I was rapporteur in the proceedings referred to by Senator Falanga and I was told that it was not a specification and an amendment had to be tabled. I, with respect, respected your interpretation. How can I now forget what happened on that occasion and what was the interpretation of President Grasso, different from that adopted today? We have the habit of always reasoning about the interpretation of the rules, but at some point they sit down and find a consistent interpretation by the Court of Cassation. Thus, when assessing the teaching of the Court of Cassation, each court may differ only if it gives a different interpretation. You, Mr President, gave an interpretation last June which is consistent with that date previously during the examination of the demolition measure. These two interpretations were consistent, while today's interpretation is dystonic. I, who have to observe the rules of this House, must adapt to which interpretation? With great honesty, Mr President, I hope that you will invite the rapporteurs to table amendments, as you did with me. Can we not do that because they have already been voted on? Of course, they have been voted on twice, but then we could not even present coordination ones. Either we refer the measure back to the Commission, or we return to the case, expressed by President Azzollini, of an agenda, as a more correct solution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Falanga.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u68	Senator Caliendo, my answer is not to what you have said, but I note that the prerequisites of every decision must take note of the various situations. One thing is the Commission which gives the House an opportunity to intervene, another thing is when we have reached the point where, as you have pointed out, all the articles have been voted on and there is no other solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u71	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to take a moment to retrace the story of this blessed amendment, because perhaps it has not been so clear that the initial mistake does not start with the Justice Commission. The Budget Commission shall deliver a non-obstacle opinion on condition that it does. Under the conditions - we are therefore talking about a mandatory thing - it is specified that: The delegation referred to in this Article shall be implemented within the limit of EUR 20 million for the three-year period 2018 - 2020. I am reminded of Article 40 of the Rules of Procedure where, in paragraph 5, it is said that any opposition must be motivated by: "insufficient quantification" and, in paragraph 8, "Verification of the suitability of the financial coverage for the purposes of the expression of the opinion referred to in paragraph 5," must refer to the quantification of the costs incurred by each provision and to the charges incurred over each of the years included in the multiannual budget in force. Clearly, as the condition has been formulated by the Budget Commission, it does not comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and, consequently, with Rule 81. To the point that President Tonini says that the 5th Commission met and examined the problem posed by Senator Azzollini, that the evidence proved to be a well-founded problem, since the rule, voted by mistake by the 5th Commission, in the ordinary drafting of the opinion did not contain the annual quantification of the burden and its cover. Now let me also give you a brief political reading of the matter, as it has appeared to me personally. It seems impossible, in fact, that the Rules of Procedure, in paragraph 8 of Article 40, give a certain indication and someone writes down in the three-year period. Do you know how I read the story at first? Frankly, I thought it was a torpedo of the Renzians who had included in this bill a poisoned meatball intended for Minister Orlando. That is the only justification, because such a specialised Commission cannot fall into such a macroscopic error. In any case, the opinion of the Budget Commission, which met again and obtained the technical report, is very careful and says that the Economic and Budget Planning Commission, in addition to the opinion expressed on the text, confirms the non-obstacle opinion, and therefore would continue to give it a regulatory coverage under Article 81, on one condition. It is clear, therefore, that, having not yet observed and followed up on this observation, which then resulted in a coordination rule, that Article 32 - which I remember voting twice - was voted, in absolute good faith, by electronic procedure but without the request that the limits laid down by Article 81 of the Constitution be exceeded. I say this, Mr President, because instead of chasing coordination rules which, in my opinion, in Article 103 frankly have nothing to do with anything, because there is nothing to coordinate here because it is a specification of what is not written in Article 32, we could only remedy it with an additional amendment. I therefore call once again for the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to be convened in order to hear the opinion of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, but I would also ask you, Mr President, to make a solution, a way out. Since the House voted in good faith, not knowing that there was a problem under Rule 81 with regard to the vote, I do not understand why we cannot say that there was an irregularity in the vote. We are back to voting on Article 32 in the text integrated with the coordination rule and everyone lived happily ever after. [[Applause from Senators Comaroli and Volpi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u72	Senator Calderoli, it should be noted that the rules of the Rules of Procedure you referred to concern the deliberating seat. Anyway, I understand the meaning of your speech. I repeat that the opinion of the Budget Committee is an addition to the opinion itself on the text and is a confirmation of the opinion that is not precluded by the following condition: that it must be understood as a specification of what was already contained in the previous amendment. This is the text that we have received from the Commission. Senator Calderoli, we can't open a debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u73	Mr President, I would just like to make one specific point. I, too, had interpreted it in this sense, i.e. as an extension of the favourable opinion, which therefore highlighted the favourable opinion. However, I invite you to have the patience to read the rest: "the opinion does not preclude it with the following condition, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution: the coverage referred to in Article 32 (4) must be defined as follows: "" Therefore, if a condition was imposed, the initial opinion was not favourable. This is in good faith; in bad faith it is possible, but certainly, if it is not changed, it is to be regarded as contrary; it is not yet, because we have not yet voted on the proposal for coordination and therefore the vote on Article 32 was irregular and should be repeated. [[Senator Caliendo's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u76	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am presenting a proposal for coordination, so I would like to comment on it and comment on the debate that has emerged in this House at this time. I would like to address you, my colleagues in the majority who are continuing with protection and to the rapporteurs, while thanking them for the immense work they have done, a work of monsters, and I am referring above all to the work of formal coordination of substantive content. One of the reasons why I have tabled a proposal for coordination is precisely to demonstrate (surely you do not have it, Mr President, because in view of your expertise you will not miss this figure) how substantial it is in this seemingly formal formula. I am sorry to have to indulge in this bickering of words, but unfortunately the bickering is in the content. When we look at Articles 32 and 34 we realize, precisely from the contents of the text, that they are amendments: the formula is innovative, it is modifying, and I assure you, Mr President, that I have tried with absolute sincerity and intellectual honesty to compare this content and to understand, especially with regard to Article 34, what would have been the final content, textual and therefore of application merit, of this proposal for coordination-amendment. I have addressed the rapporteurs who have shown me a series of amendments to the text formulated in articulo mortis by themselves (since, as we all know, only the rapporteurs can until the last second to table amendments to the text to the attention of the House), but it has also been difficult for the rapporteurs themselves to reconstruct the final formula of Article 34 as modified by the formal fake coordination (college, already using the word: "modulated" I leave the scope of coordination). I have presented a text which I consider to be more satisfactory than that expenditure and proposed by the rapporteurs, but what is now keeping us busy is not a merely obstructive formula, and I would like to address you who are particularly sensitive on this point. We are talking about a text that will have a strong impact on the legislative, legal, judicial, precautionary, preventive structure of our country; a text destined to have disruptive effects, on which have been measured the main lawyers of our country and presidents emeritus of the Constitutional Court, as we have already said. Mr President, this is all about the formal coordination of the text. I see Mr Orlando present in this House. We have learned - this too was part of today's debate - and it has not been denied, that President Cantone has sent Minister Orlando an illustrative report of the text that we are about to approve, with formal fake coordination, but in fact substantial, thus committing regulatory violations of regulatory violations. Minister Orlando says that he has never received such a report, evidently out of postal confusion or perhaps out of disenchantment or negative enchantment of his offices. Tell us, Minister Orlando. I see her talking: talk, talk and tell all of us what happened. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bernini, please do your surgery. You can't talk to a government minister. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Why? What Rule of the Rules of Procedure prevents me from doing so? [[Senator Cardinal's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u77	Illustrate the proposal for coordination; that is why I gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u78	BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). I am, Mr. President. But, in your opinion, is there a form that is not even substance? We are presenting a text, as I have told you, which has undergone absolutely irregular genetic mutations in this House. I, like other colleagues who have already made this request before me, am a member of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, a technical and legal body which has fallen into disrepute in this parliamentary term. Mr President, how many times have we asked you, from the top of your proper and consistent management of this House and all that is connected to this House, including the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, which moves the actions of all of us, to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the only one able to solve the problem that is holding us all today in this House? If we continue to debate, Mr President, it is not because we are ugly, dirty and bad opposition, but because we have a problem, a problem of a regulatory nature: we recognize a non-formal but substantial value to this proposal for coordination. Mr President, Senator Caliendo, whom I listened to earlier, evoked a consistent and unchangeable interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Mr President, you and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure - I do not need to tell you - have two different functions. Its consistent and immutable interpretation, as Senator Caliendo defines it, cannot be a substitute for the work of the Council for the Rules of Procedure; otherwise why would the Council for the Rules of Procedure exist, if its coherent and immutable interpretation could take place? So, Mr. President, and believe me, not to waste time, but to make sense of our role as legislators... 1-MPD. No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Quiet, please, let me finish the surgery. I invite you to conclude, Senator Bernini, as you have already expressed your thoughts extensively. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, you are particularly intuitive and you understood it immediately, at the first two words. But I would like those who are less able to interpret my thinking to understand it fully. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Bernini. BERNINI (FI-PdL XVII). Yes. Very simply, Mr President, please listen to us this time. I'll say it very simply, in my own words. Given that there has been a strong malaise in this House today about an important measure, which is intended to have significant, significant and striking effects on our order, it does not follow the tradition that it itself has established not to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. Let us call it in and discuss together, at the only appropriate forum, this coordinating text, which we consider to be a regulatory breach. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u80	On what, Senator Gasparri? Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). On a coordinating proposal that I endorse with Senator Floris. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You have not signed any proposals for coordination, Senator Gasparri, and so I do not give you the floor. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Senator Floris, president. Senator Floris is not in the Chamber. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). And I'm signing it up, so I'll illustrate it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'll give you three minutes to illustrate, Senator Gasparri, since it's not yours. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, thank you. I support the proposal to coordinate the text of Senator Floris, referred to in Article 32, which I quickly recall: The delegation referred to in this Article shall be implemented, the limit shall be EUR 3 million for each of the years 2018 and 2019, and the limit shall be EUR 14 million for the year 2020. It's the usual theme of fund scanning. The occasion of this illustration allows me to address Minister Orlando, who is following the work. Minister, you used to make signs of denial while Senator Bernini mentioned an important fact, which we have talked about several times in this House today. Today the Republic reports that you would declare to Liana Milella...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u81	[[Protests from PD groups and Art.1-MDP]] Mr Fornaro (Art. 1-MDP). Present the proposal for coordination! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Fornaro, please don't intervene. CARDINALI (PD). Enough with this story of the Republic! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Gasparri, today you actually more than intervene did the press review. Would you like to continue? His press review was also taken from other senators. Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Let me finish, I'll be brief. This coordination of the text is necessary and I find it serious, Minister, that you do not respond to this House. You said you did not know a technical relief that was sent to you by Canton on 20 April. Did you know him or not? [[Protests from PD groups and Art.1-MDP]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u82	Senator Gasparri, you have to explain the coordinating proposal, otherwise I will take the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u83	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). I confirm the proposal for coordination and invite the Minister to an act of dignity: answer us. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u84	The convening of the Board for the Rules of Procedure is not necessary. Article 103, paragraph 1, of the Regulation, never refers to an expression that has been used several times in any intervention: "formal coordination". It provides for different types of intervention on the text before the final vote: "form corrections", "coordination changes", remedies with respect to already approved provisions that seem to conflict with each other, as well as to provisions that cannot be reconciled with the purpose of the law. Therefore, even in the light of constant application practice, there is no doubt as to the meaning of Article 103 of the Regulation as a rule of closure with a sufficient degree of elasticity in order to give consistency to the text of the law. We have reached a point where we need, I would say, this consistency of the text of the law and therefore, from this point of view, the proposal for coordination is certainly acceptable. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1 (text 2). (Senator Calderoli raises his hand.) Senator Calderoli, we're in the process of voting. Did you raise your hand to vote? Nobody told me about your request for intervention. We shall cancel the vote. Senator Calderoli, you've intervened several times before. What are you talking about now?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u85	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order and on a further request. [[Comments from PD and Art.1-MPD Groups.]] Excuse me, if you don't interrupt, I'll be a minute. Otherwise, if you're gonna moo, I'll take ten.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u86	Senator Calderoli, you have the floor. You have one minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u87	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to refer to Rule 18 (3). You read Article 103, but I refer to Article 18 (3): It is up to the Council to decide on the initiative or examination of any proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure and its opinion on questions of interpretation of the Rules of Procedure submitted to it by the President of the Senate. The interpretation of the Rules of Procedure refers to everything, including Rule 103. If you do not want to convene you, say that you do not want to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and take responsibility for it. Then, before we proceed to the vote by show of hands, I ask for the quorum to be checked.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u88	There is no point in me repeating what I have already said. It seems to me to be an unnecessary over-existence. Verification of the quorum Mr President. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of draft law no. 2134, 456, 799, 1180, 1210, 1225, 1366, 1431,1687, 1690, 1957, 2060 and 2089 PRESIDENT. Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1 (text 2). It's approved. The coordination proposals C2, C3, C4, C5, C6, C7, C8, C9, C10 and C11 are therefore not included. We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2134, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD, Art.1-MDP and Senator Bell.]] Consequently, the draft law no. 456, 799, 1180, 1210, 1225, 1366, 1431, 1687, 1690, 1957, 2060 and 2089.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u91	BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I have to say, given my explanation of vote in dissent from the Group, that I voted in dissent from the Group and abstained on this measure. Instead, Senator Quagliariello, like the whole Group, voted against this measure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u92	The family members of Guglielmo Marconi are present in the Chamber, to whom we greet you also being close to the anniversary of the eightieth anniversary of the disappearance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u95	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, this is unfortunately a little late. However, despite the difficult political moment and the seriousness of the issues we are facing, this Assembly must dedicate a moment for remembrance and pay homage to a great artist, actor of cinema and television, writer and screenwriter who has just left us, Paolo Villaggio. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It doesn't take three minutes to tell who he was, all his long career, his works, his collaborations (with his friends Fellini, Monicelli, Avati, Comencini, Salce, Gassman, Ferreri, De André), and all the honors he received during his long career. After all, we all know him well, we quote him, we still see him wandering among us, because in his genius he described us Italians as few others have been able to do. Ultraitaliano, as defined on the Beppe blog: it seems to me a perfect adjective. Yes, because with his characters and his poetics he was ruthless in showing us how we really are, grotesque if you like, surreal but pregnant and full of realism. So much so that we will continue to quote him forever, because with his characters, more than everyone has centered in full who we are, with our faults and our little souls, without ever absolving us, without ever false goodness. And he was able to describe how hard, but also sweet, the reality of those who face life every day, perhaps with a less march but with a big heart, always with great humility and that despite everything reacts. (Follow AIROLA) The most beautiful teaching lies precisely in those few but fantastic moments of revenge of his most famous character, who moved us almost to tears for joy, as for the famous joke at the screening of the super megadirector sick of the cinema of itai or for the rock pulled to the windows of the office where he worked saying the famous joke "You have screwed me all my life." Awareness that I hope will accompany us forever. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Dear Paolo Village, we will never forget you. I am sure that your message, your characters, the representation of Italian human and cultural nature will remain in our minds and hearts forever, because you have managed to touch us in the depths of our souls. Thank you, Paolo! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u96	Thank you, Senator Airola. The Presidency shares your remembrance and I agree with you that three minutes are absolutely not enough for such a remembrance.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u99	PADUA (PD). Mr President, I take advantage of this very important moment, but not just for myself: for my Iblea community. I have asked questions several times in this House and in the Commission and I have spoken about the conditions in which Iblea has been living for about three years because of so many difficulties, but certainly one of the most important reasons is the extraordinary deafness of a director-general who leads that direction and who, closed in his eburnea tower, has reduced - to virtually zero - every relationship and form of dialogue with the health staff of the company, with easily imaginable consequences on the health of citizens and citizens of the entire Iblea community. I come to this House this morning because the measure is really full these days. In fact, in that Province, from a health point of view, there is anxiety, concern, confusion linked to the transfer from the old hospital to the new one. For those who do not know this story, in Ragusa there is an old hospital (there are two) and another one was built. The Director General had a mission, which was to close the old hospital and transfer its activities to the new one with the deadline of June 30. You understand that deadlines and targets are very important, for many reasons. Well, a transfer from one hospital to another was decided when the new hospital was still not functionally adequate. There was a rush, a haste to go to show that he was making a commitment. It is honourable that commitments are being kept, but hospitals must be adequate and functioning because care is taken for people who are ill and need to be supported in the most important, most just, most correct and most professional way possible. Well, it happened that, unfortunately, the new hospital was not adequate; the prosecutor put the seals to the operating rooms and so we arrived at a really dramatic result, so the old hospital is no longer available because the operating rooms were disused and transferred many equipment; the new one is not available because it was blocked by the proxy (and of course the transfer was blocked). It happens then that the surgery of the other hospitals of the two big cities is overworked, they are already full of their patients, they are overloaded, they do not have sufficient staff and they ask the doctors and the staff to overload themselves with everything that the other hospital did. This is not possible because there are neither beds nor staff. We are in the summer period, so the staff should go on vacation; we know that they need rest shifts because it cannot be overloaded and then there is total paralysis. There is a huge effort on the part of all the staff who make themselves available, but there is the inability to handle this moment of confusion which, to date - thank God - has not resulted in serious consequences; but we do not know what will happen in the next few days. I have received many solicitations from doctors, staff and patients who are discouraged and worried. I have tabled a question in which I request an urgent inspection of the Minister of Health. I ask that the Director-General be removed, because he no longer has the lucidity and serenity to lead a truly suffering reality. We are in the summer, increasing the presence of people in that area, that of Montalbano and the sea, which is a beautiful area in its completeness. We are in a place near Pozzallo, where the landings are more and more numerous and the people are transported to Catania because there is no room to give birth to Ragusa. We can't tolerate this anymore. I feel obliged, as a citizen, as an institutional representative, as a doctor, to say these things out loud because I do not want to be co-responsible. I have been saying this for years, but the measure is now indeed full.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u102	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, 4 July 2017, at 8.40 p.m. on another day that has been overcome despite the daily difficulties that all humanity has faced silently: precisely at the moment of family tranquillity, mortars and grenades have subtly struck a village in the Füzuli district of Azerbaijan, destroying forever two lives and renewing terror in a community in search of peace and progress alone, Those who dared to kill a grandmother and her two-year-old granddaughter and seriously wound two other people are the Armenian armed forces, who are unaware of the visit of the co-chairmen of the OSCE Minsk group to the region and of the related calls for change of status quo through substantial and serious negotiations. Armenia is conducting systematic, deliberate and targeted attacks on the civilian population especially against women, children and the elderly. The videos of these attacks are online all over the world; they are direct and deliberate attacks, almost terrorist attacks, against the Azerbaijani civilian population and constitute a serious violation of international humanitarian law and human rights, the Geneva Convention of 1949, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. There are, as if that were not enough, many international resolutions, including four UN Security Council resolutions, which require the withdrawal of Armenia from the occupied territories of Azerbaijan and the return of Azerbaijani refugees (about one million people) to their lands. These documents are constantly ignored, demonstrating that Yerevan's objective coincides with the maintenance of the status quo, with systematic provocations and sabotages along the border line. The resolution of the conflict cannot be without the withdrawal of the armed forces of Armenia from the occupied territories, the presence of which is the greatest obstacle to the resolution of the conflict. This violence must be stopped. The Italian Government, in view of its role in the OSCE presidency next year, and as a member of the OSCE Troika, is called to work in this direction for a quick solution to this terrible conflict. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u105	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I take back what the President of the Fat Senate had to say at the end of the sitting. My group today wants to remember the eighty years since our colleague passed away, because he was a Senator of the Kingdom from April 30, 1914 to July 20, 1937. I'm talking about William Marconi. His daughter, Princess Elettra, his nephew William with his wife Victoria, François Rancy, director of the radio telecommunications office of the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), Gabriele Falciasecca, president of the Guglielmo Marconi Foundation, and the engineer Baldacci of the Ministry of Economic Development. Our Group wanted to remember him not only because he is a colleague, but because those who speak to him live in an area dear to Senator Marconi, our first Nobel Prize for Physics in 1909, which gave prestige to Italy in the world: to him are named streets, gulfs, historical points (I visited one in Canada, where he did a famous experiment). In my land of Lunigiana, in La Spezia, he was even an officer of the Navy. In that area he was hospitalized following a road accident, on a road leading to my country, where he lost an eye (it was named after him a curve of that road). In addition, the Gulf of Tigullio is also called "Golfo Marconi." He lived with his family in Versilia and I know that his daughter continues to attend her, because in summer they are frequented habitual high Tuscany. It was a physicist, a self-taught. His niece reminded me that he failed physics four times at the University of Bologna, then received 16 honorary degrees and had the first Italian Nobel in physics. Not to mention the communications with wireless telegraphy, via radio waves and radio telegraphy, which have been systems that have started radio telecommunications and television. I remember him in a television image - there are still, if God wills, programs dedicated to him - when with Pius XI he founded "Radio Vaticana": he made the Pope speak for the first time and they could hear him all over the world at the same time. He was a colleague of ours. He is now eighty years old since his disappearance, and we miss him. Thanks to him millions of people, with the famous SOS, were able to receive rescue anywhere and especially at sea. Mr President, at 3 p.m. there will be a press conference with the family in Sala Nassiriya, which has given me the willingness to attend also Vice-President Gasparri, who has always been a friend of the family. I would like to remind you that at the age of twenty, as a self-taught boy, not in a garage but in a room near home, on a night in December he woke up Dad and Mom and made them hear the sound of a bell far away: he could, wirelessly, ring a bell. Having a son who did this, I think his parents had an incredible enthusiasm and pride. This is a human memory of his experimentation. Its municipality bears its name, Sasso Marconi, and is famous not only for its long lines on the highway, but also for the name of one of the Nobel Prize winners and most important inventors that Italy had in the last century. With this memory, we want to give a hug, as a Group, to daughter Elettra, who obviously bears the name of an important ship on which the experiments took place. I also remember the survivors of the Titanic, the biggest disaster a ship had: hundreds were saved thanks to the fact that, with the SOS, hundreds of people could be reached who would otherwise have died. I remember how they welcomed him enthusiastically when they arrived in New York: their survival is due to him. Mr President, the Group extends a warm greeting to the daughter and family of our fellow Senator, who gave a real Nobel prize to Italy, starting as self-taught. Someone was right when he said that we are actually a country of navigators, inventors, heroes and people who gave lustre to Italy and the world. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Barani, the Presidency joins his memory and renews his greetings to the family. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u108	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, today there is a local public transport strike, which is paralysing an important part of our country. This strike was called by some trade union acronyms to protest against the abolition of Royal Decree No 148 of 1931, which took place during the conversion of Decree-Law No 50 of this year, nicknamed Manovrine; we have already discussed it in this House and I have already spoken about it. I believe it is right to say to these workers and to the trade union acronyms representing them that their concerns and commitments that had been made in the 8th Senate Commission, through President Matteoli and myself, have found a concrete relapse. This morning, in agreement with the rapporteur for the measure on the Mezzogiorno, Senator Tomaselli, we tabled two amendments signed by me and Senator Matteoli, which are the result of an agreement built and sanctioned yesterday at the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, which contain two fundamental elements, which concern the two major elements of concern that have produced this day of mobilization and strike. The first amendment contains a precise specification of the social clause in the local public transport sector, with a strengthening of it in relation to the rule that has been repealed. In particular, the transfer of all workers, excluding managers, is ensured; all rights acquired by workers are ensured, regardless of the formal instrument of the transfer; above all, the application of the national collective agreement of sector and of the second level or territorial one applied by the outgoing managing entity is guaranteed. The second amendment, which is equally important, contained in the second amendment that we have tabled, which we hope will be accepted by the competent Commission, concerns the protection of workers in companies declared unfit, by ensuring that the fight against tax evasion, provided for in the rules of public transport included in the labour market, passes through the first use of unfit workers, so as to avoid any risk of their dismissal. It seems to me important to tell the workers who today have struck out that we are a step away from the solution to the problem and that the 8th Senate Commission, as it undertook to do in the hearing of trade union signatures, took note of the work done by the MIT table and turned it into a parliamentary action. At this point, since this House will shortly be voting on this measure, with the adoption of these two amendments we will be able to sanction the case that led us to the repeal of Royal Decree No 148 which, as we know very well, has always been a firm point for workers in local public transport. This not only brings back what we have repealed, but also, as far as the social clause is concerned, we are going to strengthen the protection of workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u111	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly in this House to tell a small story, which is often repeated in our Italy, in which only the usual known ones are always seen going to occupy armchairs. That is why my speech is addressed not only to the House but also to the citizens, to inform them of what is happening. The following happens. I was going to write a question to the Minister of Infrastructure Delrio to ask him how compatible the appointment, which we read in the newspapers, of the coordinator of the technical structure of mission of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Professor Cascetta, to president of the Metropolitana of Naples SpA, which is a private concessionary. The technical mission structure plays very important roles within the MIT in terms of strategic planning, impulse of new works, design, high surveillance and monitoring on strategic infrastructures. It seemed quite strange then that this appointment was made, but then I read a report according to which Professor Cascetta resigned as coordinator of the technical structure, but at the same time the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport appointed him president of the Network Motorways of the Sea, a company in house of the same Ministry, whose shares are totally held by the Ministry of Economy and Finance. We are therefore faced with an ordinary professor - of whom we do not discuss the competences - full-time - because we have the document in which he declares that he is an ordinary professor, full-time, at the University Federico II, Naples, from which he also receives an emolument - who is the president of a private concessionaire, who is appointed president of the Motorways Network of the sea and who, moreover, as reported in his statement, perceives a vitality as a former city council member of the Campania Region. This doesn't violate any law, it doesn't violate any law. What happens is very strange. The strange fact is this, that there are people who occupy so many seats and that this is normal. This normality is inconceivable: our country is full of good and competent people and it is not possible that it is always the same people who hold so many positions, all charged to public finances. This way of doing things is unacceptable and it should be that, for once, we begin to understand that it is necessary to set in motion the incredible and enormous capacities of this country, avoiding that the usual barons - because it is they we are talking about - continue to do the beautiful and the bad weather. Italy can do it if we remove these things. [[Applause from Senator Paglini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-06-LEG17-Senato-sed-853.ana.u112	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.33 p.m.
