ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the time limit of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (at 17.04).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2692, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during the afternoon sitting the Government representative replied and examined the amendments and agendas relating to the articles of the decree-law, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u7	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present for the benefit of the Report the speech I had prepared but which I will not read, having chosen to try in these few minutes that I have allowed myself to cross, if I may, the reasons of the heart with those of rationality, to make a broader speech that will not take me outside the scope of the subject, but that will offer the Government and the Assembly some more reflection, even at this time when there is only one explanation of vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes you to attach the text of your speech to the Minutes of the sitting. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). Mr De Vincenti, you know how much I appreciate you and how much you have followed your commitment on the many occasions you have visited the regions of the Mezzogiorno, including mine, with a great sense of balance and responsibility. However, allow me to tell you that your efforts and that of the Government must go further, much further. In the opinion of the Conservative and Reformist Group - Directorate Italy, the theme of the Mezzogiorno can and must go further, becoming that culture on which not only pacify relations within politics, but also - let me say - push politics because it takes back its dignity and function. I am talking about a policy that is called to work to repair the short circuit that exists between the Square and the Palace; an irreconcilable, quarrelsome, distracted, incapable and irresponsible Palace that has lost its harmony with the problems of the country (then we are amazed how the urns respond in occasion of some elections held in Italy and also overseas). On the other hand, we have an unbelieving and dismaying Square, struggling with the problems of survival, which are also of dignity; a Square distressed and frustrated by the old and new emergencies. I am referring not only to budgetary problems, but also to the subject of the Mezzogiorno, which can and must become the land of redemption for a policy that regains its role. In fact, as the Italian Bishops' Conference said a few days ago, taking back the data of SVIMEZ, inside the problems of the Mezzogiorno is written the history of lives and not only those removed from the affection of loved ones because of the ILVA. I am talking about lives linked to the very serious processes of social inequalities which - as we heard a few days ago in the Health and Health Commission - lead to serious health protection situations. We must take a new path and we are convinced that there is a third path, beyond that of populism and demagogy and that of power, its desires and a great deal of attention to its management aimed at the interests of the few. There is another way that, probably, produces minor turnovers from the party point of view, but that would produce many more results on issues such as the one we are dealing with today. Minister, I am talking about the way in which the ethics of responsibility and coherence are recovered, which cannot allow a gap between the statements made in the press releases and those made in the parliamentary classrooms when the amendments are adopted. So, SVIMEZ tells us that atypical contracts increase, fixed-term contracts increase, part-time contracts increase, vouchers increase, stabilisation decreases and work indefinitely, the condition of certainty of an income that allows a person to start a family, for example. This speech is linked to a very serious matter - and I also address Mr Finocchiaro, whose competence I know not only but also great sensitivity - namely that in Puglia it is not passive extra-regional mobility for health problems that worries the most, but the passive mobility of intelligences and young people who go outside regional and national borders and do not return anymore. In fact, when a territory is deprived of its own resources, its own intelligences, its own young people, that territory dies. You see, SVIMEZ tells us how unemployment in the South is very high, ten percentage points higher than that in the entire country; the population at risk of poverty in the South reaches 45% compared to the national figure that is 25%. I believe that these are disturbing aspects that would have made me hope for something more because, Minister, we cannot be satisfied with the fund for the non-self-sufficient, with the semi-clear answer on Ilva, with the 50 million radiotherapy services that are a little bit a ballet of figures that reminds us of the statements made by the then President of the Council Renzi on 26 December 2015 when, on a visit, he promised the activation of a paediatric oncology service to respond to the information that the Higher Institute of Health provided about the data on the deaths of children in that territory. Those 50 million, then, in the bickering within the majority forces and between the national and regional levels, had disappeared. They're reappearing now. Well, I don't think that's enough. We have to go further. I remember that public debt has increased by 150 billion over the last three years. We Conservatives and Reformists sometimes raise our voices to make us feel better but our voice is not the voice of anger, but the voice of the proposal, the voice of responsibility that makes us say that it would probably be necessary to invest resources to reduce the infrastructural gap of our territory. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri, please conclude. Since you also announced that you would hand over your speech to the record, I guess that's just a premise. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (CoR). I shall conclude, Mr President. We need a programme of urban regeneration of cities, a compensation tax, a relaunch of investment, in short, a comprehensive and system vision that requires a real project for the Mezzogiorno. Of course, neither Justin Fortunato nor Gaetano Salvemini, to say that their warnings were absolutely unheard. Our collaboration is confirmed but our vote, today, that of the Conservators and Reformists - Direction Italy, can only be a vote against. [[Applause from the CoR Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u10	STEFANO (Misto-MovPugliaMore). Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to begin my brief explanation of vote on the basis of a premise. Aiming today on the Mezzogiorno means intervening where the crisis has been able to produce itself with the most devastating effects; it means finally putting hand to those territories in which the deepest inequalities are consumed, in which the permanent development gap with the other regions of Italy and Europe becomes easy land of conquest for the increasingly nourished host of fomenters of intolerance, or with populisms or with the regurgitation of anti-politics. Therefore, the cultural and economic rebirth of the Mezzogiorno and the islands can go through a complex and daring plan of structural interventions that aim at finally integrating the South into a reinvigorated European infrastructure, economic and social system. The decision to vote today in this House expresses, in a paradigmatic way - almost as a manual - what are the requirements of a decree-law, that is, necessity and urgency. It is, therefore, a legislative initiative which is certainly as important as expected, but on which, however, the absence of an overall vision of the composite and difficult framework which is our Mezzogiorno, and in which - I say this with absolute sincerity - the legitimate expectations which the title of the measure allowed to feed and to hope seem to be reduced. Wanting to simplify in a very narrow synthesis, also because of the time available to me, not really generous, this is a decree-law that arises with the idea of putting in place important initiatives to help overcome so unbearable criticalities - one on all, the dichotomy between the right to health and the right to work in Taranto - but that seem to belong more to the news than to the chronicity architect that attacks our Mezzogiorno in different ways. In fact, there are no initiatives - or they are insufficient, I believe - particular and structural to be put as a corollary of the emergencies highlighted in the measure and aimed at giving impetus and support to the many and different potentialities that reside in the territories of our Mezzogiorno. I believe, however, that it is intellectually honest, as well as politically desirable, to read and incorporate this new piece of legislation in the broader framework of the most frequently called masterplan for the Mezzogiorno, thus attributing to this measure the value and function of a paver, a more complex and structured road map, and in part already in itinere, which, however, I hope more ambitious political frameworks, aimed at realizing the gap between North and South; finally able to give the regions of the South the tools to emerge from a crisis that does not only dress the clothes of contingency, but, unfortunately, has assumed, precisely, the even more dramatic traits of structurality. In terms of reason and consistency with these very briefly stated arguments, I declare the vote of abstention to this measure, as a sign of confidence, my staff and six other fellow senators, engaged with me on these strategic and important issues.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u13	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Madam President, we have all heard in this House about the southern issue; we have heard about it for years. Even recently it has been mentioned and many had certain expectations of this decree-law. However, in the end, overall the provision is little stuff. There has been a great deal of parliamentary debate; I think that from unification to today it has been a parliamentary issue, so much so that we now also have a dedicated minister. It is one thing to talk about it, to make promises and then to see the results, but this Government has a key role to play in realising the needs and demands of the citizens and it seems obvious that to do this the stated intentions to do so and the promises are not enough. And if it is true that the role of the politician lies also in his educational function, that is to say in setting an example, I do not really believe that this Executive (the Renzi- bis, since it still clearly moves the ranks), as well as the previous Renzi Government, are the emblem of good politics. Let's start from the promises made by the Renzi Government that, in his opinion, would have brought back the South in a blink of an eye, even with all the complexity that the Southern Regions present. How did you plan to do that? We heard Renzi say that he would solve the problem of the South with the bridge over the Strait, or with the clear lie of the completion of Salerno-Reggio Calabria. The bridge over the Strait - said the former Premier - would create 100,000 new jobs, approaching Sicily and removing Calabria from its isolation. Of course, the secretary of the PD (or perhaps former secretary, you do not understand) could answer that he did not have the time, forced, as it was, to leave the place to his successor. This, like others, seems to me rather a nice statement, but Renzi has made so many statements. What about the Salerno-Reggio Calabria that we have been dragging for years? That's it. Renzi has declared that in December would have made the inauguration of the closing of the yards of Salerno-Reggio Calabria: it is true, it has closed the yards, but has not finished the Salerno-Reggio Calabria. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And these are the solutions for the revival of the South? We enter into the merit of this measure which contains the umpteenth norm on Ilva, money dispensed without a real programming, some tax facilitation, changes on the nominations of commissioners (commissari a iosa) and some more units of public security personnel. Do you really think that's enough? Very interesting, however, is the provision on those that have been titled "functional interventions to the Italian presidency of the G7" which instead hide the granting of derogations to the ordinary tendering procedures for works and services contracts. So, if I understand correctly, the new procurement code, which has a year of life, is already being exceeded. In fact, the famous article 63 of the new code of contracts is used to appeal to urgency and unforeseen. Perhaps it was not known that this year the G7 should have been held in Italy? If I'm not mistaken, already in 2011 it was known that the G7 would take place in Italy and there was all the time to plan the works. You see, Mr President, it is not right that citizens and businesses operating in Italy should be asked to comply with the procurement code and instead allow the Government to derogate from it. It is not conceivable: the Government is the first to set a good example of compliance with the procedures that he himself has foreseen. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bertorotta]] I say this precisely to point out that the Government does not respect the rules and commitments, has not respected the European rules on budgetary constraints and now we will be forced, by April, to make a corrective and restrictive maneuver. He did not comply with the commitments made with the earthquake zones: we saw what happened a few weeks ago with the snow emergency and people and animals without a roof over their heads. But above all he did not respect the promise made to his citizens: Italy that is leaving again. Our country today is at two speeds. And it will be for a long time, if those who govern are unable to listen to their citizens and proceed for election ads, all the more so now that its concern is to go to the vote before the next budget law, so as not to have to face the elections with an unspent maneuver as soon as it is launched. So? Here's the new election spot. You make an omnibus decree-law in which to dispense some money. Nothing more. Because nothing is easier in Italy than solving the southern issue with state paternalism. Rather, the real role of the legislator is to find concrete solutions that aim at the well-being of its citizens. Unfortunately, we have seen that many people in the South have abandoned him. And who stays in the deserted villages? Only old opulence and poverty, while human capital emigrates and disappears. But the South, however, has changed, even if the problems are always the same, unfortunately. And if many continue to leave, many, however, remain and remain also because they believe that that land has enormous potential. And it is indeed so, because it cannot be denied that if we really deal with the southern issue once and for all, with a real new Italian deal, without thinking about electoral feedback and favoritism or political pitfalls, the South would be reborn and that would be good, of course, for the whole of Italy. Of course, it is a slow process, but it seems to me that now, with the new generation of young people remaining on the ground and opening up start-ups or with the continuous manifestations of the will to untie themselves from the economic and moral game of the mafias, is the right time. Of course, we need a government that keeps its promises and that, at the same time, sets an example of what good politics is. Otherwise, we will only continue to talk about the potentialities not expressed by that land and to send the ash under the carpet. So, the Renzi government - Gentiloni Would Silveri really want to solve an unemployment rate among the highest in Europe, clientelism and mafias that lurk in every ganglion of the private and public sector, with entire regions intoxicated by deadly waste, among the most beautiful archaeological sites in the world that crumble in the rain, with a measure like this? We don't think so. Above all, the things to do would be really many and for this reason we are sorry to see the non-concreteness of this Government. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u14	They are present in the Chamber and attend to our work representations of students of the Institute of Higher Education Carlo Livi in Prato and of the Institute of Higher Education Buccari-Marconi in Cagliari, as well as a delegation of the Italian Association of Young Lawyers in Bologna. We welcome them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u17	MAURO Giovanni (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is the beginning of the Minister and the new Ministry for the Mezzogiorno with a measure presented to the attention of this House. Personally, I had thought it was a clever, just move, the one made by the Government, the Democratic Party and the nascent Silver Gentilon Government, to equip the Government with a Minister who would deal with the section of the Mezzogiorno. I had found it an intelligent response to an electoral blow that had seen in the regions of the Mezzogiorno the greatest sign of protest against the national government. I had seen in it a reading of the electoral data of the last referendum and, with it, a desire to recover the negative perception in that geographical area, giving concrete response to the needs that had emerged. But if this is the presentation of the new Ministry for the Mezzogiorno, I must say that you really did not understand how serious the discomfort of the Mezzogiorno of Italy is; there really is far, far away, the feeling of the people who live in that part of the country. You have not even begun to think of structural and overall solutions to the problem. Instead, you continued to reason in terms of - as was once said, in the first Republic, when you wanted to identify a way of doing politics - "a Fra', what do you need?" - that is, seeing what is useful to those who are more or less influential in that territory, seeing how one can buy and not conquer from the point of view of reasoning the position that serves at that time. From a Ministry for the Mezzogiorno decisions are expected to be organic. Minister, you wanted to make it clear in your report this morning that these were sector-specific, well-defined interventions, but that we could draw from them more comprehensive and general visions and assessments. When you, in your report, say that in this decree-law we find provisions that can speed up and make the expenditure of Community funds and cohesion funds organic, we should conclude from this that you have absolutely not understood where you have failed in these seven years of governance of the cohesion policies of the Mezzogiorno. I say this because you and your party have been dealing with this important section of the life of our country since the days of Barca, Minister of Government Monti; then you continued with Trigilia and then with her as Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council and, again, with her as Minister. Well, all this time you have followed a principle introduced at the time of Barca, which has proved to be lethal and daunting with regard to the strategies of spending of Community policy funds. Instead of following the example of other European countries, where cohesion policies focus on a core of action, you have divided the programming, entrusted to the Department at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, by the management of implementation, entrusted to the Cohesion Agency. You have set up a dialogue between two structures which, on the other hand, should be a single structure, because the action to be taken during the seven-year period in order to develop a Community programme is unique. In fact, during seven years of programming, the de facto states are necessarily changed, and then those who intervene in implementation must have the possibility and flexibility to modify that programming which, developed seven years earlier, may have seen changes in the conditions for which it was implemented. This ability to modify must be in the full power of those who act concretely and daily for the expenditure. So much so that in this decree-law you needed to insert the funds and the simplification of the procedures regarding the purification works. But where have you been during these seven years, in which the municipalities and regions have stumbled into infringement procedures for not having spent the funds for purification? Where did the monitoring you were supposed to do go? Where has that ability to identify what expenses were not achieved, to change their programming, and those in which to exercise the power to replace the administrations that were not fulfilling what they had to do? We had welcomed, in a very happy way, that will, but unfortunately it had been expressed only in words, to use a certain decision towards those administrators who did not ban and did not carry out their duty for spending in those areas: you did not do any of this. You should have come to this House to say that our structural interventions for the cohesion funds would all be brought into one body by accelerating expenditure, because we are already in 2017, the current Community programme ends in 2021 and several regions have not even provided the necessary programming. Perhaps, on 31 March, we will be able to present the report of the previous plan! This makes us think that, from an organizational point of view, you don't even have the idea of how to do it in order to speed up and give infrastructure to the Mezzogiorno of Italy. But the thing that disappoints me even more than your Dicastery, Minister, is the inability to see the whole thing as a whole. It must be realized that the articulations of the public administration, either directly or in a participatory way, with their own assets, in those societies, in those bodies and in those articulations of the State that deal with the growth of a territory, should be brought to the system. They can not fail to participate in a plan to revive the Mezzogiorno of Italy Trenitalia, ENEL, Terna, Leonardo or all those other bodies directed or participated by the State, that cannot fail to have the same strategic vision and the same need that declares the State to see a South that develops, in order to allow a greater development of the entire Country. You see, from a Minister for the Mezzogiorno we expect an overall political vision. It is not enough for me, not enough, Minister, for you to show that you know that the Suez Canal has been doubled. I want you, as a politician, as a Minister, to take the next step. If there is a doubling of the Suez Canal it is because surely there is a doubling of the goods that need to pass from Asia towards Europe, towards our sea and I expect the next evaluation: how does our country, with its Propagades in the Mediterranean like Sicily, to intercept these new flows of trade, which are flows of opportunity? What is the strategic vision, what are the landing points, what is the image of a logistics platform to intercept them? Because the great ships that cross the Suez Canal can stop on the Italian coast, but they can safely continue, in a globalized world, towards the port of Marseille or that of Barcelona and reach the same continental platform. That is why we vote "no" to this decree-law: for lack of soul and lack of brain. For lack of soul, because once again you show that you do not have at heart a policy for the Mezzogiorno and that you have not understood the despair that has been grasped with full hands also through the popular vote. And there is no brain, because you cannot intervene where, precisely and punctually, you should, in order to free the Community resources of the cohesion funds, but above all to allow the great international entrepreneurship, also in project financing, even with modern tools of partnership, to modernize the South of our country through trade, tourism and agriculture of avant-garde. [[Applause from Senators Augello and Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u20	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, Minister, the measure before us is a kind of mini-financial law which concerns the Mezzogiorno. The chosen form is that of an omnibus decree-law, characterized by a coacervo of dispositions, which the House has helped to increase enormously. It's hard not to agree with the individual positions. Is it possible to oppose an intervention on Ilva? Or the need to intervene on the sewage system in order to avoid an infringement procedure by the European Commission? Is there any objection to contributions to employment, to school and, more generally, to culture or to individual territories? Not to mention the sums allocated for the G7, the importance of which is such as to prevent any intention of early dissolution of the legislature. Of course you can't. But having said all the good we can, let us not be deceived: it will move little. The tragedy of the Mezzogiorno will continue to be what we know and the policies we have been experiencing so far will continue to be a major failure for the recovery of the possible development. It takes more than that, an expression worn out in the political lexicon, but extremely significant and full of implications if it refers to the Mezzogiorno: a great crisis in the Italian crisis; the consolidation of a deep fracture that splits our country like an apple, creating two different and opposed realities. Let me remind you of some basic data. Since 2008, the year that marked the failure of Lehman Brothers, the Mezzogiorno has fallen by 13 points, with a loss of employment estimated at half a million jobs. In 2016 alone, the poor below the minimum income levels increased by 218,000 units. The risk of poverty is three times the national averages. These simple data are enough to photograph a tragedy that is not only economic but humanitarian. Since 2015, Minister, something has moved. GDP grew by 1% in 2015, compared with 0.7 in the North and 0.8 in Italy. But also this data must not be emphasized: the growth of manufacturing has been consistent, but above all as a result of the activity of Fiat Chrysler Automobiles, in the production of cars, which should make reflect those union forces that, in the past years, were fierce against the so-called Marchionne care. Positive signs were also seen in the textile and clothing sector, but it was the flight of a swallow. Already in 2016 the parameters have returned to being, so to speak, normal (i.e. negative), with a regression of the rate of development of the Mezzogiorno compared to the remaining part of our country, demonstrating an envelope that will certainly not be this decree-law to modify. The current political situation, I realize, forces us to fly low, to give little consideration to those who demand real investment, that is, to create the prerequisites of possible development, and not only to spend so much to spend, as we have done so far, to avoid wasting those few breaths of oxygen that derive from the use of Community funds. But can this be the recipe, Minister? Can we delude ourselves that we did not say what I could, but the minimum trade union to address not a problem of a sectoral nature, but one of the central nodes of the Italian crisis, in the right perspective for which, if the territories of the South will not start again, the same Italian economic development will continue to show that aphasia that we well know? Mine wants, therefore, to be a testimony to future memory, but for it to have some effect it is necessary to start a reflection now, and that the same can then be translated into programmatic lines to be included in the electoral programs that, at the natural end of the legislature, can be submitted to the electoral body. We must be aware of the limitations of the most recent Italian experience. The reforms that fall from above - we have had the last witness in the taxi drivers' strike - without making them metabolize at the social level, inevitably translate into a boomerang that forces us to go back, fueling further frustrations both towards those who oppose, and among those who, instead, hope in their possible, but unlikely, take off. And that's why we have to come back to reason and try to grasp all the complexity of these difficult times. That does not mean making minimalist proposals. There is neither time nor the necessary degree of realism. If you want to interrupt the perverse spiral of the crisis. What is clear is that the Mezzogiorno cannot continue to be a prisoner of an administrative fragmentation which sees in the regions, as we know them, a factor of disintegration capable of disrupting any unified vision of development. We are faced with a territory the size of which requires a policy that rejects the logic of the "campanile" and measures with the structural problems that prevent its possible take-off. The mind inevitably returns to the experience of the Cassa del Mezzogiorno. The intuition of Pasquale Saraceno, then, made a leap forward to the entire Italian economic culture, getting it out of the sands of a librarian liberalism that no longer found a match in the most advanced international experiences. Those were the years in which the Mezzogiorno, even in the small amount of funding resources, made a decisive leap forward feeding the Italian development chain. That experience went on for years. In the end, like all human things, he first suffered an arrest and then a regression. It is important, however, to note that its involution coincided, to a large extent, with the birth of the Regions, which affected the unitary vision of development, in order to give rise to that localism that still today represents the great ball at the foot of Italian public finance. Reflecting on that experience, in the light of our days, leads us to say that we must review the overall architecture of the lower branches of the institutional articulation of our country. We can no longer afford the cost of twenty regions, five of which have a special statute. It is not by chance that in the abhorrent constitutional reform the most valuable piece was the one related to the modification of Title V, which many disasters have brought in the overall management of the public administration, whose simplification - other than spending review calibrated on the consumption of pencils! - can only go through a reduction and amalgamation of institutional levels at territorial level. Remodulation is necessary if administrative structures are to be brought back into line with the underlying socio-economic transformation processes already affecting the individual territories. Of course - the friends of the League do not want me - Padania does not exist; instead, the North-East, with its productive structure strongly oriented to export; there exists the North-West, which still reflects the characteristics of the old industrial triangle; there is a central Italy, where the'made in'found its natural hub, and there is a Mezzogiorno, marked by the infrastructural deficiencies that we all know, where the dependence on the Centre-North is still too similar - unique case at international level - to the old relationship that characterized the links between the great western metropolis and the countries of the old Third World. Already in this territorial configuration, which reflects the real economic and sociological composition of the different areas, there is the answer to our problems. I said mine was a memory surgery. If we want the next one to be a constituent legislature, these are the issues that we must put at the heart of the political agenda. Today we can only do what we can. I understand, therefore, the position of the Government; its limited horizon forces small steps, which however resolve little and nothing. However, this understanding cannot result in uncritical adherence. Therefore, our vote, unlike others who will abstain or vote in favour, will not be favourable, even if we can understand the effort that the Government has made in these urgent interventions for the social and territorial cohesion of the Mezzogiorno. It is, however, a breath of air for a patient in a deep coma. There is a need for real and structural interventions by a strong government. [[Applause from Senator Langella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u23	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to avoid any easily predictable rhetoric in my speech when it comes to issues relating to the historical division between North and South. However, I would like to take note of some of the considerations which have been put to our attention by the Minister in his report this morning. More than just making the usual list of the complaints of what the past should have been and is not and what the future should be and maybe it will be, I believe that we are more interested in making a reflection on two fields: the content and the methodological one, that is, in other words, on an area of substantial and on another of a formal type. In the substantive order there are two aspects to consider: there is a very precise quantitative dimension, that the conversion of the decree-law under consideration makes available as far as the funds are concerned, that - it is well to clarify - are destined to critical situations, that is emergency and that, using syntactically reflection on the word itself, can only tell us that everything that has not been done for the past and that, consequently, has given rise to critical acuzie, needs absolute answers, that are just as fast and equally valid from the contentistic point of view. With regard to the quantitative profile, which the Minister recalled in his speech, in the context of the conversion, it has been possible, through the fruitful work of the rapporteurs, the Commissions and the Assembly itself, to create another methodology, which is not simply a pedissequa availability of funds, which are left so, and then, if necessary, see if, after years, they have been virtuously used and invested. This is not the case, and it is right that there should be a continuum, within the framework of the bill under consideration, of a broader action, than before with the Renzi Government and, subsequently, with the Gentiloni Government. Silveri gave rise to an approach, which in technical terms is called masterplan for the Mezzogiorno, and to its application through the Pacts for the South. This means concreteness, which led, for example, in the last budget law, to the increase of almost EUR 11 billion from the Development and Cohesion Fund, which therefore now has a total budget of around EUR 55 billion. Certainly this is a considerable sum, but which, although considerable, cannot guarantee - and it is logical that it is so - the solution of atavistic and ancient problems, which require a constancy of action, a presence, a continuity in accompaniment and vigilance, which are meant to mean attention, which is not only instrumental to criticality, but that is a political vision where the dimension of the Mezzogiorno is no longer - it is the hope even if this will certainly not be resolved in a short period of time - that of the famous southern question, which dates back historically to 1861. It is still unresolved, no doubt, but it nevertheless gives rise to a disposition of willingness to concretely offer solutions to critical issues that must have a response. Minister, there are two aspects that have particularly impressed me, perhaps because of a matter of sensitivity, not personal, but inherent in the titration of your Ministry and the title of the decree-law in conversion. I am referring to a word that I believe must involve us all and that is the word 'cohesion'. The dimension of this word is taken from political ethics and public ethics, a dimension that leads us to be solidarity and allies. We find this cohesion in two areas and, as I said, it has particularly impressed me as an objective. On the one hand, Article 5-a sets out the objective of redevelopment and technological modernisation of the latest generation of cancer radiotherapy services in the regions of the Mezzogiorno. Already in itself, giving rise to a availability, for a share of 100 million euros, means that a complete, urgent and immediate response is given to inconceivable deficiencies that characterize health care in different regions of Italy. It is clear that by giving the availability of know-how, software and tools, we offer the possibility of achieving that famous principle of equity and equality, in the area of health care, recalled and codified by Article 32 of the Constitution, which I believe can find a not definitive answer, because it would be utopian to think of it, but certainly concrete in terms of assistance. Of course, if at this point you were to ask me what else could be proposed, we should think of the famous oncology networks, which in certain cases in the South are very poorly represented and in some cases completely absent. Secondly, there is the increase in the non-self-sufficiency fund. This is an ethically sensitive issue, because we know that non-self-sufficiency is a reality that will give rise to an even greater number representation at the social level in the coming years. Turning to the concrete content dimension, I would like to remind you of some data. Under the 2015 Stability Act, funding of EUR 400 million was provided for this fund for 2015 and an appropriation of EUR 250 million from 2016 onwards; this appropriation is also intended to finance interventions to support people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. In the 2016 Stability Act, the allocation of the Fund for non-self-sufficiency was increased also for the financing of interventions to support people suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, with a total of 150 million euros per year starting in 2016. Therefore, the appropriation under the Fund from 2016 onwards amounts to EUR 400 million. With article 5 of the decree-law in conversion it has given rise to an increase of 50 million euros for 2017 and therefore we arrive to an amount of 450 million euros. Of course, these are significant resources which, as I said earlier, will be accompanied, monitored and followed so that they are not sums of money lost, that is, of which we will never know what the last use and the last purpose will be, which could also be far from the one from which we started. Minister, I certainly speak from the south and therefore I must point out that the structural, redditional, social and functional distance of the Mezzogiorno from the most advanced parts of the country tends to grow, as it has been known for several years thanks to its technical and political knowledge. I believe that all of us must firmly reject the idea that the Mezzogiorno still needs special policies; it needs policies that can respond to the critical issues, but not to special policies, because they are very different things. For a sort of equation I would say that the South is to Italy as Italy is to Europe, so it is easily intuitable what it wanted to mean by bringing this equation back to our attention. But perhaps in the end, Minister, in the context of our political activity, the responsibilities that we assume in representing the needs and needs of a little forgotten social reality and that even for their own faults in certain realities have led to economic and social desertification, it is appropriate to refer to that famous principle of John Rawls, author of the work "A theory of justice" which, in the context of his reflection, had to say that it is necessary to create (of course not referring to the Mezzogiorno but talking generally) the famous equality of opportunities. I believe that this is the political point of reference, because starting from the equality of opportunities there is the hope that in a short and reasonable time there is no longer any need to intervene on the critical issues and there is no longer the equation for which the Mezzogiorno lies to Italy as Italy to Europe. I would say that the Mezzogiorno is in Italy as Italy is in Europe. I therefore declare the favorable photo of the Gruppo Per le Autonomie. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and the Senators Marino Luigi, Di Biagio, Fucksia and Susta.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u26	WRITER IN TOR (AP) (Ncd-CpE). Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the People's Area Group will vote in favour of this measure. The aim is, once again, to encourage the development of the southern economies. It has been said that if some urgent questions relating to critical situations in the Mezzogiorno are addressed, this measure cannot be considered definitively resolving the numerous, serious and major problems that still affect this area of the country. No doubt, in fact, it is not a decree-law that in two months he heals the wounds of neglected and martyred territories for decades. However, we are called to vote on provisions which, in our opinion, are intended to solve certain emergencies and serious problems. In addition, we are aware of how the Commission operates in conditions of serious difficulty, due to an economic crisis that still afflicts our country and which results in a chronic shortage of available financial resources. With the Pacts for the South and the Masterplan for the Mezzogiorno, the previous Government has taken the road of building a systemic project for the southern regions, but we believe that, at the same time, a more comprehensive vision of the Mezzogiorno of Italy must be developed, for which coordinated and harmonised measures are needed, in order to support an overall picture of measures affecting the most diverse sectors of the economic and social fabric. We believe, for example, that the entire infrastructure network must be expanded and modernised in order to overcome the gap still existing between the regions of the South and the rest of the country. To this end, we need a more focused policy that can solve the problems related to Regions that, if properly involved, could overcome the current situation that appears, instead, still critical, thus offering an important contribution to the growth of the entire country. It is therefore necessary to do more efficient and effective work, eliminating waste and making the best use of Community resources, which are certainly a driving force for development, thus implementing the fundamental policies that can favour these often neglected territories. We are in favour of this measure, because it is, in any case, the sign of a certainly more complex action which is needed to revive our Mezzogiorno once and for all. The measure contains a number of provisions which we consider to be positive. Already in its original version, it touched on a number of particularly important issues - from the ILVA to the G7 Presidency in Taormina - but, even more so, with the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, it has enriched itself with further important elements. I am referring to the issue of tax credit for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is an appreciated instrument because it facilitates the purchase, even through leasing, of new capital goods. Several original limits have so far significantly slowed down their use by companies. From here, finally, the attempt of the decree-law to give greater incisiveness to this incentive. The tax credit measure was increased to the maximum permitted by the European Union: in December 2019 the rate will increase from 10% to 25% for large companies, from 15% to 35% for medium-sized enterprises and from 20% to 45% for small businesses. This seems to me to be a significant and important step. This provision also extends the basis on which to calculate the facility. The benefit, in fact, will no longer be valued in relation to the total cost of the acquired goods net, but before tax depreciation. At the same time, the thresholds for eligible investment projects for small and medium-sized enterprises are raised (from EUR 1.5 million to EUR 3 million for small enterprises and from EUR 5 million to EUR 10 million for medium-sized enterprises), while the ceiling remains at EUR 15 million for projects and large enterprises. Another positive provision is the amendment to the Anti-Mafia Laws Code as regards the rules on property confiscated from the Camorra. We all have experience - unfortunately - of how difficult it is to be able to use the property confiscated from the mafia and the camorra and how many years such procedures require. Thanks to the measure introduced, not only the assets confiscated by the Mafia, but also those of mob companies organized in the form of companies, can be assigned to the Municipalities. I quote, again, the provision concerning distribution and logistics in the Mezzogiorno. The norm previews a potenziamento of the level of the services on the national logistic net of well 5 million euros, contribution that turns out functional to the completion of the investments, with particular reference to the nodes, ports and platforms of the South, in order to reduce the digital divide, and also in relation to how much previewed from the plan of the portualità and the plan of the logistics. In addition, we find a number of diversified measures aimed at redevelopment and technological modernisation of oncology radiotherapy services, an almost abandoned reality in our Mezzogiorno, a measure that has long been awaited. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the increase in the Fund for non-self-sufficiency, the establishment of the Agency for the administration of work in port and for vocational retraining, as well as the integration of the Cassa Integrazione treatment for employees of the ILVA group. All the rules, as we said at the beginning, are intended essentially to try to solve the contingent needs of industrial sectors which are indispensable for the economic and productive sector of the Mezzogiorno, which the careful policy of this Government has certainly not neglected. We hope, however, that further significant interventions will soon be carried out within a vision that assumes the overall picture of the Mezzogiorno as a fundamental element, in order to address and resolve the problems of an Italian territory that represents the keystone for the economic and social revival of the entire country. For all these reasons, and in line with the positions it has always taken towards the Mezzogiorno, the People's Area Group expresses its support for the measure, with the hope that the approved measures can have effect quickly, effectively and penetratingly, in all the southern regions. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u27	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Catholic Parisian Institute of Salò, in the province of Brescia, who are attending our work and who are today visiting the Senate. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u28	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u30	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, while we consider that this measure contains some measures from our point of view that are appreciable, such as those relating to the health funds of the city of Taranto or also the allocation of additional resources to elevate the treatment of the extraordinary integration fund for the employees of the Ilva, the provision of a plan aimed at guaranteeing support interventions for the disadvantaged families of Taranto, the urban regeneration of Bagnoli, or the measures for the institution of the national commissioner for purification and a agency for the job for the relocation of the employees of the ports of Gioia Tauro and Taranto, we believe that it continues to be spoiled by a really no longer bearable character of emergence. The South continues to be seen as an emergency and not as a great opportunity for growth for the entire country and we of the Italian Left think that the great theme of the deep gap is not yet adequately addressed, in terms of economic, social development, rights and opportunities, to which instead we should remedy with public investment policies that can finally try to give some structural response. Unfortunately, this is exactly the opposite of what has been done in recent years. Investment, as we know, collapsed between 2009 and 2014. Capital expenditure rose from 3.9 per cent of GDP to 2.3 per cent and the 2014 figure reached the lowest peak in the entire historical series. This, of course, explains very clearly and very clearly the dramatic figures in the South in terms of employment, particularly youth employment, but also in terms of the competitiveness of companies and growth in general. We are well aware of the data that speak of absolute poverty in the Mezzogiorno, tending to a very significant increase in recent years and unfortunately, in the face of this situation of dramatic structural emergency, the interventions are, from our point of view, very little decisive and indeed largely insufficient. There would be a need for a policy on combating poverty and social suffering. We have also tried, in the examination of this decree-law, to imagine and present some amendments that could go precisely in the direction of organic interventions aimed at ensuring the Mezzogiorno a cohesive set of structural and effective measures, also starting, for example, from that interesting study on the economic situation of the Mezzogiorno, made by the CGIL and in any case from the fact that without a robust growth of the Mezzogiorno there is no possibility of a generalized reversal of the economic cycle. We have tried to say, even with our amendments, that instead the buffer measures contained in this decree-law are useful in trying to intervene simply on some contingent urgencys but are not able to give structural answers. The SVIMEZ, in the hearing held in the Budget Committee, also noted from its point of view that only through the adoption of a national policy for the South will it be possible to intervene to reduce the current gap, as well as to overcome the structural weaknesses of the entire country system. We believe that with this decree-law, certainly too emphatically announced by the Government, is disappointed that expectation of an organic measure of economic, social, industrial and environmental policy; in short, an overall element capable of impacting towards the great suffering of the Mezzogiorno and that it should have tried to consolidate and make less episodic those very slight signs of recovery that have been recorded, since 2015, in the framework, however, of a persistent fragility of the southern production system of social emergency. We said during the presentation of the amendments - and we repeat this - that our amendment, approved in the House's Budget Committee, which takes into account the interesting indications that emerged during the hearing of the representatives of SVIMEZ, could have started a mechanism that, once activated, could have filled that gap with respect to the Centre-North of the Country, indicating the objective of allocating to the interventions in the territories of the Regions Abruzzo, Molise, Campania, Basilicata, Calabria, Puglia, Sicily and Sardinia a total annual volume of ordinary appropriations in capital account proportional to the population of reference or complying with other criterion relating to a specific criticality. It was therefore the proposal to review the scale of investment expenditure on the basis of actual territorial disparities, on the basis of those proposals already made at the beginning of the 1990s. We in the Italian Left say, not from now on, that the Mezzogiorno needs a national programme of industrial policy, which looks at the strengthening of existing settlements, at the enhancement of industry and agricultural transformation, at the reunification of supply chains, at the re-use and conversion of entire abandoned industrial areas, at the establishment of high-innovative productions, at the ecological conversion of industrial productions with a high environmental impact: one for all, of course, the ILVA of Taranto. To conclude my speech I also say that we have very strong doubts about the measures planned for the implementation of the G7 in Taormina: we are concerned - I also say this to the Government - about the procedures and derogations related to the interventions necessary for its organization; that is, we do not really want to be faced with mistakes of the past, even with the risks of mishap and violation of the rules. For these reasons we cannot announce a vote in favour of this decree-law: we will abstain, considering it a missed opportunity. We really would have needed a structural measure, capable of reversing the dramatic trend of these years. This decree-law is not a structural measure but, once again, it is a summation of buffer measures that, however, we think cannot be sufficient and are an element of counter-trend compared to an increasingly accentuated social and economic gap of the Southern Regions towards the Centre-North of the Country. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u33	MORRA (M5S). Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in advance of the House that the 5 Star Movement has decided to abstain on this measure, but the abstention that I have to promote and support is for me, elected in a southern region, a sort of forced force, because I personally would have preferred to vote absolutely negative, because that was the judgment that, from the south, I drafted by studying the measure itself. However, I would like to say this analytically, because it is right to make an analysis: you rightly say - as Senator Romano said - that everything must be handed over to a logic of social and territorial cohesion. But, Minister, cohesion means including, it means approaching, it means making those who every day discover that they are increasingly suffering from relative or absolute poverty feel less distant. We have then forgotten another protagonist of the southern contemporary issue: emigration. It is right to know that, while in recent years the country has been hit by migratory flows that have seen it with difficulty to welcome asylum seekers from Africa and Asia, it is equally true that hundreds of thousands of southern, often southern young people, young people strongly educated or even universityized, have been forced by us to go out, with an infinite sadness in the heart, because according to the flagship social and territorial cohesion we have promoted only and only measures that it is euphemistic to define emergent. With regard to environmental provisions, Articles 1 to 3d concern environmental issues: the first article deals, for the twelfth time in a decree-law, with the issue of ILVA. Evidently those born in Taranto will have to rediscover their origins, related to the city of Sparta, get pissed - excuse me if I use this verb - come here and claim respect for his right to health. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u34	Senator Morra, let's try, at least in language, to respect the Senate. There are other words to express the same concept. [[Senator Buccarella's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u35	My colleague's right. What's that saying? When the wise man points to the moon with his finger... All right, let's not, because we have to avoid some hypocrisy. We go to reason of Taranto, but in Taranto, in fact, we always give an intervention by the State, then the Rivas will provide when they have, and who knows when they will have. It is finally provided in favour of some Apulian municipalities that deserved intervention, also because in those municipalities there are cancer rates, which affect mainly children's, hallucinating populations. But we'll find some money on them. Then, as the environment is also this, we intervene on energy efficiency projects, allowing the postponement of certain deadlines for obtaining incentives. Too bad these energy efficiency projects are in favour of large plants, because in the South there is also this to pay: if you are small, in addition to being southern, you have to pay double. In spite of what is supported by Article 3 of our Constitution, so we should all guarantee equal treatment, we in the South, treat differently the companies that want to make energy efficiency: if it is big, well, if it's small you fool! Can I say it's fucked up? [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u36	Actually, it'd be better if you didn't.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u37	MORRA (M5S). This is true of energy efficiency. Then there is Article 2, which provides for adaptation to a number of judgments condemning the Court of Justice of the European Union. I invite all my colleagues to go to the government website "Il Portale dell'Acqua" (The Water Portal), from which we can see, by clicking on the interactive map, that almost all the problems related to purifiers are concentrated in southern Italy, that southern Italy which for decades has been governed by regional juntas and local authorities who have quietly divided themselves, except then intervene with some omnibus or milleproroghe decree-law or, as Senator Barani said a moment ago, deserving in itself of the need to keep the legislature alive, because with this decree-law we would guarantee the South the possibility of restarting. We check that the South is in conditions, also and above all environmental, disastrous, and what do we do? We give him a little contentment, through an even paradoxical instrument. You are, in fact, Commissioner, with this article, setting up a single national commissioner who will always depend on you, because those you have sent us have been ineffective. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I skip some points of my speech, even if you should think about Bagnoli, to get to a passage that, in my opinion, is also fun. You guys are amazing. There is talk of redevelopment and technological modernisation of the latest generation of cancer radiotherapy services in the Mezzogiorno regions, and there is EUR 100 million to ensure that public health in the Mezzogiorno is able to guarantee essential levels of care that it obviously does not maintain. Too bad, also in this case, that all the southern regions are governed by majorities similar to the governmental one and that on health there are commissioners, in the region from which I come even from 2009, that have not led to any return of the deficit of the health expenditure. It is a pity that it is your men who have reduced the right to health in the South to something ectoplasmic. What did I mean by my reflection? That at this point, since we in the South are migrants also from a health point of view, because when we have to fight some tumor we have to take care of Milan, Florence, Rome or Bologna, perhaps it would be the case (and I am provocative) that, rather than giving them to the South, we give these 100 million euros to the hospitals that have the southern ones treated. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Senator Tarquinio evoked a large absentee in his speech yesterday. In this scenario, asphyctic, emerging, episodic, in the opinion of Senator Tarquinio there was no reference to serious and obliging investments in the field of justice and, above all, the control of the law. I have to correct Senator Tarquinio because, in Article 3-d, which deals with the security of the territory and the fight against crime, there is, in order to meet operational needs in some areas of the Mezzogiorno, an increase of ten (take care of: ten) units of the average force of auxiliary officers of the Carabinieri Arm. We can therefore let our friends know, with whom you occasionally work for an exchange vote, that we, with ten additional units, will fight crime even more effectively. I don't want to go any further because the measure doesn't deserve all this attention. I just want to remind you of what SVIMEZ, punctually, reminds us every year, and reminds you, sending to all of us parliamentarians, dutylessly, the classic brick (it used to be taught Μέγα βιβλίον, μέγα κακόν ), from which data are provided to understand what the Mezzogiorno needs. The SVIMEZ wrote it quietly, and it was born also thanks to a certain Pasquale Saraceno, whom Senator Barani just recalled. The SVIMEZ unfortunately indicates, using the English language, drivers for the development that, in this case, were, if not marginally, touched. The South can, for example, be mainly Mediterranean logistics. Very well; you intervene also on the Authority of harbour system of Gioia Tauro; for Gioia Tauro preview the institution (due to the occupational crisis) of the Agency for the administration of the job. Leaving aside proper economic considerations, I would like to remind you that you still have to appoint the President of the Port System Authority; until that President is there that agency will be politically castrated. The South needs investment in culture. It is a pity, however, that culture in the South is not only in Matera: there is a system in Sicily, Campania, Puglia, Calabria that deserves support. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. MORRA (M5S). What do we do for the southern universities, for the southern research centres? We spend, we study, graduate and perfect southern young people and then we tell them (because we do not practice Keynesian policies but clientele and parasitic policies): We're sorry, you're good, but here you won't be able to produce added value, so vavatinne (in dialect), because this land doesn't deserve you. You still treat the South as a subordinate province, as Luigi De Rosa wrote a few years ago, who teaches at LUISS and who has studied it and proposed it to you. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Mineo. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u40	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, the title of this decree-law makes us hope: it is a hand - one thinks - to organic interventions for the Mezzogiorno: welcome, we think. An analysis of the text, of course, blatantly denies that title: the measure will give rise to a series of rules, all very clumsy, that in the times of my speech I will try to illustrate, at least in part. It is obvious that there are some abstractly acceptable norms in this decree-law. (18.27) (Following Mr Azzollini). There is an improvement in the treatment of extraordinary Cassa Integrazione for some ILVA employees, which is of course positive; there are improvements for some oncology therapies in the Mezzogiorno, and this is positive. But I am always concerned about these rules, because the problem of these decree-laws is not so much what appears, that is, the allocation of funds for a certain purpose, as the execution necessary for that purpose to be achieved. If you look carefully, you will see that these funds are already subject to a myriad of decrees, agreements and programmes, which make it clear how these measures risk long times, which cannot be tolerated by the communities concerned; but they are above all the result of interventions that could have found an organic, not episodic and - I repeat - unsuffazzonata like the one they find in these institutions. Given these two or three positive norms, then comes the whole of the pearls and - to think badly is a sin, but often guesses - perhaps the real reasons of this decree-law are highlighted. I deal with some of them, even though my colleagues have already done so, because some of them are really interesting. Article 2 has a very interesting title, as it concerns the issue of European infringement procedures following two judgments of the Court of Justice concerning collection, sewering and purification systems. We are already impressed, because it means that we are chasing a situation that has seen us condemned in the European Court of Justice; but then we just have to decide whether reading the text is hilarious or tragic: what does this article actually contain? It deserves to be read to be well understood. It says that, under this decree-law, extraordinary Commissioners appointed for the adaptation to the sentences of the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered on 19 July 2012 (Case C-565/10) and 10 April 2014 (Case C-85/13) will cease their duties and a single Commissioner will be appointed for the adaptation to the same judgments. This makes it clear that it is quite clear what I said earlier: these are only rules that, if you like to think well, are the result of serious malfunctioning of government action, because in December 2014 two commissioners were appointed to execute those judgments and, two years later, these are made to cease office and another one is appointed. Or, much more likely, as was the custom of the former and of this Government, what matters is neither merit nor competence, but the friendship of the appointed with respect to the one whom he appoints. And it is so accurate, this decree-law, that it even deals with establishing the number of members of the technical secretariat of the commissioner; that is, it uses a decree-law, and to it is attributed an urgency and extraordinary character, to replace something that already exists and to put something new that will certainly delay the time for the execution of the sentences and could even trigger the infringement procedure. Even incomprehensible is article 3-d. But, in short, is it possible that, for some needs of territorial security and cohesion, the Carabinieri's weapon is increased by ten units for a year in the whole of the Mezzogiorno? This is frankly incomprehensible. It almost seems to see the certificate of goodness that a government seeks with someone, because ten units of carabinieri, for a single year, what sense do they make? They are lost - I think - not in the Mezzogiorno, but in a country in the Mezzogiorno, not in a city, but in a country in the Mezzogiorno! And then carabinieri for a year! I was incredulous and went to see the cover: the cover is for a year, equal to 500,000 euros. It is truly worthy of a government that is badly governed in an obvious way. Moving forward, what about other articles (I quote some), which are really the signal of bad management? Interesting is Article 7. What does Article 7 do? To the eye-catching canton (it seems to me that's called the president of a national authority that should control almost everything, including the color of my hair) you blow with this article the observance of the procedures for the G7. Why are we using a procedure that derogates from the procurement code, which is not allowed to ordinary companies? Because it must be done quickly, in the face of unpredictable events. I wondered if then obviously the G7 is something that happens suddenly in a country. I went to see the rules. The G7 is assigned to a nation according to an annual predetermined order; therefore it is known with an advance of seven years. But international standards are not like this decree-law and say that, in case the G7 is a G8, with the participation of Russia, when Russia presides, the advance becomes eight years. In any case, with a minimum of seven years and a maximum of eight years, it is known when the G7 will be presided over by its own nation. That is, we knew at least seven years ago, if not eight years ago, that in 2017 we would have to organize the G7. And do we need to derogate from the Public Procurement Code for interventions for the G7 Presidency? This, of course, does not arouse Dr. Cantone's wrath. This derogation is not a small one, because we go to a negotiated procedure without prior publication of the contract notice; i.e. it becomes a competition made at the fireplace (I think so). I don't know if Dr. Cantone will be at that fireplace; at least he'll be there to see if there's any business to enjoy it. It is hard to say, but there is no other reason, because - as I have tried to say - it has been years since all this was widely anticipated. On the other hand, the issue of 1.2 billion merits great consideration on Ilva. While working on this decree-law, a judge in Milan did not accept the plea of plea put forward by the prosecutors that allowed the return of 1.2 billion to be used for environmental reclamation. This was widely discussed in the decree-law of January 2015; in it there is talk of environmental reclamations, but there is no reflection - nor has the Government done so - on the fact now certain that those 1.2 billion at least will be delayed of a very significant period. So the whole process will certainly take place with much more difficulty. Such an important sum, 1.2 billion - yes, of urgency, because it was made during this period - is not considered in a measure, and instead we are dealing with all the other small issues. Mr President, I have almost finished, because I forgot a very interesting rule, relating to Article 3, which makes the lungs swell, because its heading is interesting, it is titled: "environmental bonification and urban regeneration of areas of important national interest-comprehensory Bagnoli-Coroglio". Reading it, you might think who knows what you do in this decree-law. One interesting thing is done: there was a directing booth (already the name creates some suspicion of ruffling), which was presided over by a State Secretary to the Presidency of the Council, who in this case was Professor De Vincentis, then Undersecretary. I renew my greetings to Professor De Vincentis, who has been appointed Minister. He makes an urgent rule with a decree-law for which the Minister, that is himself, is to preside over that cabin that was not there before. We agree, Professor De Vincentis, and we are convinced of his irreplaceability. Just because we have not been able to amend this measure I have not tabled the amendment which would have preserved it for at least the next 50 years, so that we have been sure that you would have chaired the steering booth for at least 50 years and we would finally be the protagonists of your irreplaceability. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] It would have been a real pride for us to be able to tell the citizens of Taranto. Meanwhile, between the Commission and the House, I remembered how you, Professor De Vincentis, warned me.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u41	Remember something also on a next occasion, because it has already exceeded the time at its disposal. You can't remember everything tonight.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u42	Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Just one last ride. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We'll give you one last memory. Mr Azzollini (FI-PdL XVII). Professor De Vincentis had invited me to go to Taranto for the ILVA. I confess that I didn't know until you told me; I didn't know how to go to the ILVA and then I looked into it these days and I knew for the first time - look a bit - that from my country a bus leaves, three times a day depending on the shifts, to go to the ILVA, unfortunately with fewer people, for obvious reasons. I went in a hurry. They showed me how to go and I asked if we could go together next time, so finally she'll be there. From their gaze happiness was not the most obvious aspect, but I'm sure going along with her will finally make them happy. However, their gaze convinced me to vote decisively against this measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] and LN-Aut). Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u45	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Mr President, Ministers, and in particular Professor De Vincenti - to whom Mr Azzollini gave us a final gift - who followed this measure, ladies and gentlemen, I listened between yesterday and today in this House to the debate on the measure that we are going to vote on and I was frankly curious about some statements and statements by the oppositions, because of the vagueness and inconsistency of the objections and criticisms that have been made to this measure. Paradoxically, on the one hand, there is a lack of a policy for the Mezzogiorno and, on the other hand, there is an excessive criticism of the practicality of the measures included in this decree-law. Some complain about the excessive cumbersomeness of the measures and others expected the decree-law to sum up seventy years of southernist debate in our country. Actually, it's not about either one or the other. I wonder what a policy is if not a set of measures and interventions within a vision: precisely the concreteness of the measure corresponds to another, certainly small but significant, piece of a renewed policy for the Mezzogiorno that the Gentiloni Government Silveri has intended to consolidate in continuity with the measures initiated by the Renzi Government, beginning with the masterplan, which was accompanied by not a few mistrusts and hostility, but which has given place over the last twelve months to the so-called "pattti" (pats), which have been signed with all the eight Regions of the Mezzogiorno and all the seven metropolitan cities of the Mezzogiorno, to which Taranto has been added with the institutional contract of development. It was a very simple job that the then Undersecretary Claudio De Vincenti, who on behalf of the Democratic Party Group I would like to thank for the work done in recent months when he followed the measure, led with great wisdom and competence and involved Regions and local communities - as it has not happened for many years - in the identification of priorities in the field of infrastructure interventions, as well as of an industrial, environmental, social and cultural character. In an intervention, which appeared more a meeting than a reasoning as critical as the merit of the decree-law, I heard how on the subject of culture in the provision there is little or nothing. In fact, this is not a decree-law on the themes of culture, but in those pacts, alongside infrastructure, environmental and social interventions, there is also a lot about culture. These interventions have then been included in the individual pacts and will activate, as Minister Claudio De Vincenti himself recalled, about 90 billion sure resources in the next six years. The policy for the Mezzogiorno in the last two years has therefore taken shape, finally trying to put to the system the finalization of Community and national public resources, which in reality - it must be said the truth - have never been lacking, but have experienced dispersive and little incisive gestures. In addition, there has been a unified and integrated governance between the national government, regions and local communities. In recent days Minister De Vincenti himself has had the opportunity to meet the social partnership, Confindustria and the trade unions, in order to take stock of the merits of the projects and activities included in the pacts. The same choice, in the composition of the Government Gentiloni Silveri, to dedicate a ministerial delegation to territorial cohesion and the Mezzogiorno is nothing more than a further piece of this renewed policy and vision that makes attention to that part of the country a priority issue for the entire Government. In this context, we must place the measure we are examining, which has addressed not the southern issue, as we have known in the last seventy years, but individual issues, some really partial, others that can be included in more general focused reflections, beginning with the more complex affair of the Ilva of Taranto, that in this measure finds answers first of all in reaffirming the priority of the implementation of the environmental plan in the context of the process in progress of the cession of the business complexes, as well as in the matter of the protection of the health of the workers and the citizens of Taranto through, on the one hand, the interventions aimed at strengthening the public health and, on the other, to guarantee an adequate intervention of the Cassa Integrazione gains in a difficult phase that the company lives for years. My dear colleague Mr Azzollini, we should all, however, ask ourselves what the situation would be now if the various governments and the various parliamentary assemblies - in fact, in recent years, two legislatures - had not intervened, albeit repeatedly, to keep up the epochal challenge of countering the need to continue to produce in the largest steel plant in Europe, a decisive part of the national manufacturing industry, with the theme of health, the environment and sustainable development. What would be of that city and of those workers, whom you, Mr Azzollini, have had the opportunity to meet and which certainly cannot but be doubtful and in crisis, with a future certainly not simple to look at, but that without the work done in these years today would be people without perspective? Today that perspective is still present, thanks to the work done by this Government, the previous one and the majority that supported these choices. What, then, are these concrete and targeted interventions if not further steps towards an organic policy to relaunch and exploit the potential of the Mezzogiorno? I will not go back to the individual issues, which have been mentioned here by the speeches of various colleagues and by Minister De Vincenti himself in his reply to today's afternoon sitting and I shall confine myself to calling them back for titles. As far as intervention on waste water purification is concerned, there are certainly delays, often due to conflict between local communities and regions, bureaucratic problems and insufficient policy. It is intended to finally put hand on this issue, with a clear and transparent assumption of responsibility, that the Government wants to do, even with courage - and I believe that this courage should be supported in some way is appreciated - by identifying a single commissioner, who can not only avoid the Community infringement to which our country is subject, but also bring to fulfilment a challenge of modernity, of protecting the environment and the sea, but also a great challenge for the relaunch of the potentialities of those territories. As for the Agency for the transhipment and the administration of the harbour job, it is draft also in this case of a great topic, but as you can imagine to throw again the Italian portualità, made probably of 1.000 ports of call, that they must be concentrated and strengthened, if they do not requalify the workers and does not give itself a program of valorization of the professional potentialities, than also there are in that world of the job, in order to candidare Italy - with Gioia Tauro, Taranto, Cagliari - to be, still more than we have not been in these years, a logistic platform projected in the Mediterranean? We still think of the investment made, not only in the allocation of substantial resources in the budget law, but also with a consolidation of what has been, in recent years, the instrument of incentive of investments of the enterprises best used and most appreciated by the system of enterprises, that is, the tax credit, of which the effectiveness is increased, both compared to the ceilings supported of contribution and investment, and with respect to the possibility that more resources can be channelled around a single investment. It is a tool that has made automatism and therefore effectiveness its main norm. Then there are other measures that I am not here to recall, but which give a sense of commitment. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in the Chamber of Deputies, the Association for the Industrial Development of the Mezzogiorno (SVIMEZ) and the Institute for Services for the Agricultural Food Market (ISMEA) presented data suggesting an important change of pace in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. For the first time, the GDP of the Mezzogiorno has increased more than that of the Centre-North, with 0.8% compared to 0.5%. If the Mezzogiorno grows - though little - more than the rest of the country, it means that a consolidated trend has been reversed for too many years. If this has happened, the merit is certainly of the Mezzogiorno, of many local communities, of many enterprises, of many young people, who have set out again, helped also by the reforms put in place in recent years, but also, for example, through the relaunch of one of the sectors that seemed to be starting towards the decline and that today is the protagonist of the recovery: agriculture. As we come to the conclusion, we are very clear about the remaining weaknesses and unresolved limitations. I am thinking of major infrastructures, starting with railway interconnections, the need to strengthen support for the production system, research and the formation of human capital, tourism and culture. Today, however, even in approving the decree-law under consideration and the measures included in it, we can claim (and we do it as a Democratic Party) with absolute firmness that in recent years, thanks to the Renzi Government and today to the Gentiloni Government Silveri, we have reversed the tendency that for too long has seen a focus on the Mezzogiorno full of words and commitments, but too poor of acts and policies. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in declaring the Democratic Party's vote firmly in favour of the conversion into law of the decree-law on measures in favour of territorial cohesion and the areas of the Mezzogiorno, we can well say that we now finally have a policy for the Mezzogiorno, with acts and measures that go in the direction of re-launching and realizing its extraordinary potential and the results - we can proudly claim it - are really beginning to come. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u47	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u48	[[Comments.]] CUOMO (PD). Mr President, there is an attempt at intimidation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, do not intimidate dissent. Senator, you speak as a free man. CUOMO (PD). Mr President, I disagree with the reasons given by the Group representative, Senator Tomaselli, and also because I would like to begin this speech by reminding Minister De Vincenti of what he had to say in this Chamber on 25 July 2014. I could and should read the shorthand report to fully justify all the doubts that have accompanied me in taking a decision to vote on this measure, whose title is at least bold. Minister, on 25 July 2014, you committed yourself in this House on behalf of the Government to eliminate an odious and unfair tariff discrimination in the matter of RC Auto in the draft competition law. Minister, I must remind you and the Government that this commitment has not been maintained and this has been a further slap on the south and the southern citizens. The doubts remain, the hope is that you and the Government will be able to have an active repentance in order to maintain the commitment you made in this House on the elimination of tariff discrimination in the area of RC car: this too, in fact, would be a serious way of promoting a cohesion policy. I must say, however, that these days and hours are particularly difficult for my party and for the Group to which I belong. Therefore, not wanting to add further difficulties, I will vote for the measure in question only because of group discipline, but with great suffering. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u49	So yours was a partial dissent. Dissent should be linked to a different vote. Let's just say he was anticipating the end-of-session speeches. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. GIARRUSSO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u52	ORRU' (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to ask for the answer to Question 4-06031, which I tabled on 29 June 2016. The inspection act concerns the allocation of the tuna quotas allocated to Italy by the European Union and, in this case, the failure to allocate tuna quotas to the Region of Sicily and, precisely, to the tuna trap of Favignana, home to one of the oldest tuna traps in Italy. The allocation of tuna quotas, as well as the subject of the aforementioned question, of which I would like the reply, has been the subject of other my initiatives, including a letter sent to the Minister and the Undersecretary with delegation to fisheries on 7 January 2016 and a further question, submitted on 22 March 2016, to which the Government, although having announced an answer during the afternoon session of 23 June, has not at that moment addressed the subject of the same. I have repeatedly asked in writing the answer to the question and the persistent silence, after several months, by the Ministry, in spite of the demands, today obliges me to intervene in the Assembly, not being able to accept the total lack of interest not only in the problem, but also in a territory - my territory - which has an important tradition linked to tuna fishing and its processing, which are part of generations of the cultural and historical heritage of the population of Trapani. In conclusion, I would like to stress that, for 2017, the European Union has established a 20% increase in tuna quotas for Italy, which the Ministry of Food and Forestry Agricultural Policies will soon have to share, according to European legislation, among all the Italian regions in which fishing is carried out. Mr President, for the reasons set out above, I would ask you to send the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy this further reminder, in order to be able to answer Question 4-06031, on the issue of the allocation of tuna quotas and the fixed tuna trap in Favignana. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u55	DI BIAGIO (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Mr President, I recall that in this House it was intended to recall, with a commemorative approach, the events that took place in 1992 in the Nagorno-Karabakh region, calling for a partial and limited version - alas - of what has been a complex page in the history of that region. I would like to comment on what Mr Rizzotti said yesterday in the afternoon sitting, which I appreciate and appreciate, to point out that the aspects that flow into the reading of the historical-political scenario recalled by his colleague are many and varied and cannot be limited to a functional synthesis of this or that part. To speak of Armenian invasion, reducing the complexity of the entire territorial impasse to a phantom responsibility of the Government of Jerevan, a sin of historical and historiographic superficiality, ignoring both what really happened in those lands, and what happened between the parties in the next twenty-five years. There is no reference to the fact that the Armenians of Nagorno Karabakh have reaffirmed their right to self-determination through a referendum for independence, nor to the related supporting role of Armenia, as well as the provocations of the Baku Government and the Armenian rhetoric that, at the moment, represent the most important limit for the success of the negotiations mediated by the Minsk Group for the peaceful settlement of the conflict. Speaking of genocide with reference to the Khojaly massacre, means accepting a unilateral vision of the event, properly structured by the Government of Baku and denied by the facts, while also neglecting the parameters of international criminal law used to qualify the genocide itself. To neglect this means to ignore the facts and to convey partial information, which is likely to elevate to truth because it is conveyed in an authoritative frame like the Senate of the Republic, because this is a serious country. Mine wants to be an invitation to the analysis of all the historical, political and diplomatic variables currently involved on the impasse of the region and, as a country part of the Minsk Group, we have the responsibility to proceed in this direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u58	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to express first of all human solidarity with that adult person who, twenty years ago, suffered violence from his mother's partner and who, after twenty years, did not have justice because the crime was prescribed. This seems to me to be the first feeling to express. The second feeling is to feel embarrassed, as a citizen of this country, because it is not conceivable that in Italy facts of this nature can happen. We measure the civilization of a country, we measure the sensitivity of a country and I believe that, in this respect, we must all apologize to this person and pose the problem of a society that does not have to allow these things. Moreover, it is absolutely incomprehensible that justice can take ten years for a trial of first degree and another ten years for the second degree in the face of carnal violence on a minor. There's no excuse. Minister Orlando said that he will take disciplinary action and all the checks on the case. I really hope that we will get to the bottom of this. However, I believe that this episode, also with respect to the reform of the criminal process and the penal code and, more generally, to the reform of the trial, raises two issues: on the one hand, in this delicate point, I believe that the prescription for crimes of this nature should be subject to careful consideration, because they are among the most abominable crimes that can happen. Secondly, I want to reiterate here a very strong conviction: the reform of the codes is of little use if they are not costume reforms and if they are not reforms in which everyone feels involved and responsible, because when faced with a machine of justice so blind, there is a problem involving lawyers, magistrates and the state as a whole and rather than doing refinements of procedure, we really need to know how to intervene with extreme determination on the mechanisms of justice. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u61	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I am here to comment on a fact which has taken place these days in Vittoria, a small town in the province of Ragusa, about which Mr Padua spoke this morning and on which I have put a question. I would like to point out that the rot in the market in Vittoria, one of the largest fruit and vegetable markets in Southern Italy, does not concern the products but the behaviours, not only those of many operators. I refer to the fact that these behaviors are known, that is, it is known that there are and are widespread illegitimate behaviors, and that by the State there is not only a clear and declared position, but also effective. One of the most serious things that happens in that market is that many commission agents, and therefore intermediaries, are at the same time buyers of the goods at the producers. They, therefore, cut the producers who find themselves, in addition to having to face all the problems of the international markets, also this pressure inside, at home. All this is well known. That then mafia organizations, believingly, can come to burn three great means of a consortium recognized as free in that territory, then subjected to particular pressures, adds only evidence to a fact that - I come back to say - it is known to all, namely that in that market they act mafia or paramafia forces. So, at this point, it is important, on the one hand, to prevent economic actors suffering such damage from going into ruins and it would not be the first time that economic operators are cut, subjected to attacks and then let go into ruin by the State. This must not happen: it would be a further, unbearable defeat. After that, it's time to counterattack. An association of the victorian, the Sicily Green Table, suggested - and I have collected that suggestion and I propose it to the government - that the market be commissary, because it is not manageable by the local agency for a matter of power relations. He suggested that the state should enter that situation with both its feet and impose the right, because it makes no sense to call ourselves Western, it makes no sense to call ourselves civil if we then let the citizens be cut by criminals and live in a state of continuous pressure without prospects. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u64	Mr Manassero (PD). Mr President, senators and senators, with this speech at the end of the sitting I intend to continue the relay with which, together with many senators and senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a sentimental relationship. We have committed ourselves to doing so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgent need to stem violence against women. In Porto Santo Stefano (Grosseto), last February 15, Edwige Anna Costanzo, of sixty-eight years, was strangled with a computer cable by her husband, who, after confessing the feminicide to a friend, went to escape, then to be arrested. On the same day, in La Spezia, Rosanna Fortunato, aged 79, was killed by her husband who hit her in the head with a heavy kitchen chopping board, after a violent fight, and then went to the Carabinieri and turned himself in. This is how 39 women we remember in this relay, started only on June 30, 2016, and there are as many as six in 2017 alone. In both cases the two men admitted that they had lost clarity, that they had made a tragic mistake. Without a doubt, we are faced with tragic events which, unlike the many other cases in which we have intervened, do not seem to have a history of violence behind us, but they are nevertheless placed in a long wave of men who think they can dispose of the life of their wives. ISTAT informs us that a woman is killed in Italy every 2.2 days. 46.3 percent of the women killed die at the partner's hands. The severity of sexual and physical violence has increased and cases of assisted violence are also growing, as is the urgent need to protect orphaned children with feminicide. Femicide is almost always the ultimate result of a series of long-standing violent behaviors. With Law No 119 of 2013 against gender violence, which this Parliament approved in implementation of the Istanbul Convention, our country has recognised violence against women as a violation of human rights and gender discrimination. He acknowledged that violence against women is a social phenomenon that has its roots in the relationship of asymmetrical power between men and women. This is why it can be prevented by intervening on the factors that determine it. That is why a plan against violence against women has been proposed and approved. And in the meantime, instruments of protection have been strengthened to ensure greater safety for women under threat. However, it is necessary to monitor that these measures work and that the plan is implemented. Let us make our appeal with conviction. It is an appeal to the Government all and to the Undersecretary with delegation to equal opportunities: the directing booth must monitor the application, the merits and limits of Law No 119 of 2013, and above all must give full and accurate implementation to the plan against gender violence. An appeal to the media: stop justifying, even with the wrong language, the murderers and to blame women. An appeal to the country, men and women: 160 women are killed every year and we can no longer accept this massacre. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u67	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to remind this House of the meaning of the word 'excidio', namely:'strage', which is exonerated by the number of victims and the violence of methods. I would like to remind Senator Di Biagio, who spoke about the Armenian occupation of the territories of Azerbaijan, deconstructing as "scaramocce" what happened in Khojaly on 26 February 1992, a massacre historically documented by various journalistic investigations at European level for the information of the media. I also inform the senator of this and invite him to go check out this historical information.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u70	BATTIST (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, on 17 and 18 February the conference was held in Trieste, where the Manifesto of non-unfriendly communication was presented. I would like to mention a few points in this manifesto: 1. Virtual is real. I say or write on the net only things I have the courage to say in person. 2. It is what is communicated. The words I choose tell the person I am: they represent me. 6. Words have consequences. I know that every word I say can have consequences, small or large. 9. The insults aren't arguments. I don't accept insults and aggression, not even in favor of my thesis. Why did I want to bring these points back? It was yesterday's news that Bebe Vio, the paralympic screener, denounced the authors of a Facebook page where she was subject to threats of sexual violence. The Facebook page has been removed, but is present in Google's cache. Anyone who wants can also go to see the level of violence that we have reached on social networks. With this speech I want to express my full solidarity with Bebe Vio, this girl who has been able to show us how much courage she has had in facing the difficulties of life and at the same time in denouncing these people. I think we should start to realize that our online world is what we risk finding ourselves in our offline world: what is virtual or, more correctly, what is digital is also real. Today, in the 8th Commission, a draft law has been tabled by me, which should be an opportunity for Parliament and the Government to seriously consider how to effectively combat the spread of violent content on the Internet. The hope is to discuss it quickly, enriching the discussion of content and quickly handing over to the Government a framework of principles shared by a large majority. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bencini and Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u71	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-22-LEG17-Senato-sed-768.ana.u72	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 23 February, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.15 p.m.
