ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 26 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Rome, 9 November 2017 Mr President, I inform the S.V. that the President of the Republic, with his own decree today, adopted on my proposal, accepted the resignation from the post of Deputy Minister and State Secretary for the Ministry of the Interior resigned by sen. Dr. Filippo BUBBICO. F.to Paolo Gentiloni.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2942. The rapporteur, Senator Lai, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fiscal link represents, together with the budgetary law that we are preparing to examine in the next few hours, the move to start the budgetary manoeuvre for the current year. The measure allows us, at the same time, not only to discuss the important measures contained in it, but also to make an overall assessment of the work carried out in recent years. Our country is today in a state of public finance under control and with economic growth that stands at good levels. In short, we are in a position to finally look to the future with greater confidence and more security and with the awareness of being able to further improve the conditions of competitiveness of our economic system, continuing along a path that combines attention to budgetary balances and incentives to investment for structural and lasting growth. The overall picture is different from that of the beginning of the parliamentary term and has seen us hard engaged in these years. In the last four years, in particular, the direction impressed by the governments was immediately clear and guided by the need to start a path of decisive economic recovery and then to feed it. After a terrible rate of GDP reduction of 5.5% in 2009, and a second fall of less 2.8% in 2012, the Italian economy in 2014 finally showed a reversal of trend and the picture we are facing today, three years away, is quite different from that moment, at the beginning of the legislature. Two basic data confirm the reversal of course. Gross domestic product, after a long period of difficulty for our country, moves towards a level of growth higher than expected in the current year, to reach the threshold of 1.5 percentage points, with the latest projections and some communications provided by the main financial authorities during the hearings, and to confirm itself on these levels also in the coming years. The public deficit - this is the second element - is under control and is moving towards a path that will lead to a balanced budget in 2020, while the primary surplus, which is expected to grow in the coming years, is among the best among the Member States of the European Union. I want to say that these elements are based not on forecasts, but on the fact that in recent years, whenever a given or an objective has been envisaged, it has not only confirmed itself, but has also exceeded expectations, demonstrating a strategy that lays the foundation on solid foundations. In recent months, the pace of growth has increased more than expected and the benefits are also reflected in labour market developments. Economic policies, together with the reforms and various policies launched in recent years, have restored credibility to the country, in Europe and among economic and financial operators. And the tax decree, linked to the budgetary maneuver, is part of this political-economic context, which must be confirmed, strengthened and helped. As anticipated, the measure before us is part of an overall budgetary manoeuvre. It contains a number of measures which contribute, on the one hand, to the coverage of the various measures envisaged in the maneuver - including the partial sterilization of VAT - and, on the other hand, to correcting the progress of the current year's accounts, with particular regard to some minor revenue, such as those related to the evolution of voluntary disclosure bis for less than 1.07 billion. Looking at the effects of all the measures contained in the measure under consideration and in our draft budget law, it is evident that overall the proposed uses amount to 34.4 billion in 2018, 27.2 billion in 2019 and 19 billion in 2020. The resources proposed by the maneuver are, on the other hand, 19.5 billion in 2018, 11 billion in 2019 and 11.4 billion in 2020. The measure, in the text presented to the Senate, was essentially based on four guidelines: firstly, a package of tax measures, including the extension of the simplified definition of loads, the reopening of the so-called dismantling of roles, the extension of the legalism of the split payment, the sterilization of VAT clauses relating to excise duties, the extension of the tax credit on advertising campaigns in support of the media and the fiscal interventions in favour of those affected by those exceptional and terrible weather events last September. The second director is a set of interventions in support of companies, such as the refinancing of the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, alongside interventions for corporate transparency aimed at regulating hostile climbs, and measures to protect against external threats of strategic companies for the country. This changes the discipline of the golden power, with the introduction of thresholds of possession exceeded which the buyer is obliged to declare his intentions in terms of further acquisitions of modifications of the parasocial pacts and the administrative bodies. As the third director, I quote a set of refinancing measures linked to the general security system, with the refinancing of international missions and the re-setting of plans for the recruitment of police forces and military personnel. The fourth guideline is a comprehensive package of measures to address different needs. I would like to point out in this context the refinancing of the employment fund and the monitoring of safeguard measures in the area of pensions; environmental reclamation and urban regeneration; the liquidation of the Italian Red Cross and the financing of strategic plan objectives related to research, assistance and care activities and related to the improvement of the provision of essential levels of assistance. (The sitting was suspended at 9.42 a.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 9.42 a.m. and resumed at 9.42 This is the initial text. In the course of the examination in the referent, beyond the arguments contained in the original text of the decree or of some directly or indirectly related to them, a series of topics of more or less general interest, some already emerged in the course of previous measures (the Mezzogiorno decree, the so-called June maneuverina). In a climate of satisfactory convergence between the forces of majority, no less than of sensitivity on the part of the minority forces, an intense and tiring work of construction, of mediation has been carried out which - thanks also to the constant and effective support of the Government - has shown a wide willingness to confront, has allowed to arrive today in the Assembly with a shared text. And for this important constructive effort I want to thank all the political forces present in the Commission in this Parliament, the Government and, in it, in particular, Deputy Minister Morando. During the work in the Budget Commission, a number of substantial amendments were made to the text, several of which also came from the opposition which, as a whole, confirmed the general arrangement of the measure and improved certain aspects, significantly widening the areas of intervention. In transposing, in fact, many of the observations that emerged during the joint investigation and consultative phase for the entire budgetary maneuver, in the end some clarification, improvement and integration of the forecasts that more than others gave rise to interpretative doubts, uncertainty about the concrete effects and concerns regarding their scope. I refer, in particular, to the tax measures contained in the first part of the measure and to the measures on natural disasters that have affected various parts of our country over the last few years. To the next phase of the fiscal law 2018 has been postponed, also because of the tighter times available compared to the fiscal law, a series of proposals (presented also in bipartisan way) that will be further deepened in the next few days: the theme of the pension, first of all, for which it has been intended to respect the path of confrontation started last Monday and consider that on the matter a technical table has been opened between the government and the social forces; the topic of the new structure of the tax agencies, with particular regard to the governance and the organization of the staff; the topic of deductibility, within the wider fiscal and health issue, of the contributions of the autonomous workers for the health care managed from bilateral agencies; the question of the LSU in some local authorities and - I want to mention it with a particular emphasis - the valorization and the support of the activity of the caregivers. They are central issues, not divisive and mature in terms of shared political priority, but not yet defined in part at the legislative level, so much so that they can be included in this measure, but certainly more feasible, even for the time available, in the second part of the maneuver within the budget law. Without going into the detail of the article (for the non-modified parties, the report I have produced in the Commission), I will briefly focus on eight major amendments that have been adopted, seeking to aggregate them on major issues. In particular, with regard to tax matters, Article 1 on the extension of the simplified definition of loads has been the subject of numerous corrective measures. The deadline for payment of the instalments, which expired in July and September 2017, relating to the so-called facilitated definition 2016, was postponed to 7 December 2017 (compared to the date initially set at 30 November), which is the only date compatible with the budgetary balances and revenue management within the year 2017. At the same time, provision was made for an extension to the month of July 2018 of the deadline for paying the April 2018 instalment. It has then been entirely rewritten the discipline relative to the so-called scraping bis of the folders, having as object the cargos entrusted to the agents of the collection, limited from 1 January to 30 September 2017, including also the debts relative to cargos entrusted from 2000 to 2016, for which it has not been demanded or not allowed the breaking ex decree-law n. 193 of 2016. Now reopening this opportunity for us means allowing other companies and taxpayers to have access to the fundamental possibility of closing down slopes with taxes and pensions, which are only and above all the effect of the crisis of the last ten years, a burden that prevents those companies from surviving and, if not, a full restart of economic activity. It was then increased by €8.9 million in 2018... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u7	Excuse me, Senator Lai, I'm interrupting. Colleagues, I ask the senators behind Senator Lai to try to lower the tone of his voice, because you don't understand anything. On my right, too, please, I ask you to be quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u8	Thank you, President. Approximately €9 million was increased in 2018, €100 in 2019 and €24 in 2020 to meet the Fund's indisputable needs for structural economic policy interventions. Similarly to what is foreseen for the facilitated definition of local taxes collected by role, the time limits for territorial authorities to decide the facilitated definition of payment orders related to revenue also tax, notified by 16 October 2017, which is the date of issue of the decree under consideration. In order to ensure the integrity of the public budgets and revenues of the local authorities, it has been foreseen that the functions and activities of support and preparatory to the establishment and collection of the revenues of the local authorities and the companies involved in them that often externalize, giving them in direct trust to recovery companies and credits, are entrusted to qualified persons registered in the appropriate register. Among the aims to be exclusively dedicated, from 1 January 2018, the proceeds of the building licences and the sanctions provided for in the Single Act on construction, according to the provisions of the 2017 Budget Law, are included - this is a novelty - also the design costs for public works. Finally, again on the fiscal issue, the spentometer has been revised and a number of measures have been introduced to simplify its discipline, providing in particular, first, for the non-applicability of the sanctions in respect of communications made in the first half of 2017, given the experimental nature of the new obligations, provided that the exact data are transmitted by 28 February 2018; second, the possibility that, instead of the data of the invoices issued received in relation to the transactions relevant for VAT purposes of less than 300 euros, these can be carried out retroactively and thus the data can be transmitted in a summary document; thirdly, the exemption for public administrations from the obligation to transmit the data of the invoices issued to the final consumers. In Article 4, on tax incentives for audiovisual advertising, the audience of the beneficiaries of the tax credit for incremental advertising investments in the press and local broadcasters was extended. On the one hand, non-commercial activities of non-commercial entities have been included on this subject, while commercial activities have already been introduced. It is an opening to the theme of the third sector, of the whole area of volunteering and associationism. On the other hand - and this is also an element of innovation - investment can also cover on-line printing, which is now an important part of the communication and information system. Always with regard to the tax issue, I make the last two reports. We have intervened with regard to the implementation of the new tax provisions contained in the Code of the third sector, establishing that for the year 2017 there are preferential provisions in force before, thus introducing the new provisions from 1 January. And, therefore, they are deductible from the total income of the lender, within the limit of 10% of the total income declared and in any case up to a maximum of 70,000 euros per year, the payments made to the Onlus. Finally, following the abolition of Equitalia, supervision, also in relation to the guarantee of transparency, impartiality and fairness in the application of the rules, especially for the relationship with taxpayers, is carried out by the Ministry of Economy and Finance rather than by the Revenue Agency, which now incorporates what is the transformation of Equitalia. I have little to say about the second major issue - I am sure it will be dealt with in the debate - which concerns natural disasters. In this context, measures have been approved to help resolve many of the still open issues related to the disasters that involved L'Aquila, Emilia-Romagna, Lombardy, Veneto in 2012 and the Regions of Central Italy in 2016. Finally, the rule concerning the flood of Livorno is corrected. In this way, all the inhabitants involved are treated uniformly. Moreover, a large and full-bodied legislation is introduced concerning the island of Ischia, a place dear to us that has been hit by an earthquake that has caused a very serious indirect economic damage to the entire economy of the territory. To these measures, given the particular gravity, a state financial contribution to the Region of Sardinia has been added, as a contribution to the granting of compensation in favour of agropastoral holdings that have been seriously damaged by the drought events recorded in 2017. I remember that this is about 80% of the entire national sector. With regard to companies, I would like to mention three interventions. Firstly, the confidence sector has been financially strengthened. The increase in the provision of the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises can also be supplemented by the intervention of Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA. This is an initiative that greatly increases the financial potential of the trusts and goes in the direction of supporting, through this intervention, the business world. Moreover, the audience of those entitled to participate in the capital is expanded and the resources already allocated to Piedmont are used to grant an extraordinary contribution to the Region of 35 million euros for 2017 and 5 million euros for 2018, in order to guarantee the continuity of the essential services of the road and iron transport system and thus to cope with the financial situation of the company GTT SpA. Finally, with an intervention with a clear environmental flavor, investments in district heating are encouraged. This is a rule intended to extend the production opportunities of white certificates and increase their competitiveness in a market where only a few could produce them. The fourth area I would like to mention is health, and I would like to focus on three issues. Firstly, there is the introduction of an experimental detachability regime for food for special medical purposes for two years. These foods are indispensable in some diseases of malabsorption for which, given the extension and diffusion in Italian society, we consider it important to experiment with this intervention, helping those who suffer through the possibility of deduction. Secondly, in addition to the initial strategic objectives in the text, among which I remember the adrotherapy (an important therapy in the area of the fight against cancer), there is an intervention on neurosciences and neurorehabilitation, always with the involvement of national excellences. Finally, with regard to the health sector, I would like to point out that just yesterday evening the Commission approved the Government's amendment on the regulation of the use of cannabis for therapeutic purposes. This is an amendment that has been widely extended by the debate developed in the Commission, which has wanted to integrate some opportunities, so as to make it more complete from the point of view of needs in the national territory, with the decisive contribution of many political groups of majority and opposition present in Parliament. I would also like to mention a speech which concerns students - or their families - born as a parliamentary initiative on the issue of the deduction of rentals for university students. This may appear to be a minor norm, while, in fact, it allows to change an opportunity that, up to this moment, has seen limited conditions by families whose children are university students out of office. Today, the current rule provides for the possibility to deduct the rent for those living over 100 kilometres away from the university, but only if they reside in another province. The amendment introduced in the text extends the rule, reducing the distance for those living in mountain and disadvantaged areas to 50 kilometres - and I thank the proposer of the text - and eliminates, through the intervention of the Commission, the incomprehensible provincial border, thus considering the 100 km of distance universal in all other cases. This extends the audience in an important way. This is an intervention that will last for the next two years, experimentally, and for which the Parliament of the next legislature will have to decide on continuity, in favour of a fundamental right, part of the right to study. Same node: we intervene on two issues of close topicality. Firstly, by means of an amendment signed by several political groups (initially several amendments have been tabled in this area), we believe that the question of the exit of children under 14 years of age from school has been resolved following a recent judgment of the Court of Cassation. In this respect, it is expected that those exercising parental responsibility may authorise school institutions to allow children to leave school premises autonomously, as well as to self-employedly take advantage of the school transport service operated by the local authorities - this was an alert that had been made to us by the other branch of Parliament - by means of a discharge which exempts school staff and bodies from any liability related to the fulfilment of supervisory obligations. The second very topical issue, which we intend to resolve with this measure, is the 28-day billing practice, which appeared at first as a given or minor element, but which was then increasingly considered sensitive to consumers. This practice has been increasingly adopted in recent years by mobile and TV operators and is also likely to spread, with a sometimes misleading mechanism towards citizens. In this respect, a provision has been introduced which, even in line with the Authority's subsequent guidelines, provides for the return of billing on a monthly basis (or multiples of the month) with the sole exclusion, in the context of mobile telephony, of temporary promotional offers. A transitional period of four months has been foreseen for operators to adapt to the new provisions. This rule - I stress this, because it is a figure proposed by some Groups - does not include public services, such as water, gas and electricity, because consumer services, the cost of which is indifferent to the billing period. In this legislation, however, it was intended to incorporate a regulation on fibre optic services provided to citizens, introducing the obligation to notify the consumer if the service offered provides for the arrival of fibre to the home or only until the first distribution plant. Less visible, but no less current, are two further interventions that I would like to mention. The first is relative to the security of the bridges on the Po, which requires extraordinary and ordinary maintenance necessary to guarantee the transit of the means between the two banks of the river in the state roads - the only ones confirmed and guaranteed are those highways - in the absence of which the country risks to remain divided in two, in a nerve point for the communications and the economy of the Country. Secondly, resources are allocated to the Lombardy Region for activities related to the candidacy of Milan as the seat of the European Agency for Medicinal Products (EMA). I am making three final reports to the House, starting to conclude. As regards the environment, I would like to point out, in addition to the rule that allows the production of white certificates to be extended, a parliamentary initiative rule approved by the Commission, which I consider to be innovative. As of 2018, a share of 5 per thousand of the IRPEF tax may also be allocated to support the managing bodies of the protected areas. This extends, for the first time, to the environment, what has been planned so far for the social sector, first, and for the cultural sector, then, in this legislature, and which is having a remarkable and important response from the citizens. Expanding the theme on the environmental theme makes it possible to make that theme not only sensitive to citizens but also sustainable for those are the main institutions in the environmental sector of the country. I quote the rules on transport as a penalty. Here there are two strands on which we have worked: the theme of the prevention of corruptive phenomena and that of safety. With regard to the first area, after having been established by the Procurement Code, the management, operation and implementation of the new functionalities of the National database of economic operators by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, with a financing of 1.5 million euros from 2018: an intervention, as I said, provided by the Procurement Code, necessary to enhance the prevention of corruptive phenomena. On the safety front, two interventions are indicated: a measure on flight safety related to the operational condition of the controller system and the introduction - also called for in Parliament and extended through cooperation with the Government - of a complete standard, and of its financing, to set up the instruments necessary to monitor rail and maritime safety. There are, then, additional provisions that I quote for arguments: it is important to intervene, even in the face of recent events, to ensure the maintenance of the conditions of air continuity with Sardinia, which may fail as a result of the transfer to other entities of Alitalia. It has already happened that, with the conventions in place, in case of continuation Alitalia has renounced to some routes, and it is important that this does not happen except in a context controlled from the Ministry of Infrastructures and the transports. I am still quoting a measure in favour of the future young entrepreneurs of the Mezzogiorno, because with "Resto al Sud" we had foreseen that we could have access to this opportunity until the end of the thirty-five years, but the longer times of the signing of the convention and the opening of the ban suggested to us to extend this possibility to those who had completed, at the date of approval of the norm, the thirty-fifth year of age, maintaining this term; therefore allowing also those who have exceeded that age - but had the requirements at that time - to be able to access "Resto al Sud". We have solved here the issue of operation with respect to the support and technical activity of Invitalia. I would also like to mention two other rules which I particularly care about in the debate and also the fact that they are frequently proposed rules, which have finally come to an end. We have dealt with the issue of resident Italian workers who have had to emigrate and who have worked continuously outside our country and who have amounts of income regularly produced abroad that can be used abroad but not in Italy. In relation to these sums, for Italian immigrants who have regularly produced their income abroad, we have considered it appropriate to accept a proposal that allows the return of the above to be able to buy houses in our country, in order to return, as do all immigrants or most Italian immigrants, through the payment of three percent - we are talking about sums on which taxes have already been paid at the place where they were produced - the value of the activity and the stock at 31 December 2016. Another long-standing problem solved is that of civilian personnel from foreign military bases or NATO, which must be relocated, for a rule of our country, to public administrations. There are three territories that have suffered a decrease in the presence of these bases, and therefore the dismissal of civil personnel. Through the rule we allow the financing of the integration fund and we start the process of relocation to the public administrations, which is not a novelty but is a necessary act: the rule had to be refinanced for the passage. I regret that, on the same subject, it remains not addressed - but I am sure that we will be able to solve it and I say it with personal regret because it was dear to me - the issue of environmental and health controls on military polygons, as was rightly asked in the wake of the investigation of depleted uranium by the appropriate Commission. Let us leave this issue to the next steps, also trusting that it is a sensitive issue and on which we must therefore intervene, also because several causes have generated the state's payment of compensation to the military who have been damaged or even died because of activities related to military activity. We think that preventing all this through means of environmental and military control and a constant verification procedure of the defence system - on which I know that there is the availability and agreement of the Defense and there must be the collaboration of the Ministry of the Environment - would help to prevent the next victims that - I am convinced - we have the moral duty to avoid. Finally, I left last a point on which I was urged and on which all the political groups wanted to speak. I keep it last because it was also the subject of the final part, the night part, of yesterday's work. This is the topic of professionals. As I said, we have introduced enlargement to non-orderist professionals of access to the capital of Confififi, with its advantages, but above all we have introduced the principle of fair compensation for professionals. I would like to pay tribute to the President of the Commission, Senator Tonini, for this rule was rightly and correctly expounded, for the accounting law, from the Government's draft budget law. It was not possible for it to be accepted and approved, and the President was right to put it out of the way. But equally positively, with its consent and support as well as with the support of the Government, we have reintroduced it in the tax decree to our examination where it could be introduced, discussed and then approved. We felt that the rule was mature in the version presented by the Government and hesitated also by the House and the debate these days showed how necessary it was, not only mature. If we had a little more time - and I say this to some of our colleagues who have proposed amendments that would have been important - perhaps we could have improved the rule by specifying some legislative references that we believe can be regulated by the Ministry of Justice. The extension of this principle to other professionals was ripe and necessary. For this reason, the rule introduced, which initially allowed to avoid vexation clauses in the relationships between lawyers and the financial system, i.e. banks and insurances, or large and medium-sized enterprises, is extended to all professionals, whether or not ordering. Moreover, we have understood it useful, and I would add, that in addition to the extension to other professionals, a reminder was inserted which is in principle, although it is alive and inherent in our Constitution, to the use of fair compensation by public administrations. This is not a constraint, but a reminder of the quality of civil relations and respect for work when it is made, in particular, within the public system of our country. This rule, although not binding on the economic level, becomes valid starting from the conversion of this decree-law, and therefore commits the public administrations to take particular account of it. In conclusion, I think that the tax decree linked to the maneuver ends its path in this House and starts the process of maneuvering more generally. It is a decree that has improved and increased the initial objectives and content thanks to an active and very important debate in the Commission. I am convinced that Parliament, with its debate, will be able to conform that what we have integrated was expected and was useful. I am convinced that Parliament, when debating this measure, will be able to highlight the positive elements that help the economic system, but also help the social cohesion of the country. I would like to end by thanking Mr Morando and thanking Mr Finocchiaro, all the Members of the Commission and his President. In particular, I would like to thank the PD Holding Company in particular, which has been very close to me in this work, and all the Commission staff and - including those of our Group - because the work carried out was complex and keeping it in the right track required attention and support from everyone and shared objectives. This has happened and so I really thank them all. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bencini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u9	I declare that two questions have been referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Mandelli to comment on the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 148 of 16 October 2017 is yet another example of the abuse of this instrument which is added to a series of urgent measures, sometimes totally lacking the constitutional presuppositions of extraordinary necessity and urgency. The decree in question consists of 20 articles which regulate diverse thematic areas. The various subjects dealt with in the decree in question concern: the extension of the simplified definition of loads; the suspension of the deadlines for the fulfilment of tax obligations in the territories affected by natural disasters; the extension of the split payment to all companies controlled by the public administration; tax incentives for advertising and audiovisual investments; the partial sterilization of the increase in VAT rates for 2018; urgent provisions on international missions and provisions on staff of the Armed Forces; monitoring of measures for the protection of pensions and financing of the employment fund; the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises; the anticipation of the resources of the solidarity fund of the European Union; the Business Fund; the Alitalia transfer procedure; rules on corporate transparency; rules on the revision of the discipline of the golden power; the increase of the programme contract for the Italian railway network; provisions for the Italian Red Cross; the financing of the environmental rehabilitation and urban regeneration of the Bagnoli-Coroglio district and the Municipality of Matera; the financing of specific objectives related to the research, assistance and care activities related to the improvement of the provision of the essential levels of financial aid; the liberalization of rights in relation to the financial provisions relating to the rights under which have been granted; In addition to these matters, others have been added during the examination of the budget Commission, which makes the text even more uneven in content. The verification of the criterion of homogeneity is one of the fundamental pillars on which the Constitutional Court has always founded the argumentative paths linked to the presence or absence of respect for the indispensable requirements of extraordinary necessity and urgency. It should be recalled that by judgment No 22 of 2012 the Constitutional Court considered the decree-law to be unlawful if its content does not respect the constraint of homogeneity. The decree-law is undoubtedly flawed by constitutional illegitimacy, as it contains provisions without formal connection with the themes recalled by the epigraph of the decree and by the same preamble. The heterogeneity of the subjects in a decree-law results in an improper use of the decree of urgency and a depletion of the legislative competence proper to the Chambers, resulting in a deterioration of the role of Parliament and the affirmation of an imbalance of powers within the institutional bodies in favour of the Government, which makes its own the regulatory power. In fact, there is talk of measures in the financial field and for indisputable needs, with provisions for the financing of a set of areas which have nothing in common with each other and which are more foreshadowed as rain financing for political purposes than as structural measures. It should also be stressed that the customary contra legem of the legislator to issue decrees-laws contrary to judgments of the Court weakens the credibility of the legislative bodies, their components and the value and strength of the laws and the Constitution. The inclusion of certain provisions in the decree-law appears pretentious, since they could have been included in the next budget law in itinere, without limiting or affecting its objectives. In particular, Articles 1 to 5, with regard to heterogeneity, although they concern tax-related provisions, deal with different issues - as I said a few moments ago - between them. Article 1 refers to the extension of the simplified definition of loads, an important subject and supported by Forza Italia through its own independent bill, assigned to the 6th Commission of which the examination has never begun. It has suffered many upheavals that have made it cumbersome, difficult to understand and, most likely, it will not solve the problems that those who are in serious or momentary financial difficulties wanted to be faced. On the contrary, it is a matter which required an appropriate deepening and not the urgent adoption of rules which are certainly ineffective. Article 3 also extends the split payment mechanism to national, regional and local economic public authorities, including special companies and public service companies, participating foundations and listed companies included in the FTSE MIB index. This last forecast will end up taking away liquidity from companies, cutting their resources, and will achieve the opposite objective of the government's economic policy to relaunch investment and growth; Article 5 provides for the partial sterilization of increases in VAT rates planned for 2018. In addition to the lack of constitutional requirements it is clearly illogical because it "sterilizes" 804 million euros, leaving another 14,932 million increases still pending on the tax on consumption. "Serializes" also 304 million for 2019, leaving in force increases of VAT for 18,547 million euros. Article 8 increases the Social Fund for Employment and Training by EUR 200 million for 2017, and continues for the following years. Nor is there adequate justification for its inclusion in an emergency measure in this provision. Article 11 brings an increase to the Sustainable Growth Fund for 2018 created by a decree-law of 2012. Now, suddenly, there is a reserve of 300 million for this Fund without having any clear indication of whether it can be used because, moreover, the possible use of the funds of this Fund, in the aid of large firms in difficulty, must pass the judgment of the European Commission in order to avoid the possible opening of infringement procedures for State aid. Article 12 refers to the postponement to 30 April 2018 of the deadline for the completion of the procedures for the disposal of Alitalia's business complexes. It is also unusual for this issue to find a solution, which will certainly not be final, in a measure of necessity and urgency. Article 13 authorizes the expenditure of 420 million euros for the year 2017 for the financing of the program contract, part investments 2017-2021, between the Ministry of Infrastructure and the transports and the Italian railway network company. This rule, too, of a pre-eminent ordinary nature, as it amends the Single Text of the provisions on financial intermediation, could and should have found an appropriate legislative seat, because it is certainly not the instrument of the decree-law that is most appropriate to modify the discipline contained in the single text. Even the provisions of Article 14, which could be described as "closing the doors of the stable after the oxen have escaped," introduce changes to our order of discipline of the so-called golden power or the power of public verification on the control of private companies. It is a rule that, even if deemed necessary, there is no imminent justification for the urgency assigned to them. Article 17 contains, once again, provisions for the financing of reclamation and urban regeneration of the Bagnoli-Coroglio area and the Municipality of Matera. Being an intervention repeatedly repeated and repeatedly unsolving, it is by its very nature not urgent. Article 18 deals with the financing of assistance levels of EUR 21.5 million, i.e. for a sum which could have been found in the State budget under current legislation without having to adopt a specific article in a decree-law. Article 19, which concerns the transposition of a European directive on copyright, is included here, but it is clear that there were more suitable sites, such as European law. A provision which, moreover, by going to modify the model of the management of the copyrights (so far monopoly of SIAE), turns out itself a provision of an orderly nature, totally inadequate in the seat of a decree-law. The weakness of the measure, in our view, is in proposing legislative measures aimed at solving problems that should have been resolved for some time. In practice, the urgent decree seems to remedy a lack of prior and accurate analysis of a problem. The absence of verification and control of how a critical situation evolves determines, finally, obligatory, the necessity on the part of the Government to have to intervene again, suddenly and urgently, in order to avoid that the situation worse or continues to represent a problem for the Country. However, facing a situation in this way, it is unlikely that a critical situation will find stability, possibly degenerating in chronicity. In conclusion, the justification of the constitutional requirements does not even occur in the complicated intrigue of paragraphs, letters and paragraphs of Article 20, which contains the provisions for the use of resources and the financial coverage of the rules included in the decree-law. For this reason, we ask the Senate Assembly to decide in the sense that it does not proceed to the examination of bill No 2942. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u11	We greet the young people of the Institute of Higher Education (Luigi Einaudi) in Rome, accompanied by their professors. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u12	He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u13	Madam President, we take the floor for the umpteenth time to denounce issues of unconstitutionality, first and foremost, and above all the abuse of the use of the decree-law. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u14	A little silence, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u15	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Here, too, as in other hypotheses that have followed in the course of this parliamentary term, we are examining a decree-law which contains a totally uneven subject matter and without even the requirements of necessity and urgency. We are faced, ladies and gentlemen, with the degeneration of a parliamentary system and there is clearly an institutional imbalance between Parliament and the Government, which, among other things, limits and reduces the ability and strength of the opposition to analyse and discuss a measure, and to make proposals, and thus to exercise its primary function, namely to control the political work of the majority. It is not necessary to remind colleagues, who certainly have a knowledge of the constitutional apparatus, that legislative power belongs to the Chambers, not to the Government: the Chambers must legislate, the Government must carry out, which is no longer happening. It is useless to recall here the judgments of the Constitutional Court, such as No 171 of 2007, which we are always quoting, because it now seems almost null, since these decree-laws are still being enacted and repeated. A great problem of this decree-law concerns above all the homogeneity of the matter, even though provided for by law: within a decree-law, in fact, it is not possible to insert a dishomogeneous series - indeed, almost a pile - of various subjects. For example, just to name a few, let's look at the three titles of the decree-law: the first concerns tax matters; the second is in the area of international missions, police and military forces; the third is in the field of funds for indifferent needs (and the generality of the diction is already evident). These are really omnibus provisions, ranging in various areas, from employment to development, from companies to corporate restructuring, to the environment and culture. As was also apparent yesterday evening during the debate in the Budget Committee, there are then rules of a clearly orderly nature. As colleagues are well aware, matters of an orderly nature cannot be dealt with within a decree-law, which - we repeat - has immediate effect, which can fail if it is not converted. We cannot therefore introduce rules that modify our legal order, and the judicial system itself, in the short space of time in which the decree-law takes effect immediately. Articles 13 and 14, for example, have been included in the Commission's examination and constitute an entire bill on the reform of tax agencies, so we are talking about a rule exactly, perfectly and structurally legal. [[Brusio.]] Madam President, I would ask for a minimum of silence from this House, otherwise it is also difficult to speak. I would ask for a moment of silence in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u16	Colleagues, Senator Stefani is right, I asked you earlier: please, a little respect for those who are speaking. Excuse me on behalf of everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u17	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Thank you, Mr President, but nothing has changed. The unconstitutionality of some rules is clear; among other things, some provide for measures that are simply used to make payments. For example: the part of Article 1 which extends the legislation on compulsory general insurance and the pension system to staff from Equitalia. In this case, the staff found themselves hired by the revenue agency's collection agency without even having carried out a public competition, clearly violating Article 97 of the Constitution. We are also talking about another subject which is really difficult and thorny: the split payment, which has already entered into force and which is further expanded in this regulation. It creates a clear inequality and uneven treatment between citizens. The split payment certainly provides a liquidity guarantee for the State. The State immediately collects VAT, but creates liquidity problems. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u18	Colleagues, I really ask you to be quiet. You don't understand anything. I'm having a hard time listening, too. Please go out and discuss or strongly decrease the level of your voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u19	President, they are probably all already in the election campaign. As I said, there is a liquidity reserve for the state, while there is a liquidity problem for companies and professionals. It goes without saying that this rule accentuates an inequality between those who work (customers and professionals) with public administrations and those who, on the other hand, work in the private sector. Gentlemen, it is easy: in the private sector, VAT compensation is made and there are ways in which you can come back in some way and, instead, with this system you are faced with a liquidity problem that must also be addressed. Let us turn to another subject, on which there are other aspects of unconstitutionality compared to the principle adopted. I am referring to confidential treatment, which continues to be reserved for exodus. Article 8, which reprograms the money allocated for exodus by reducing the number of requests for access to the eighth safeguard, runs counter to the principles of social law and underlying our Constitutional Charter. We have another element that violates Article 41 of the Constitution, in our opinion: for the umpteenth time the end of the State intervention in the management of Alitalia is postponed through the extraordinary administration procedure. Gentlemen, Article 41 recognises the freedom of private economic initiative. Here, however, from 2008 to today the state, recognizing this crisis condition of the flag society, has had a very strong interference on many occasions elargando from 2008 to 2014 a sum of 4.1 billion euros, not to say the rest. We are faced with a moment of great national crisis. These resources have been earmarked for the recovery of Alitalia, but to continue to devote additional public resources, diverting them, among other things, from other interventions aimed at getting our country out of the crisis, certainly creates some doubts about the observance by this measure of some constitutional principles. Finally, we point out that the Government's practices are in charge of the use of the decree of urgency which merely denotes the extreme weakness of this Executive. The aim for which the decree of urgency or the vote of confidence is used is only to avoid the ordinary parliamentary path for a bill. This majority has always had difficulty in carrying out a draft law following the ordinary path for the difficulty of having consensus not only outside this House, but above all within it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u20	Since no one intends to intervene in this debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Verification of the CANDIANI quorum (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on draft law No 2942 PRESIDENT. I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Mandelli and other Senators (QP1) and Senator Comaroli and other Senators (QP2). It's not approved. Senator Broglia renounces his intervention. Senator Amidei is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so. AMIDEI (Mist). Madam President, I would ask you to be able to speak later because I was not informed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In fact, Senator Amidei should intervene now, but since it was not communicated to you, I will give you the power to intervene later. She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u21	Madam President, I am speaking on the last part of Senator Lai's report, namely the acquisition of a very important piece of the original text... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u22	Colleagues, you're unruly today. Let's try to get colleagues to talk. If you have to leave the Chamber, do so in silence. Let's wait a minute, Senator Parente, because I see that there are several senators coming out, so let's try to listen. Please, Senator Parente.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u23	Madam President, I am speaking on the last subject that the rapporteur put in this House, which is a fundamental acquisition of this tax decree-law: I am referring to the fair compensation of professionals. The protection of self-employment, including that of professionals, has been growing in this legislature. We have approved for the first time in the history of the Republic a bill covering all self-employment, from collaborators to professionals, and we have increased protection for this world, the whole world of self-employment. I would remind you that we have waged a battle in this Parliament, including the majority of the government, to make the coverage of the integration fund for collaborations, the Dis-Coll, stable. Today, in the tax decree-law, we arrive at the fair compensation of the professionals. For months in the Senate, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we have been dealing with this issue and I am rapporteur for a measure on it. The rules we are approving today concern the need for fair compensation for professionals, starting with lawyers. He reminded Senator Lai that the rapporteur's amendment already transposes a law from the other branch of Parliament. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u24	Rightly, Senator Parente stopped, because she can't even feel herself. Colleagues, I really do not understand today why there is this fibrillation: there is ferment, but we will have to stop, out of respect for colleagues. Please get out of the Chamber if you want to discuss this with each other.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u25	Madam President, yet this is a matter of interest; all this does not give credit for the commitment that has been made in the Commission until tonight. All the Groups, in fact, committed themselves, as Senator Lai recalled, to reach the approval of this topic.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u26	They probably know him, so now they can go get coffee. Please, Senator, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u27	Parent (PD). The rules we are about to pass are about the need for fair compensation for professionals, starting with lawyers. The other branch of Parliament has adopted an ad hoc law for the fair compensation of lawyers and the rapporteur's amendment transposes that law. During the debate, as was mentioned earlier in this House, the Commission was asked to extend this rule to all professionals and, above all, to the world of self-employment; in fact, the amendment in question refers to Law No 81 of 2017 on self-employment. Remember that this rule is based on the concept of fair compensation compared to a contractual imbalance with strong clients, as Senator Lai recalled: large companies, banking companies, insurance. Last night, indeed tonight, in extremis, also passed the request, important, to establish a principle towards public administration. This is especially important for professionals (from lawyers to architects and engineers), but it is also fundamental for the whole world of non-orderists, whose work, remember, is on the increase in Italy. In the absence of a ban on vexatory clauses and a principle of justice for a fair payment for the performance of a profession, there are also many cases of public administration notices, as in the case - I quote an example for all because it is the last of which I have news - of the ban on archaeologists, who have to work for five euros per hour. This rule was therefore absolutely necessary. Senator Lai has very well remembered that there are also issues to be adjusted in this standard, starting from the more precise reference to parameters which are considered a fair compensation; this can be regulated by specific decrees of the competent ministries. We who have been dealing with these issues for months in the Commission have listened to the different worlds, from the representatives of the orders, to the non-orderist professionals; we receive many letters and we are aware of so many experiences, so we know that this rule was necessary. We hope, also in relation to the time of the legislature, that we will be able to intervene again on this subject and resume the law that we are discussing in the Commission, in order to establish an even more specific framework for these issues. We felt that this was also a necessity in the tax decree, because we looked above all at the young professionals, both those enrolled in the orders, and those not ordered, and, in particular, to the young women. In fact, if there is, as we know, a wage differential in the world of employees, there is perhaps even more in the world of professions. This is therefore a rule of great justice and great equity, which we considered necessary to include in the tax decree-law, although with all the shortcomings that there are that, as has been said, can be filled by more precise references and implementing decrees. I would also like to address two other issues. The first is the issue of caregivers, mentioned by Senator Lai, who is not present in the tax decree-law. This issue will be dealt with very strongly, at least by some of us who are working on it in the Commission. Here too there is a bipartisan contribution, because there are proposals from other parliamentary groups too. The issue of caregivers will be dealt with more forcefully, and we hope - and they will do all they can to get it approved - that a fund will be set up for this fundamental issue. In fact, we have a lot of people in difficulty, especially women, who devote themselves for a lifetime to families with disabilities and therefore we need an intervention on this issue. As far as pension matters are concerned, I myself had tabled an amendment to the Decree-Law to re-use the unspent funds of the Social EPA. This matter will also be dealt with strongly in the budget law. As we know, negotiations are under way between the Government and trade unions; we will have to address, in addition to the re-use of the unspent funds of the Social EPA, the issue of extending the 2019 Social EPA, and I have personally tabled an amendment to the Budget Act on the issue of extending these measures to all unemployed people, then there is the subject of heavy work, which is facing the table between union and government. In a few hours, after the tax decree-law, we will resume and address these issues in the examination of the budget law. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u29	Senator, I apologize for blowing your shift.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u30	Madam President, I thank you for giving me the floor, because we are facing an important decree-law and we are all very busy. I will spend a few words on a subject that apparently does not seem relevant and instead, unfortunately, it has entered heavily into this decree-law. I am referring to Article 2, which deals with taxation related to earthquakes. It is a very important issue, on which we have worked a lot in this end of the legislature, and since last year. Unfortunately, as I said a few moments ago, this issue concerns earthquakes, a phenomenon that involves the whole of our peninsula and we realized how, over time, these measures should be modulated according to what we then discover on the ground. In particular, I refer to the events of the earthquake of 2016, which still involves four Regions: Lazio, Umbria, Marche and Abruzzo. I have tried to pay particular attention to the aspect of indirect damage, on which we have greatly pressed the majority and the government. We have in fact realized, over time, that there is an obvious and unfortunately very serious structural and social damage caused by the various earthquakes, but then there is a so-called indirect damage, which we have discovered very heavily especially with the earthquake mentioned. It was in fact an earthquake of very widespread proportions, which involved a very vast area of our Italy, creating an effect that I do not know if it is possible to define domino, but that was however very important on the receptive activities. I repeat: nothing to do with direct damage, which has been a real tragedy for our fellow citizens, but this phenomenon has also occurred and has occurred with very heavy effects. Thus, even cities that are not at all affected by collapses or similar damage have suffered damage. In the examination of this tax decree, I have focused in particular on one aspect, that I would like to remain in the proceedings and that I have already explained in the Commission and I thank the Deputy Minister, who has paid close attention to this issue. I remember that some receptive activities gave availability for what we initially called social hospitality. In fact, the need was quite limited, for example in my city, in Spoleto, the need was limited to 3 or 4 structures of over 40-50 existing. In the panorama of the four regions, the percentage of the activities that have made available their structures for what - I repeat - initially we called social hospitality is fortunately quite small and I say "luckily" because the need was limited to some citizens or operators at the time of the emergency. Well, what happened and where did my speech focus? I simply asked that the famous 25% decrease in turnover should not include income from social hospitality. Since those structures which, having hosted firefighters, carabinieri or displaced citizens from their homes, have seen the threshold of 25% of their revenue no longer have access to the benefits of the so-called free zone, we simply asked that that threshold be rightly considered, but net of these revenues. I would like to remain with the record that this intervention has been made and that the Deputy Minister has taken this matter seriously. I would therefore like to thank both the rapporteur and the Deputy Minister for what we can do in the continuation of our work in this House. [[Applause from Senator Cappelletti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u31	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u32	Madam President, I am speaking mainly on one of the aspects of fair compensation, because I know him well, since in my previous life experience, before entering the Senate, I have been practicing my free profession as an engineer for twenty-four years and I have also been an adviser to the Order of Engineers. The issue of fair compensation, which concerns the professions, in particular the technical professions, has become very topical, also in the light of a recent decision of the Council of State which, with regard to the specific case of an engineer, has ruled, in essence, that it is possible to work to make a regulatory plan and to be paid only one euro. Here a strange short circuit is created, because in the judgment cited it is assumed that the economic utility is inherent in the same fact of performing the performance. Now, when we talk about fair compensation, therefore, we are not referring to the reinstatement of the tariff minima (which, from a certain point of view, have been exceeded because we want to live in a free market regime), but the free market regime cannot get to the point of demolishing the compensation against a performance. The Council of State, in that judgment, has created a serious problem, which we absolutely must address. The concept of fair compensation for all the ordering professions, which was intended to be part of the norm, is a fair concept; it must then be declined, because it is necessary to ensure that these concepts are implemented. I repeat that the problem is not to re-introduce the minimum tariff, as provided for in the draft law at the first signature of Senator Sacconi, but to evaluate the reality. When it comes to professional technical services, we know that they are subject to competition, as it is right that they are and as is also provided for in the public contract code. These races have produced trusts with lowers, as it is right that both, lowers that vary on average, according to the statistics we can read, between a maximum value of 41 percent and values that stand around 26-27 percent. So on the old rates - which are now tabelles because we've changed the way we call them - there are discounts that can usefully be applied. To introduce the concept of fair compensation - which will then be the task of Parliament and the government to decline - means to avoid what the Council of State has said that can be done, because if politics thought that the whole system of liberal professions could be based on the concept that economic compensation is separated from payment, then we would be reduced badly: it would mean that the Council of State introduced the principle that the concept of free profession can be demolished. This can be a political choice, even if I think it is completely irresponsible, because that is not the way to solve the problems, but we must focus on the things we have said. If we ask that the whole system of public works - I am talking about this specific case, which concerns the technical professions - be based on the quality of the design, we cannot have that quality if there is no payment of that performance, but in the specific case concerning the Town Council's regulatory plan of Cosenza the Council of State said that it can be drawn up for one euro. The concept of fair compensation has rightly been reinserted, but it must have a consistent declination: it is not that you have a fair compensation only when there are agreements, as reported in the code regarding the legal professions. We need to find a system, which satisfies the need to be able to work and to make a good service to the public administration, with the need to work to earn and to live. This means not overpaying the technical professions, a project or any other performance, but finding a fair balance that in this case serves to achieve a result consistent with the objective of doing your job well. If so many Italian citizens try to work in the free profession (and there are so many freelancers in our country) deciding to be on the market - because a freelancer is on the market every day, to try to find a way to live, and it is right that it is so because he chose to be on the free market - you cannot demolish all this, in this way. Therefore, I hope that the Government will intervene on this issue - but it will probably be up to the next Government and the next Parliament - by ensuring that the dignity of all professionals in Italy is respected, with a view to doing their job well and rendering a service well done to the public administration. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u33	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u34	Madam President, this could have been an excellent opportunity to conclude the legislature and, through the tax system, to push the economy of our country, to lighten bureaucracy for businesses, to help work and to give families the opportunity to be helped. In particular, I will refer to the earthquake that fell on the island of Ischia last summer. We have asked - and I know that the request has been accepted - for the suspension of the deadlines for the fulfilment of tax and contribution obligations, precisely in support of the resident populations and the resumption of the productive activities affected by the earthquake. It is essential that the State in these cases makes itself felt in a robust way, that it makes itself felt on the social front. We have called for adequate resources to start and ensure reconstruction in the municipalities of the island of Ischia that have been affected by the earthquake and therefore also fiscal measures in order to promote the productive recovery of the tourism sector, which is fundamental for that area, and then, of course, services related to tourism, public establishments and commerce. Moreover, since we are talking about the tax system, there has been something in Italy for years that we believe is absolutely correct: the so-called IRPEF deposit, which is to be paid at the same time as the taxes of the year are being paid. First of all, we believe that, in a gradual way, this advance must be abolished, but if we do not want to abolish it, at least, initially, let us make it pay in several instalments, at least ten. Then, there is the second instalment of the deposit that must be paid all immediately, 100 percent, so that, suddenly, in November you find yourself paying the so-called chop. Well, we believe that this hurts the families, businesses and the economy of our country. Again in the tax field, we have called for the simplification of the calculation of the regional and municipal extras for tax substitutes. Colleagues, you must know that the monthly deduction made on the workers' paychecks, that which the tax substitute does to the employees, comes from the calculation of the income of the previous year; then, in March, while you are holding, you must make the assumed calculation of the deposit of the additional municipal that you have to pay in that same year, except then equalization at the end of the same year... Let's stop! The explanation already shows that it is a very complicated system. So, we asked for simplification, simply by comparing the calculation of the additionals to the IRPEF, that is: so much income you take in that month, there are many additional calculations, then, at the end of the year, as happens with the IRPEF, you make the match. It is the most logical thing, which allows you to know how many taxes you have to pay. On the forest fires front, you dismembered the State Forestry Corps. It would be appropriate to restore it, but if we really do not want to do so, at this point, since the forest fires burned, last summer, South Italy and, in these weeks, Northern Italy, we take the money, the financial and human resources and give them to the National Corps of Firefighters in order to allow a widespread presence on the territory. As far as the breakdown of the debitory folders is concerned, let's increase the number of installments. In fact, if we continue to predict a number of ridiculous installments, how do you expect those who could not pay to do so in three or five installments? A person who does not have the money must help her, so we have asked that in certain cases - that is, the cases of those who are below certain incomes - we expect up to 20 installments, in such a way as to welcome the taxpayer and not "scamazzare" him. Wrong people pay. Very well, but the state must also pay when it is wrong. We believe that it would be appropriate for the State to pay at a time when it is wrong and therefore, if a debitory folder has been notified beyond the date of expiry or limitation, even if following a request for payment by the user, at a time when we also have the start of an enforcement procedure (and therefore foreclosures and administrative detention) despite the folder has already fallen, then the State must pay the damages not only, but also compensation. Whoever is wrong pays: this concept applies to the taxpayer but it must also apply to the state, so let's see if you work or do not work. Even so, since the prescribed debitory folders for more than ten years that (despite this) are still notified are a sign of great negligence, we believe that the dealer must pay a penalty equal to the triple of the amount wrongly requested, compensating the taxpayer. As regards aid to enterprises, seasonal enterprises are strategic for Italy. Very often we fill our mouths with the saying that Italy is a great tourist village and that Italy should live only with tourism. Yes, that's all right, that's what we say with our mouths, but do we want to do some concrete acts? For the Italian seasonal companies we have proposed zero IRAP, also on the TFR. As far as small businesses are concerned, we have proposed a reduction in the TARI for new recruitment. We want to say to the entrepreneurs: calmly, now you can enlarge, you can enlarge your business, because the TARI is reduced: so if you take other sheds you don't have to worry but, of course, against the recruitment of new workers in excess of the average; certainly not for those who hire maybe a worker now having fired others some time ago. We then propose zero IRAP for micro-enterprises. Are we still thinking about micro-enterprises, whether or not they have to pay for IRAP? Stop! That's it. It's small. He's a small merchant or a small craftsman, but what are we waiting for? As far as the FTT is concerned, in this case we must ensure that the taxation is identical to the advance payments and advances made by the FTT, which is subject to a different taxation than that proposed, i.e. ordinary taxation. The calculations for the TFR in paycheck are complicated. We want to simplify them so that the employee, at the end of the report, does not suddenly find exorbitant figures to pay. With regard to pensions, we propose to stop the increase in the pension age associated with life expectancy, which is a really "out of control" thing. To conclude, Madam President, we are asking for the 100th pension rate to be introduced: first you work and first you retire. Finally, we propose, for the Italian Red Cross, the stop to privatisation, the abolition of health tickets and the abolition of the personal accident insurance policy for lawyers: are we still giving aid to insurance companies? Stop! The professional takes responsibility for himself, you cannot foresee an obligation. This last request, fortunately, has been accepted. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u35	I inform the Assembly that, in connection with the convening of several standing and bicameral committees, the sitting of the Assembly, unlike what had been said, will be suspended from 12.30 a.m. to 16.30 a.m., in accordance with the provisions of the Conference of Leaders, which entrusted this decision to the Presidency, taking into account the progress of the work. The morning work will be completed at 12.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u36	The next member to speak would be Senator Ceroni, but since Senator Candiani has a problem and asks to intervene first. I ask you, if it is the same for you, to intervene immediately afterwards. CERONI (FI-PdL XVII). Okay. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I therefore call on Senator Candiani to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u37	Madam President, thank you and thank Senator Ceroni for his helpfulness. You see, Madam President, I believe that the work that the government must do, like what the opposition must do, at these stages should be based on the utmost seriousness and certainly it is the proposition of this tax decree-law as a panacea for all evils, which solves all problems, both the ridicule of the measures, making lists "anything" are not an attitude or a mode that we share. You have to be very precise, you can not make lists like those we have just heard, going to promise roses and flowers, honey and milk that will come down from the sky automatically. What we would have expected and what we expect from the Government, especially at a final stage of the legislature like this, in which it is clear that much, compared to the great prospects of reform that had characterized the beginning of the legislature, is a pragmatism action. I will not go into a point-by-point examination, because objectively, as I said earlier, the lists "anywhere" are of no use to anyone, but some considerations I think are relevant and meritive. In this decree-law, unfortunately, it has come together, as well listed by Senator Stefani previously, in his speech to illustrate the question referred, a series of uneven actions that have nothing to do with a measure that should specifically concern taxation, but have to do with a way that we could define as a buffer against the problems that have occurred. Madam President, it is now and it is necessary for the legislator, and the government in the lead, to have a serious reflection on the quality of legislation, on what are the laws that are being approved, what is their content and what is their quality. It is not possible that, financial after financial, tax decree after tax decree (we will see it again next week, when we arrive at the examination of the draft budget law) each time it is about measures that curl up and go to put a piece on a previously approved measure. This means that at the moment when the legislator - in this case I refer directly to the Government, with the decree-laws - enters into the field, does so without having really weighed the content and merit of what goes to regulate by law and above all not going to do legal actions that have a vision, but running behind the circumstances and emotions. I am very surprised to read again, in this measure, Madam President, of emergency actions concerning the earthquake. And I am not surprised because I do not know the situation, indeed, I know it very well; I am surprised that, after a year, here we are still arguing as an emerging situation that, in fact, is but that after a year and a few months, compared to August 2016, in a civil country, serious and responsible cannot yet be in a state of emergency. If you go to the earthquake zones as we have, even in the past few days, you will realize that 90-92 percent of the earthquake structures are still on the ground and the rubble is not even removed. We have written, Madam President, and we have spoken - I think this is useful - with the new Commissioner for reconstruction, highlighting circumstances that are still marginally affected here. We have said this from the outset: how could one not consider what it meant to set deadlines for such tight tax deadlines? I am thinking of the indirect damage, but also the direct damage, I am thinking of the self-systemation by citizens, which is still in many cases the subject of litigation with the State, which does not pay back to citizens what they have done directly to find a housing solution, rather than to directly resolve their own situation as earthquake victims or, even worse, I am thinking of what the economic situation is. That to rebuild these cities, these countries, it takes years, was known from the beginning; that to rebuild the economic and productive fabric it will take many years is evident. How, then, can you think of setting tax deadlines a few months later, twelve months later and then be here today, with this decree-law, to postpone and move forward, six more months and a year? This means not having clear the inability of government action first of all to solve the problem and, secondly, to give answers, that every time they are patched up and unable to give our fellow citizens the certainty of a state that does not remember the situation only in the emergency phase, when a television crew arrives, but takes serious action because it is right that it is done and not because it needs to be done in favour of camera. I am tired, Madam President, of seeing the cameras running in those countries and framing narrow sections of the country neglecting the reality that is around, which is totally paralyzed. We said this: it was impossible to evaluate the economic parameter of the receipts according to the short period between September 2016 and December 2016, because, paradoxically, in the corresponding period of the previous year there was a decline while in 2016, also thanks to solidarity and emotional aspect, there were sales of stocks of the collapsed warehouses and of everything that could exist in those areas, which distort the balance sheet of the companies. We find ourselves, therefore, paradoxically with companies, artisans and earthquake-stricken producers who are excluded from the benefits of urban free zones because the period considered does not show a decrease in turnover. That's fake. It's not like that. We then insisted that it be considered a wider period and a wider segment. The same applies to contributory aspects. Can it be thought that, when someone returns to live in a container, there a productive, commercial, industrial and handicraft system that allows to have economy back in self-susistence has been restarted? No. I say this to the Government: there is a serious need for a vision that goes well beyond the five-year period on tax exemptions in these areas and in these areas. We are talking about a small part of our country, but it is symbolic of how, then, you are or are not able to deal with the bigger issues. Madam President, in this measure I find an article dedicated to Alitalia which leaves me disappointed. I read it from the 14th report. Commission: Article 12 extends until 30 April 2018 the deadline for the completion of the procedures for the disposal of Alitalia's corporate complexes in extraordinary administration, which are being carried out. Consequently, the State loan amounting to EUR 600 million, already provided for in favour of Alitalia, is supplemented by an additional EUR 300 million and its repayment is extended until 30 September 2018, in order to ensure the continuity of the To send back the problems and not to face them does not mean to solve them; it means to distribute and to charge citizens a further cost of a society that - we have understood - over time has been cooked, ricotta and decotta, with even an airport system like the Italian one, that is paradoxical: we have airports like those of Perugia and Malpensa, to the antipodes as to size, that are two cathedrals in the desert, sacrificed - like other Italians - to guarantee the subsistence and the existence of a carrier that is now no longer flagship. We know very well that the property is no longer Italian and it was evident from the beginning that it was only a matter of time and then would mow employees and means. Madam President, on these things we must be very serious and determined to give a sign to the country that the policies that are being implemented are intended to solve the problems, not to move them further. In here we have once again the policy of pulling in and moving, trying to give answers without going too far in the matter, to avoid stepping on a few feet, which then becomes inconvenient. In recent days two important referendums have been held, in Veneto and in Lombardy, which have given a boost: we hope that the Government will quickly respond to the requests for autonomy of our fellow citizens, as a sign of responsibility. Article 18 of the Decree-Law under consideration allocates EUR 21.5 million for the financing of specific objectives related to research, assistance and care activities, aimed at improving the delivery of LEAs (essential levels of assistance). We know that these resources are abundantly underestimated, as we have heard in the hearings in the Commission of representatives of the regions, who will not be able to and will not be able to find the resources they need. There is a need for a great reform of responsibility, which brings our regions and our fellow citizens to know that their money and resources are administered by the closest responsibilities, therefore by the Regions, not by a distant Ministry that does nothing but cut linearly, without going to see the merit of those who know how to spend them well or of those who waste them. We must speed up that reform or rather a devolution of powers which alone can save the State hundreds of millions of euros: these are the things we want to see implemented. For the rest, as we said and as I repeat, Madam President, we are not pleased with the image that circulates on the web in which the President of the Republic, looking at the earthquake victims, says: We haven't forgotten about you, in fact, we are here to ask you to pay taxes. It is the paradox of a country that supports the European Union, unless it has to put a plunging in Article 10, increasing - again according to the above-mentioned report - from 700 million to one billion the proportion of anticipation charged to the Rotation Fund for European policies, in the more than accreditation of the contributions of the European Union to the European Solidarity Fund, in order to ensure the timely activation of interventions in favour of the areas of Central Italy affected by the earthquake. You are talking about "timeliness" when for a year the rubble is still on the ground; you are talking about a European Union, to which you are constantly giving its side, which does not even transfer funds and obliges Italians to anticipate their own resources! No. We are not satisfied and we are not happy, especially because of the lack of concreteness in these actions. The country needs a fiscal shock, a reduction in the tax burden on businesses. When we talk about flat tax, we are talking about a serious, strong and courageous tax reform. We have seen it these days: in the United States, President Trump is described by the media as falling free from the liking of his fellow citizens but, on the other hand, he produces an increase in gross domestic product that is going to become well over twice as much as that of Italy. In the coming years we will expect a 5% or 6% growth, even more, while here we are always driven by the rest of the growth of the European Union, otherwise we do not have any. We want this tax shock, this tax reduction and, above all, the tax wedge and the cost of labour. Stop talking about finance; you go back to talking about work. Only with work is wealth created, only with the wealth created by work can the public debt and debt of the Italians be reduced. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u38	Senator Ceroni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u39	Madam President, Deputy Minister Morando, ladies and gentlemen, the tax decree No 148 of 16 October 2017 under discussion has the dual task of covering the fiscal gaps of the 2017 State, mainly determined by the failure of voluntary collaborations (less 1,070 million euros of revenue compared to the forecasts) and of realizing resources for the 2018 Stability Act. The Government makes cash through the reopening of the terms for the facilitated payment of the tax loads (30 June 2018 for 701 million), the tax disputes pending (400 million), the extension of the split payment also to all the companies controlled by the public administration (57.7 million), the extension of the concessions of the games (800 million, of which 50 in 2017). The Government reduces the resources available to the Ministries by one billion 92 million. The increased revenue thus provided is used to cover the sterilization of the increase in the reduced VAT rate and excise duties on petroleum products (840 million), the financing of the Social Fund for Employment (200 million), the Guarantee Fund for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (300 million), the financing of assistance on the rail network (420 million) and for international missions (140 million). The measure refers to the law of stability the boulder, which weighs on the state budget, represented by the safeguard clause of the increase in VAT rates, which totals 15,742 million, 14 of which are charged to the 2018 budget. Of course, this clause absorbs almost all available resources. The reason is that, in part, they come from the magnanimity of the European Commission, which authorizes an additional debt of 11.2 billion. Meanwhile, to date, the Bank of Italy has announced that the public debt has reached the share of 2,283 billion. We are faced with yet another omnibus measure that intervenes in open violation of the recommendations of the Constitutional Court that, for the decrees-laws, demands the extraordinary necessity, urgency and homogeneous contents. At the last moment, a number of amendments have been included in this measure which, in fact, upset it with respect to the original version. I would like to take the example of the amendment which provides for the reform of the tax agencies which has arrived at the last moment. That's 20 pages. There was no debate, debate and even the possibility of making any contribution. The measure also contains rules to deal with the seismic crisis of 26 August 2016 and following. Minister, the rules concerning the earthquake are now divided into five measures. Other rules are also contained in the Stability Act. We have six measures. Is it possible that it takes six decrees-laws to deal with a calamity like the earthquake? Is it possible that a clear and understandable measure cannot be taken by businesses, citizens and professionals? Of course, this situation, on which I would like to dwell, has led to the failure of the reconstruction work. In this measure we had proposed a series of amendments suggested by the mayors of the earthquake-stricken municipalities, which you have obviously ignored. In the meantime, one point needs to be clarified: do not put money into this measure for the earthquake, but simply anticipate another 300 million which is part of the billion courtesy of the European Community. To date the rubble is almost all there, the camposanti are still in the condition in which they have been reduced by shocks, the interventions on the road are entirely to be realized (it took more than a year to reopen the Valnerina) and the houses are still in the high sea. They had been requested by the four affected regions 3,702 houses, but they have arrived to date (the figure is November 14) only 1,228. The Marches had requested 1,843 and had 287. There will be another winter of insecurity for the earthquake victims. The cost of SAE (we had proposed to buy the unsold building stock) has become incredible, because urbanizations cost five times the price per square meter of the house. The light and heavy reconstruction is still at its starting point and you have not even managed to find a viable solution for Grandma Peppina, whose case has exposed our country to the ridicule in the eyes of the whole world. Mr Vice-Minister, I had already explained this in this House, but you did not want to understand it: to authorize the construction of Grandma Peppina's house you need a derogation from landscape rules, park rules and regional rules. You, with the amendment that you have tabled, proceed by way of derogation from Article 167 of Legislative Decree No 42 of 2004, which says "Order of return to the Pristina or payment of financial compensation." So you do the derogation only in Article 167 and not in the rules that can permit the authorization of this construction. We asked to move the deadline for the completion of AEDES cards by a few months, because 31 January 2018 is too close; in fact, there are still thousands of inspections to be carried out. Force traders to make a mortgage with banks, guaranteed by the state, to cover and honor the expiration of tax payments. We asked you to treat the Marches as you did the Abruzzo people (reduction to 40% of the amounts to be paid), but none of this has been accepted. You have come to the absurdity that a citizen of an earthquakeed municipality, who had destroyed the house and who is in the red zone, will not pay the mortgage payments until 2020. If, however, one stays outside the red zone, he is forced to start paying the mortgage again, although objectively he is not yet in a position to do so. As far as schools are concerned, all the competitions you've banned have been deserted. The notice stipulated that the companies that wanted to participate in the competition for the construction and repair of the buildings would have to deliver, together with the offer, the executive projects, which has discouraged almost all the enterprises to come forward (in practice, very few interventions have started). For the Marches 38 interventions were expected, for a total of 139 million, but we are at zero point. I will just pause for a moment (because time is running) on legality. You have an astonishing idea of legality. You're allergic to legality. The legality must be respected by others, while you are exempted. Let me give you a concrete example: the school of Amatrice has a sign on the site (works should be in progress) according to which the general coordinator for the implementation of the school building plan is the surveyor Benedetto Renzetti, who has been entrusted with the responsibility of following these 21 schools, 18 to be carried out directly by the commissioner and 3 built directly by the donors. This young man does not have the skills to assume such a position, both for the economic importance of the work and for the technical importance, because it is a complex structure. The director of the work, Mr. Deputy Minister, is Fausto Cecchini, junior engineer: he too does not have the title of study suitable for carrying out this type of work. The security coordinator is another architect, Marco Pirri, from the University of Rome; he played an administrative technical role and, also junior, does not have the skills. And the school goes on in total lawlessness. Madam President, I shall finish. I leave aside the controversy between the old commissioner Errani and Ceriscioli, but I do not understand whether or not the President of the Region speaks with the commissioners. Today's newspapers report: "Ceriscioli writes to De Micheli: "Procedures too complex and farraginous for reconstruction." Again: •Unjustified delays for SAEs. It is necessary to simplify the process. But between the President of the Region and the commissioner is it necessary to write or is it better to speak? Isn't it more effective if you take the phone and explain the things to do? That's why reconstruction is on the stake: because you have not been able to face this immense tragedy in the proper ways. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u40	The children and teachers of the Istituto tecnico tecnologico statale Welcome, guys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u41	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pezzopane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I greet Deputy Minister Morando on behalf of the Government. I would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues in the Budget Committee, who have supported a very intensive effort in drafting these days, and I would also like to thank the President of the Budget Commission. In place of a colleague, I have been able to share this experience and I find that, at the end of these challenging days, we should all, as we did last night (in fact, late at night, almost morning) in the Commission, give an appropriate opinion. In fact, on many amendments there has been a convergence that I cannot breathe today. It seems like from 3 o'clock this night to 11 o'clock this morning, there's been an abyss. I do not agree, because these are important places; they are places where the work we have done in the previous days should be reported with adequate loyalty and serenity. The truth is that we have shared many things and that, indeed, on many issues the majority has taken a step back in order to be able to give colleagues in the opposition a space of action. These are the facts. Now, let's get into it. The tax decree deals with many, many issues and deals with them quite well. If we see imperfection on something, there is time - and this is what the Deputy Minister has said several times - to intervene in the budget law (we begin immediately) to, if necessary, adjust the pitch of some norm: I think of the free zones for the earthquake areas or tax agencies or other topics that, precisely because of the complexity and hardness of the comparison, perhaps need a few more days. And we will; we have said it and we do it. But on many issues we have found a balance and are now included in the decree. And that's good for the country. I am thinking of extending the possibility of scraping files, neutralising the increase in VAT, increasing the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, measures to support companies in crisis, extending the eco-bonus, the bonus for restructuring and the earthquake -bonus, the story of Bagnoli and Matera, the dry coupon, the stop to the 28-day bills, on which a great national debate took place: we resolved it with a convergence. I am also thinking of the autonomous exit from the school, the stalking, the fair compensation for lawyers who took so long and demanded important mediations to which both the rapporteur and the Deputy Minister dedicated themselves. In the decree to our examination - but I tell you, according to the modesty and humility of my experience as administrator of earthquaked territories in 2009, that this will happen also in other decrees - I find that some statements made do not take into account the experiences in the field and the lived life of those territories. I also think of others, such as Umbria, Marche, Molise and Belice, where, for years and years, the legislation had to be adjusted. I am amazed by some summary judgments, especially of the representatives of the center-right who were in the government of the country in 2009, when Abruzzo and, in particular, the city of L'Aquila were hit by a devastating earthquake. The focus was particularly on the issue of tax suspension. In order to obtain the suspension of taxes and the first extension of this suspension, which this Government has automatically realized already with instruments prior to this, the Abruzzo had to go down to the square, taking also the batons. [[Applause from Senator Mattesini.]] Now, transforming this event into a mythical story confronts reality. The problem was that the suspension of taxes at the time and the partial refund, which of course had benefited the citizens who had benefited from it, already in the earthquake that occurred in Emilia-Romagna in 2012, was subject to revision. In fact, in the case of that earthquake, the suspension of taxes was shorter and the return went to 100 percent. It is therefore clear that there is a path of change of the state, not of majorities, in the approach to these events, also because the European Union intervened on the earthquake in 2009 with a heavy infringement procedure and the request for the return of very large sums came to large companies in the earthquake area. With Secretary Gozi we are now carrying out a very difficult mediation so that these sums do not have to be repaid. I therefore believe, and with great modesty I bring these arguments, that if we throw everything into confusion and political confrontation, we do not get out of it. The memory of what has happened in recent years should in fact be a collective heritage. We have achieved so many good things, as the previous governments have done. However, there is a continuing need for adjustments and changes. When I arrived in the Senate, I had the dream of an organic law on the earthquake, which I also presented, but then I realized how difficult it is to have an organic vision of earthquakes that are all different. In this legislature we faced 2009, when we were left without money and the government had to put in the first measure the decree on local authorities, 1.4 billion; the Deputy Minister will remember that the financing was initially coated for six years and then we anticipated them, because fortunately the draw was important and deserved to be paid. Then we had to manage 2012 and its measure. Then came other natural disasters, those of 2016 and January 2017, which hit Abruzzo, with bad weather and earthquake together. Then there were the calamities that struck Ischia, Livorno and Piedmont. Well, in the decree-law under consideration, all these issues are dealt with very wisely. Clearly - I am sure - further adjustments will also be needed with regard to the rules that we are about to approve, because work is in progress and there are no models or a scheme. Every earthquake is different. Do we want to compare the earthquake of Ischia with that of Central Italy, which involved 4 Regions and 150 Municipalities? Let's think about the diversity between an average city, such as Ascoli Piceno or Teramo, and the micro municipalities, without inhabitants or with all second houses. The legislation needs to be adjusted and we will certainly do so. However, some problems are resolved in the decree-law under consideration. In the meantime, we're talking about public housing. Everyone knows it's a fixation for me, even a memory of experience. With normal rules (which of course must be safeguarded, because they guarantee efficiency, but also legality and administrative rigour) in a state of emergency and even in the post-emergency it is not possible to contract. If we take the example of 2009, we realize that, except for a few small buildings, work has not been started for schools, precisely for European appeals and competitions. The measure before us - I am grateful for it - finally gives us an answer, which we will experience immediately. There are in fact contracts to be put in place immediately and we will see if, finally, with a shorter procedure, mediated with the DAC and the relevant ministries, you can give the answers more quickly. In fact, public construction, paradoxically, is slower than private construction: in private construction there is the immediate grant of the contribution, while in public building the public body is required to a complex procedure. I am convinced that having unified the contracting and entrusted stations will bring a benefit. Let's also think about the story of the abusive houses (the ones of "grandma Peppina"): we are talking about an abusive phenomenon that certainly in emergency situations can arise, but that must be regulated with sparingy, because from a response to a precise necessity it could be determined of the derogations that, especially in the earthquake areas of Central Italy (which are all subject to landscape constraints and to the legislation on parks, referred to in law 6 December 1991, n. 394), could determine an effect different from that that that the majority and the Government have profiled, that is, a devastation of the territory. It is clear that the derogation reference is to the existing planning legislation, which in those areas is extraordinary and subject to certain rules. So, there's the derogation. Again, the rule must immediately be placed in the hands of the mayors and the matter settled. Inside the so-called earthquake package there are many important issues for Central Italy, as well as those I mentioned. I am thinking of the extension of the contributions and the SIA earthquake areas, which are finally being addressed, as well as the funding to the municipalities of seismic zones for security projects. It doesn't look like anything, but it's a lot for those who have had that experience. The municipality doesn't have the money to do the project and must turn on mortgages (that you can't even do so much), and then regularize it all. So public housing projects don't go ahead. The measure under consideration provides for resources and answers to the municipalities. Then there is the reference to the question of taxes and, as I have already said, to the possibility of indemnifying them. Someone contested its rule, while I find it quite clever, because the company can subsequently repay the sums, without charging the State for the non-return of the sums themselves. The Government, through the measures (so the State), takes charge of the interest rate, which is substantially cancelled. Therefore, while the question of the free zone must be absolutely focused and updated, there was a mistake on the part of Parliament when it wanted to give the answer with the free zone at once. I had some concerns, because a free zone can work, in an earthquake area, at a time after the first phase of the emergency. It is not possible, in fact, to plan already a development and a procedure of restart, so it is clear that the enterprises, immediately after the earthquake, not only have not always had a decrease of revenues, but even some have recorded a peak: I think of those commercial activities, that perhaps they have had to support the emergency, in the field of bakery or commerce or restaurants and hotels. The reference to social hospitality is also a novelty in legislation, which seeks to provide answers to problems. Abruzzo, in relation to the 2009 earthquake, also finds solutions to ancient problems: the workers of the special offices and the precarious workers of the municipalities are extended for another two years, with amendments that I have tabled - and I thank them for their approval - because this puts in a position to plan all the activity aimed at disposing of the practices. We then intervene with the norm on procedures for school construction and on the possibility for the municipalities - beyond that of L'Aquila, that has already done so - to start an action in order to support the reconstruction, with an infrastructural work of subservices. They are therefore small wired cities, which "take advantage" of reconstruction to support, underground, targeted actions to strengthen networks. There are also other important rules concerning Abruzzo. We must clarify - perhaps we will do so in the budget law - the issue of the employees of the Ripam project (Redevelopment of public administration), as I mentioned in the Commission too, namely those collaborators for reconstruction after the earthquake, permanent employees, contest winners called by the Ministry, but they do not have a stable allocation, that is, they are lent to the municipalities and offices responsible for reconstruction up to 2021, even if in the text of the rapporteur it is proposed that they be so until 2023. On that date, when reconstruction is supposed to be completed, however, they will enter into an allocation procedure, so, according to the text of the so-called Barca law, mobility is expected. This implies that those workers, seeing an uncertain time, try to make other competitions and go elsewhere. Because they are very good, the competitions win them; moreover, to win the Ripam contest there were five tests to overcome and therefore they are very prepared and competent people. So, the most important offices are being emptied by hand. That is why in my amendment, which I have withdrawn at the moment, but whose subject I think needs to be addressed, I envisaged the possibility of protocols of understanding with the Ministries and local authorities, so that they could define stations, with a sort of reservation, so that, at the end of the reconstruction process, now indicated in 2023, those people would know where they would end up, because, not knowing it, they try to find other ways to have a stable seat and not risk ending up perhaps on a mobility list. It is an entirely technical and organizational theme, but in the territory of the earthquake of 2009 this theme is creating problems, also because there is a list of suitable, so, paradoxically, those who are in the succession of the ranking are called by the Ministries and assumed, rightly, indefinitely. So, who won it, has this strange location and who did not win it directly, but is still suitable and in some way enabled, maybe immediately finds a location. I apologise if I have given particular thought to this, but it is a subject that is causing several fibrillations in the operation of the offices and I would not like this to slow down the pull of the reconstruction. Another issue introduced with the rapporteur's amendment concerns the abolition of the UTRs in May 2018, which I believe also needs some corrective action which, during the night of the work in the Commission, has not been possible for the speed and novelty of the text, not anticipated, but which in the budget law I think really deserves a lot of attention. I have withdrawn an amendment concerning the A24 and A25 motorways. I do not dwell on this issue, but there is a security emergency, a great concern for users, the fear that tariffs will be increased, so I would like the content of that amendment that I had tabled to be discussed at least in the relevant ministries. We are working on this in order, perhaps, to arrive at a regulatory definition. In conclusion, I think I can say that with this decree-law, with respect to the various issues addressed, but certainly also on natural disasters and consequent emergencies, important and adequate answers are given, not perfect, because there is no perfection in this field: there are no manuals either of the good earthquake and of the good administrator who must manage the earthquake; every story is in itself. Our effort must be not to use earthquakes or natural tragedies to throw it into a caciara, but to cooperate, as we have done in the Commission, also in the political debate. The people who suffer an earthquake are very fragile; for them there is no security: losing their homes, their jobs, and perhaps some of your family's souls brings you into a state of total insecurity. Instrumentalizing that insecurity is a very bad and extremely negative thing that we all have to avoid. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u43	Senator Casson is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u44	Madam President, under the noble, reassuring and positive cloak of cyber security, there is still a pervicacious attempt to propose an amendment to us on the subject of secret services, security, in particular the creation of a foundation of private law to protect our cyber-security. It is a pervicacious attempt that has had modalities and purposes in the use of a opaque and wrong instrument. I was saying the story hasn't ended yet. This is an amendment which was first tabled to the draft budget law, which was subsequently declared inadmissible by the President of the Budget Commission. 11:59 a.m. (Casson followed). Once we disappeared, this amendment became a ghost, we found it within the tax bill. It seems to have been declared admissible and then, in yesterday's night sitting, despite the agency messages talking about an approved amendment, it was withdrawn by the Government and we are now announced that this text, which provides for the creation of a private law foundation in the field of intelligence services, will reappear either at the time of the vote of confidence that will be placed or, more likely, during the discussion of the budget law. It is a pervicacious attempt, until now aborted, which must be pointed out for reasons of an exquisitely institutional nature. This is certainly not an attack on the secret services, which we intend to protect, it is not an underestimation of the level of cyber protection and national cybersecurity, which we want to protect in the most absolute way, it is not - I say this from an opposition position - an attack on the Government, but a request for total transparency, a request for respect for the institutions that is being addressed to the Government at this moment. This amendment reproduced, almost ghost, presented to the draft budget law and retabled for the tax decree, refers to the possibility that the President of the Council of Ministers, but in particular the Department of Security Information, the DIS, chaired by Prefect Pansa at this time, may also constitute for the promotion of targeted research activities, a foundation under private law. This is amazing. I had personally come to know about this on Monday. I didn't want to believe what I was told. I asked, outside the work of the Copasir, the Parliamentary Committee for the Security of the Republic, and so I can speak about it, who was aware of this matter. The members of the Committee knew nothing. We tried to understand something but neither did the House and Senate Leaders of all the Groups knew why and how this amendment had been inserted and for what purpose. Obviously, the story began to become darker and more worrying. In fact, if we look at the amendment proposed for the draft budget law and pervicaciously proposed for the draft tax law, we remain even more perplexed because the aims of this foundation under private law are not described. We are also talking about the promotion of targeted research activities and we do not know what they are, but above all that research also gives us concern. To what does it refer and why should private parties be called upon to intervene directly in the activities of our intelligence when, under current law and in accordance with current regulations, there is absolutely no need? Our intelligence, in fact, can already work with universities, with research institutes through conventions regularly provided for by law, which must be communicated to the Copasir and which have their entire institutional procedure corrected in such a way that maximum transparency is always guaranteed. Among other things, I must say that the fact that the prefect leader at this time of the DIS is being audited and not telling the parliamentary committee on the security of the Republic of this matter is already in itself an issue that raises many, many doubts. The DIS, in fact, has many tasks. It is enough to quickly scroll through the founding law - to which we also contributed in 2007 - the constitutive law of the new information systems for the security of the Republic, No. 124 of 2007, in order to realize how the powers of the DIS are immense. They always refer to the Presidency of the Council but nowhere, neither for the part concerning the powers and competences of the DIS, nor in other parts, there is talk of foundations under private law, private entities but in a very correct manner and institutional measure. In fact, after talking, in article 8 of this law, about the exclusivity of the functions attributed to the DIS, to the external secret service and to the internal secret service, that is, AISI and AISE, as regards the matter and the functions of intelligence, it is said in article 11 that agreements can be concluded with subjects and public and private administrators, as well as with the university and with the research agencies according to the perspective of protection and protection, even if not above all, cybernetic and computer science. Now, as a result of these rules, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the subordinates DIS, AISE and AISI have made extensive use of conventions with our dozens of universities, precisely to underline and extend the research activity in the field of cybersecurity and cybernetics. In view, therefore, of a very clear regulatory and intelligence landscape that works, which has not created any doubts so far, we are faced with an amendment of this kind, on which, among other things, during yesterday evening's sitting, Group 1 intervened to ask for its deletion in part here, through the amendment proposed by Senator Ricchiuti, also signed by me and Senator Lo Moro, precisely because such a situation cannot be accepted (in conclusion I will say what the risk is that we are running). This of the foundation under private law - I repeat - is a wrong instrument: when we passed this law in 2007, we demanded, wanted, evaluated and voted for the maximum transparency of our security services precisely to avoid grey areas, opaque areas, commissions. We wanted everything to be public, to take a clear and institutional path and we wanted to avoid rules of this kind that do not know where they are born and do not know where they are going. In addition to this, there are opaque ways, because I do not understand why the House and Senate Leaders had not been informed of such an important rule that changes the institutional structure of our intelligence and we do not understand why - they will then tell us if this fact corresponds to truth - the head of the DIS contacts the summits of the Senate Budget Commission to speak directly about this affair (it is absolutely outside of any rule, so we would also like to understand what, why and how it happened on this matter) and we do not understand what they want with the creation of this fund, without precisely informing not necessarily, but necessarily, the Parliamentary Committee and without informing in advance the political forces that must vote on it in Parliament. Above all, we do not know where to go, because here we are doing - this is the risk - absolutely unnecessary private interests in a very delicate matter. Who needs this foundation under private law? Who will end up in it, with what purposes, with what purposes? I appeal to the Government, because we are able to intervene and block this situation, but it will be clear whether this which I call an "institutional deviation" will find its legs to move forward or will be permanently blocked in this Senate Chamber. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u46	Mr President, I have asked to speak on this measure and on the most important amendment, because we are talking about a few dozen million in some parts, a few hundred million in others, but here there is an amendment of 11 billion that has passed without great clamor, it is 130.0.7, tabled by my colleagues of the member Südtiroler Volkspartei of the Group Per le Autonomie, which gives thirty years of concession to a municipalized hegemonized by the mentioned party and the Democratic Party that dominate in that region, who will be able to enjoy for thirty years, in addition to the three already enjoyed, because the concession had expired on 30 April 2014, of a concession that in the last year has resulted in revenues of 370 million, a gross operating margin between 160 and 170 million and even a profit exceeding 100 million. This, multiplied for the thirty years for which there is this gift, involves eleven billions (plus one for the three years already passed without any race) of revenues; five billions, more means, regarding the gross operating margin and, even, considering only the profit, are however two and a half billions. This in the face of what? Of the payment of seventy million for seven years, that is half a billion. The State, that is, receives half a billion - in the future, not immediately - and, in return, gives the green light to five and a half billion that would be much better in the coffers of the State, for the many needs that the State has, rather than in a new municipalized. I had heard that this government and the previous government wanted to reduce the municipalities. Maybe, instead, they massacre municipalized, sometimes even useful (not all are useless, in fact), from a few tens of thousands of euros, creating inconveniences in municipalities for disservices, but one is created destined to collect 12 billion over the next thirty-three years. What's the alternative? The alternative must not be proposed, because it had already been done. The Berlusconi Government, with Minister Matteoli, in September 2011 had activated the procedures for the concession. Because it is a good rule to activate the rules for a competition after the concession; not when the concession has largely expired, as the current Government is doing for Turin-Piacenza, but before. And Minister Matteoli did it almost three years before the concession expires. The conditions were similar to those in this amendment, with a small difference: those were the basic levels: seventy million per year to be paid for seven to eight years. From there there there could be the downward offers of those who participated in the race. Here, on the other hand, we started from the base and at the base we stay. So, it's a huge gift. There are omissions because in this amendment there is none of the conditions or constraints laid down, on the other hand, in the contract launched by the Berlusconi Government in 2011. This isn't about investment. A tariff reduction or, at least, a reduction in increases are not mentioned. Basically, something that had to be done in competition, in competition, is given as a gift for thirty-three years. Now, I ask the Government to have common sense and respect for citizens not to include Amendment 13.0.7 in the maxi amendment, on which we certainly rely and on which the question of trust will be raised. I repeat, we go here to "sprinkle." The government says: the million for this thing is not there; the twenty million for this other one are not there. And then he makes a gift of five and a half billion, limiting himself to the operating margin, to a municipalized one. We don't understand. Every explanation that comes to mind is malicious, so I don't make any. I would ask the Government not to include this measure in the maxi amendment, rather than giving explanations. These things can be done later. If it is in the convenience of the citizens, it will be possible to do so. But I do not think it is convenient for citizens to do anything to remove a measure which the Government itself, as legislator, has included, namely the ban on the extension of motorway concessions, with the exception, of course, of the in-houses, with all the problems that this envisages. Because here it is expected, basically, to give a disguised extension. Instead of giving it to subject A, and extending for thirty years to subject A, one invents a subject that is identical to subject A. It is subject A that has to buy some shares of private individuals, who will, among other things, be able to obtain the price they want. Because, since their percentage of participation in the motorway share ownership is mandatory, they can ask for the price they want. So, another improper gift. All this is justified by a vague revival of investment. European standards, common sense and the obligation for municipalities, for example, want savings to be obtained by doing races, not gifts: there is a big difference. Here, however, we have chosen to make the gift, I repeat: at least, in the most pessimistic of hypotheses, 5.5 billion gifts of an infrastructure that will be managed by a municipalized, as we know well. In that region we move from positions of leadership of one of the two parties indicated (the Democratic Party and La Südtiroler Volkspartei) to a presidency and a megadirigency of this highway and from one to the other. It's basically the same thing. Here we wanted to abolish half the Constitution in order to save 50 million euros a year and then we give each other 5 and a half billion. Congratulations: I ask the government to have the modest - I repeat - not to include this amendment in the maxi amendment: it would be a shame and a slap to the Italians, as well as to the companies that would like to be made competitive. I remember that we are no longer - and have never been - in the five-year plans of the Soviet Union; here we are instead in the five-year plans - indeed, thirty-three years - of gift concessions, waiting to make other gifts to other dealers, of which we read in the newspapers. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Giovanardi]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u47	We greet students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo - Citadella-Margherita Hack in Ancona, who are currently attending our work from the stands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u48	Senator Bellot is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u49	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government and Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are about to adopt is made up of lights and shadows. It reflects, in a nutshell, the attitude of the majority who support this Executive and, even more so, the mood and mood of the main shareholder of this majority and of the previous one. In the same way as trying to sew the rift with the country, it has been tried with this measure to remedy some errors of evaluation - to give a generous definition - committed previously. In the text, in the end, a little bit of everything has been included, including the rule that defines the new time limits of the positions of summit of the Armed Forces: yet another omnibus measure. Another sad note, which unfortunately returns to be heard in this branch of Parliament, is the timing given to the debate. I am referring, for example, to the government's amendments relating to seismic events, texts which would certainly have deserved a more detailed discussion and which are almost a separate measure for the quantity and importance of the provisions included, as well as the proposals of all the Commissioners and other Members of Parliament. No, it is not: to table amendments and to put an early deadline for sub-amendments, without the possibility of carrying out the necessary in-depth studies. I therefore turn back to the call made by other colleagues to consider further requests at the budgetary stage concerning the serious inconvenience which concerns the problems of earthquake areas. With an amendment to the bill of conversion it was then corrected to a macroscopic error, denounced on several occasions in various acts of inspection union presented also by us of the Fare Group! which to date, in our case, still remain unanswered. At last, stalking offences can no longer be extinguished with the "conducted repair" or with an economic compensation. The Government, after the political controversy and the associations following the first case in Turin, which we all know, decided to intervene to change the recent reform to criminal proceedings. The result is certainly not the result of a careful reflection by the Executive or some of its excellent members, but of the battle carried out by the associations and some of us, who have strongly denounced the gravity of the matter. In summary, as I said, there are many shadows and few lights in this measure, from which we expected something more: on the one hand, for example, the measures relating to split payment are certainly appreciable; on the other, the provisions on the simplified definition referred to in Article 1, which in fact risk giving rise to a form of repeated pardon, raises doubts. These are provisions which meet the requirements of electoral procedures and which are likely to constitute an additional incentive for unfair behaviour against the tax authorities, such as in particular the evasion of collection, which is already on the increase, with a very negative impact on the maintenance of the tax system as a whole. The only note for which I may say that we have really achieved a strong concrete result and for which I express satisfaction both personal and on behalf of the Fare Group! is what I consider a victory first of all of the students and then of the right to study. I am referring to the adoption of the amendment to my first signature - and I should like to thank the rapporteur for the honesty of having recognized my motherhood - which extends the tax deduction for rental fees, which is provided for students outside the university, even if the university is located in a municipality at least 50 kilometres away from that of residence, also from the province itself. Let's remember that the legislation in place speaks of 100 kilometers uniquely for all students. This amendment refers to 50 kilometres for students living in mountain or disadvantaged areas. It is an important change that goes in the right direction and allows students in those areas to enjoy the very important deductions that allow those families to support their children during their studies and to have an equity in a right that must, in our opinion, be recognized to all. It is an important but not definitive result. President, I address the Government and all those who have supported this request with the hope that this form of facilitation, which we know to be experimental, as the rapporteur has defined it, and this form of deduction for those who study and reach schools and universities with difficulties can become structural and be of support to families living in mountainous areas and in disadvantaged areas, with greater difficulties and costs and different possibilities of accessing the study. We hope that, once tested in this two-year period for which it has been provided by the tax decree, it can be tested for the necessary cover and the real use in order to become a norm that will always be possible to use for these our students. It's a piece that I feel proud to have room with those who supported it. Talking about the phenomenon of depopulation, the difficulty of living in the mountains and the real conditions of those who live in a reality that is gradually depleted and sees a demographic decline is easy; instead, I think it is time to say enough. We have to do it and this time we have finally done it. [[Applause from the Mixed-Doing Group!]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u51	Mr President, this year too, the measure we are discussing today is linked to the budget law. This is the second year following the abolition of the law of stability which, as we know, had long been accused of having become a container, a circus carriage of rules with the most disparate content that had very little to do with budgetary matters in the strict sense. Now that there have been several restrictions on this front, I have the feeling that the equivalent method of omnibus rules has been infected by the so-called tax decree-law, so much so that today's provision contains, in reality, only four articles of a strictly fiscal nature (the dismantling of folders bis, the extension of split payament, the sterilization of the increase of VAT and the suspension of taxes for territories affected by natural disasters). Everything else is very questionable that can lead back to tax matters. However, in the spirit of cooperation and in the pursuit of the improvement of the text, we had tabled good amendments to the Commission which were irreparably rejected. I refer, for example, to the provisions for the development of the library sector in municipalities with a population of less than 20,000. We complain that Italians read little, that they invest little in culture and therefore we argue that incentive measures are necessary. But the aid to the small and historical libraries of the small municipalities has fallen into the void. I have tabled amendments concerning investments in intelligent transport systems, based on the interaction between information technology, telecommunications and multimedia, which make it possible to tackle in an innovative way the problems of public, collective and private mobility, by developing in an organic and functional way solutions based on safety, efficiency, effectiveness and cost-effectiveness while respecting the environment. But these proposals have also been rejected. I am also referring to a number of amendments adapting to the principles of European law in the field of staff of tax agencies. We have not been allowed to make a better contribution in this case either, given the mounting bursts of an increasingly probable vote of confidence. So with regret we must once again note the Government's use of the instrument of urgent decree to bring to Parliament a measure which, as confirmed by the best tradition of the left in vogue in recent years of legislature, sins in form and in ways, representing a further example of worsening the quality of legislation. A measure which is linked to the budget law, of which we see shortcomings and shortcomings in development and growth. There is no concrete and credible perspective, no effective strategy, no unified vision of projection in a future that must be taken into account, which deserves attention and availability of intelligence and credible governance. Or, better to say, here the only projection seems to be always the electoral one. Precisely because we are very close to the end of the XVII legislature, we fear that the Government will use the last acts more to please a part of the electorate to whom it turns to try to climb up the slope that for the pursuit of the entire good of the country. What is striking is that nothing really serious is being done to reduce the tax burden; on the contrary, we can say that the provisions on split payment are likely to turn into a real tax on liquidity for businesses and professionals. And still on the South we find lacks of attention. We have said this many times and we repeat it: the Mezzogiorno needs decisive action, from the tax credit to the tax advantage, and it does not need some commercials and some measure so-called light (light). Once again, a blatant mockery, which certainly amplifies the degree of unreliability and inadequacy of this Government. There would be other reasons for disapproval to be listed on this measure, but those just stated are, in my view, an extract sufficient to express our dissension to this conversion measure, which once again, on the substance as in the method, proves the shortcomings of a government that is now visibly projected in the electoral campaign and that runs out in search of consensus, lending itself to small cabotage operations, good to please someone, but that to look well lack of breath and vision and little are based on the principles of good administration. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, PPL, RP)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u52	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u53	Mr President, if we want to get out of the risk of greenwashing and really want to implement the much-famous circular economy, we must understand that we must observe phenomena and implement precise strategies. In Italy we have a market of about 2.1 million tons of plastics; we collect 900,000 tons and send only 540,000 tons to recycling. There is therefore a recycled equivalent to a quarter of what is released for consumption (these are Assorimap data of last year). Why is this happening? Yet in Italy we have technologies and systems that make us leaders in the sector, but without an adequate system of valorization of this supply chain, it happens that, as well as brains, there is a continuous flight of companies to countries that, unlike ours, implement economic policies for the benefit of those who really implement policies of circular economy. About 50 percent of the plastics collected end up in incinerators or landfills; recently more in landfill than in incinerators, because the incinerators are clogged. The Plasmix, which is the least noble part of plastics, made net of PET and polyethylene (they are the so-called mixed plastics), is having an increase in production, because there is a greater demand for disposable products and especially packaging aimed at better maintenance of food products. These plasmamix products seem difficult to recycle, but they are not. In fact, research has allowed for several decades to transform these plastic residues into raw materials; it is not from today, but at least for ten years, that these products have European certifications. With them you can make urban furnishings, school benches, sound absorbing panels and much more. But it is a chain that is not supported and encouraged. These wastes, therefore, seek another type of solution and end up in incinerators; these, being unable to receive them, ensure that the waste remains on the transfer platforms. The average observer of this sector notes that in recent years hundreds of fires occur at these sites of transference. There is, therefore, a difficulty in disposing of a subject that could enter an important economic chain. There is someone who, instead of proposing to make a truly circular economy and to make new raw material-second, proposes new incinerators. I have only spoken to you about economics; clearly I did not even want to urge your imagination on the plastic islands in the oceans and on the fact that these microplastics have entered the food supply chain. We have tabled amendments, one to the tax decree-law and others to the draft budget law, which have been drawn from a bill by Mr Stefano Vignaroli, who recently recorded an excellent consensus and appreciation precisely by Assorimap with a press release of 8 November last, called incentives to promote the dissemination of products derived from post-consumer plastic materials. One of the amendments tabled in the Senate, 11:0.31, at my first signature, although there was a substantial convergence of the majority on this subject, was rejected, although it simply asked for the extension of the facilities on the cost of electricity, already in force for the so-called energy companies of other sectors, to companies that recycle plastic packaging waste. Other measures provided for in the draft law concern the facilitation of tax credit and the creation of a fund for local authorities wishing to purchase in this area and will be submitted with amendments to the draft budget law. At this point, rejecting the amendment to the tax decree, we hope that the convergence which has so far only been expressed orally can be translated in practice, at least in the budget law, by meeting with a favourable opinion for the adoption of these amendments, which are extremely important for our circular economy and for our environment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u54	As has already been said, I am suspending the sitting which will resume at 4.30 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.35 a.m. and resumed at 16.31 a.m.) The session is resumed. He is registered to speak Senator Esposito Stefano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u55	Mr President, I will concentrate on two issues which - in my opinion - are of great importance, contained in the tax decree before us. I would like to say that I really want to thank the rapporteur, Senator Lai, for the work he has done on the final closure of a bad practice, put in place in recent years by telephone companies and by many operators of subscription television services. I am referring to the 28-day or four-week bill which, unfortunately, has produced a significant economic burden on consumers, because, unique in the world, those operators have managed to transform the year from twelve to thirteen months and then issue thirteen bills and request the one-off payment of a thirteenth, of course at the expense of the taxpayer. And above all, I would like to point out that - according to the most prudent estimates - such a practice would have generated a billion profits in the operators' pockets; in some less prudent estimates, it would reach 2 billion per year. I believe that Parliament must be proud of the work it has done on this issue. The Commission and the Government have done well in approving an amendment to my first signature, but I must say that a number of similar proposals have been tabled by many other political groups. I believe that we have given an important response to 30 million users and consumers, and that I believe must be claimed. I know that this has not been a simple game, because there have been many pressures, and even more so, for this reason, I believe that the work of the Commission and the rapporteur, Mr Lai, should be given attention and impartiality, even in the course of the discussions with those involved, who have produced a rule that I consider to be timely. I remind everyone that in the norm one hundred and twenty days are expected for the settlement, that is for the definitive return to normality: bills every month and, therefore, twelve bills at the end of the year. From this measure - it has generated some discussion - the operators of the energy networks, light and gas have been excluded. I only point out that, on the specific sector, the reports of operators who would have used the 28-day or four-week system for the billing in recent months have been very reduced, and we are talking about services that are paid on consumption, and therefore with very reduced impact. Of course, on this side too we expect that the role of the Authorities, which we have established in this country and which have autonomy and certain functions, is very punctual. In this respect, in order to return to the measure approved in the Commission, we recommend that Agcom verify on time that the 120 days are respected. We invite operators not to use all one hundred and twenty days required by the norm, because you can put yourself in order much earlier and return correctness to the relationship with the subscribers. Above all, we ask Agcom - it is the Authority' s competence on this side - to proceed also with reimbursements of what is inappropriately paid - to use euphemism - by millions of users. I believe that I have said almost everything and that I have pointed out the contents of the measure with punctuality. However, I would like to point out - and I take this opportunity of the presence in the Chamber of Deputy Minister Morando - that the Commission has rejected an amendment which would have allowed the city of Rome, in the realization of metro C, not to run the risk of losing resources aimed at the realization of the same metro C. Vice-Minister Morando, I personally consider it inexplicable to reject this amendment which, by not providing for any resources, had no economic impact. As a matter of fact, I know that the Ministry of which you are a representative had given a favourable opinion. The risk is, however, that the rejection will produce by 31 December a loss for the city of Rome of 10 million euros and conditions heavily also the resources allocated for the following financial years. I would like to address my colleague, Mr Lai, even though he has finished his work, and I would also like to take the opportunity to say this to the rapporteur on the draft budget law Magda Zanoni and, above all, to the Government: it would be worth noting whether there is room to recover that text. For the truth, having no particular concerns, I did not propose the amendment that I tabled together with my colleagues in the 5 Star Tavern and Scibona Movement in the budget law. It seemed quite natural to me, having no impact and being a rule that Minister Delrio himself had supported; I did not expect therefore risks of rejection and, for this reason, I did not re-submit it. I recognize my mistake and my limit, but I think it deserves to be recovered. I say with great frankness, not being - as is known - one of the political representatives of my party who has more sympathy with the 5 Star Movement, nor does he enjoy their sympathy, that this is a norm for Rome and concerns everyone. It is a norm for the city and it is not important at this moment who governs it. I therefore appeal to all those who can, by virtue of their role in the budgetary law or as representatives of the Government, find the means to recover this rule which I believe is in the general interest and not in the political interest. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u56	She is registered to speak Senator Zanoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating is consistent with the next measure we are going to tackle, which is the budget law for 2018. The discussion that has taken place in recent days on the tax decree, also in the Commission, has actually produced a lot of material and has already prepared a number of issues that will be discussed precisely in the context of the budget law, so much so that several referrals have been made, partly because they relate to issues that still needed some further study, partly because they required multiannual funding, so it was better to include them in the same budget law. Let me now focus on just some of the contents of the measure: an example of the continuity is the sterilization of the increase in VAT rates for 2018, which is already contained, although in small part, in the tax decree and finds its fulfillment in the budget law. The measure, in Article 5, provides for the partial sterilization of the increases in VAT rates for 2018 by a lower increase in the rate, reduced by 10%, to 11.14 percent instead of 11.5 as foreseen by the 2015 Stability Act. In addition, a similar partial sterilization of the increase in excise duty for the year 2019. Another subject that is referred for the full part to the budget law is that relating to local authorities and regions. Moreover, in the measure we find some interesting elements in favour of local authorities, such as Article 1- bis, which provides for the use of revenue from urbanisation costs for design costs. The article actually solves a problem for local authorities, because, with the approval of an amendment in the referee, it allocates the proceeds of housing permits and building sanctions also to the design costs for public works. And this really solves the problem of the local authorities, who had to keep a sort of rotating fund that was refilled as the works were done, and at that point the design costs were recovered. This solves a technical problem. The measure, then also deals with the theme of luxury buildings. The rule, introduced with the approval of an amendment during the examination in the referent, inserts the buildings of category cadastral A9, which are the castles and palaces of eminent artistic or historical virtues, among those that cannot be recognized as rural properties to tax effects. The same arrangement therefore expunges the reference to those buildings having luxury characteristics. Then there are other important rules, including those that facilitate the custody of cash contracts and in the matter of 5 per thousand, which allow to give facilities to the park agency. I would also like to mention an article which, in general, contains provisions on local authorities and provides for simplifications in the procedures for sites of Community importance, as well as a part concerning collection. All that concerns the issue of financing local authorities, the distribution of funds and failing entities will be the subject of a special study in the budget law. I would like to point out that the measure under consideration provides for urgent financial provisions in its title, but also for unavoidable needs. And I found it particularly significant that the government, among the indisputable needs, has brought in the changes to the legislation on the crime of stalking. And I found it particularly significant because it means that the government realizes the urgency of this matter, linked to the difficulties of women in the face of a really heavy crime committed against them. With the addition put in place by the Government, the financial compensation will no longer be provided to extinguish the crime of stalking, but you will have to go to debate. This is a countermeasure implemented, because with the introduction, last June, of Article 162-b of the new penal code has opened a breach precisely in the matter of stalking, seeming the crime decriminalized through a remedial conduct, in this case of economic type. What seemed a decriminalization of the crime introduced in the Italian legal order in 2009, punished with the imprisonment from six months to four years, therefore needed a clarification so that no further interpretative doubts were born. Even following a recent ruling in the direction of remedial conduct, I believe that the Government has done well to collect an amendment tabled by Senator Lo Moro, which is absolutely identical in its content. Thanks also to the two amendments of the Government and Senator Lo Moro, therefore, the stalking offences can no longer be extinguished through the remedial conducts, even if the accused has repaired entirely through the restitution in compensation and has eliminated, where possible, the harmful or dangerous consequences of the crime, even if there is no acceptance of the person offended and even if the judge recognizes the adequacy of the offer proposed. It will no longer be sufficient to proceed with compensation to get rid of the stalking crime. This is certainly a measure of civilization, which is going to heal a practice that, if it continued to perpetuate itself, would not have fully protected either the dignity, or the rights of the victims of the stalking crime, who, in addition to the damage, would have continued to suffer the mockery of being acquitted of the accused through reparation through a simple economic consideration. I would also like to say a few words about the therapeutic use of medical cannabis, although I believe that other interventions will deepen it. I also think this is an important step which has given the sense of joint work between Parliament and the Government, so much so that the latter has accepted many of the amendments tabled on the subject. Mr President, I would also like to focus on a number of subjects that have been referred back, some of which I particularly care about, because they concern the land from which I come. Firstly, I am referring to an old issue, the flood in Piedmont in 1994, which is dealt with by an amendment particularly requested by local companies and concerns the right to reimbursement of social security contributions and insurance premiums for the three-year period 1995-1997. The Government has given its readiness to do so, but since the amendment involves costs on the budget law, it is likely that a solution can be found. In any case, there is availability in this direction. The other aspect is contained in two amendments concerning forest fires in the Piedmont and Lombardy regions in recent weeks. Again there is the Government's commitment to consider it either in budget law or in other measure, still lacking precise quantification of the damage, since it is relatively recent. That concludes my speech, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Borioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u59	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, in the context of a measure which contains many useful provisions for the country that aim to put it in the best possible condition to intercept the positive dynamics of recovery, which were highlighted to us yesterday, I have the obligation, the duty not pleasant but necessary to exercise, to make a warning. I am referring to one aspect which I believe has brought to the measure and its potential a vulnus which I fear will have a worrying effect on social and employment, if we do not find a way to remedy it in one of the remaining measures still in the field in this legislature, starting with the next budget law. I am referring to an amendment to my first signature, which proposed to amend and rebalance at 60% and 40% the report for the assignments that the motorway concessionaires, in the performance of their duties, are required to carry out: 60% through public evidence tendering procedures and 40% for direct assignments. This amendment proposed this rebalancing by amending the current forecast of the Procurement Code, which sets that ratio at 80% and 20% respectively. I would like to stress that this request for amendment, which - I would like to say this - has been built over the last few weeks through an intense relationship with the representatives of the workers and with the relevant ministries, and in particular with the Ministries of Public Works and Economic Development, does not result from a rethinking of a principle that I have shared with all those who have signed the amendment with me (essentially all the members of the Democratic Party of the 8th Senate Commission). This is the principle of the progressive transparent opening to the market of a system that has remained for too many years oxidized in old logics that need to be brought back to efficiency and transparency. As it is not a rethinking, the problem has arisen, as a result of the concerns and mobilizations put in place by workers over the last few months, and also of the first negative effects on employment in that sector, to temper the principle with an attempt to make it more gradual, through a process that will then have to be monitored and made as incisive as possible. The fact that this amendment has failed to reach approval now - I fear it and God does not want this to happen - risks putting immediately at risk, at a re-acquainted distance, the employment of many workers in this country. And I remember that we are talking about a sector that involves more than 3,000 people all over Italy, 1,000 of whom only in Piedmont, which today are seriously at risk of being hit not only the amount of employment that is produced in that sector, but also the quality. Many of those employees and workers, in fact, have been engaged for some time with permanent contracts and today, even in the quota that could be recovered through the mechanism of the races, without adequate instruments of protection, social protection and driving in the transition from one system to another, they risk to know (those that could be recovered) a path of precariousness. As you well understand, for people with families and a rather significant age, this is a very important social problem. I know that from this point of view reflections have been made and the need for further consideration about the risk that the European Union might call us to greater rigour on a front that undoubtedly deserves and must be brought to greater transparency and efficiency. However, I would like to point out that the 60%-40% percentage has been established in one of the measures of the then Monti Government and, beyond the assessment that we can make on that governmental experience, certainly Mario Monti is not a man who is responsible for a particular inclination to protect lobbying or to counter transparent openness to the market. At this point I make a request in particular to the Government. Having already tabled the same amendment on the basis of the budget law, I would ask that all the details that have probably not been made in this passage, and that perhaps the remaining doubts about the conflict between the correction in question and what the European directives have, should be dealt with because the problem has to be resolved. I am a strong supporter of the need to bring that system to transparency and efficiency in its relationship with the market. But I am also convinced that, when it comes to putting it on the balance as a step that is probably too fast that the system is not able to absorb completely without endangering the employment framework, in the end it risks in those terms to unload its tensions on the front of those who are weaker, that is, workers who, moreover, building over the years a framework of considerable professional skills, see today in difficulty their position. I hope that on this there can be a deepening and verification that will lead to correct the system, or rather the forecast currently written in the code of contracts. I do not suffer from any fetishism and excess of protagonism, but I believe that even with the possible corrections of that amending proposal we can find a solution, taking up again the furrow of the negotiations that have taken place on more than one occasion between the representatives of the workers and of the Government, in the articulations of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, that they have provided to those workers the clear representation of an opening that today is denied. This, of course, rightly feeds the resentment of that sector of work. I hope that the Government, in the successive stages of our legislative work, starting with the budget law on which I have tabled an amendment, will find the space and the way to reconsider the issue and bring to a solution an affair that otherwise - and I do not want us, above all, as a majority in government, to assume such a responsibility - risks producing, on the political initiative of Parliament and the Executive, a damage to employment that I believe at this moment is the last of the products that we want to put on the carpet of Italian society as the work of this legislature. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u60	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say, with great appreciation of the Presidency of this House and also of the Presidency of the Commission and of the rapporteur, that amendment 19.03, with which very quickly there is a solution to a problem that has created discomfort for thousands of families, school managers of institutions, administrative staff and, above all, for parents and students. It is a problem that arises from a judgment of the Supreme Court that has established that the involvement of a minor in an accident outside the school perimeter does not exclude the responsibility of the school. In this particular case, wretched, an eleven - year - old boy had been hit by a scheduled bus on the public road on his way out of school. The judges stated and considered that the compulsory supervision of the school administration was a result of a precise provision of the school's rules: i.e. the school staff had an obligation to bring students and pupils, including those of the middle schools, up and down from the means of transport in front of the school's door. Not only that, if the bus was late, the school staff was responsible for the security. The decision, which for a few weeks blocked the initial stage of the growth of children and girls, had risked creating a problem for families, since they would suddenly have been forced to reconcile their schedules with those of entry and exit from schools, and to the same schools, which would have been forced to ensure supervision and, therefore, to employ part of the staff, who would have been removed from other posts, with objective and easily understandable difficulties. The amendment - as I said earlier - solves the problem by restoring a common sense rule, i.e. only parents can authorise the institutions of the national education system to allow the self-exit of children under 14 years of age from school premises at the end of class hours. The authorization exempts the school staff from the responsibility related to the fulfilment of the obligation of supervision, and extends, even after the solicitation of the municipalities of Italy, also to the eventual service of the school transport. We've served the country well. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u62	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Classical High School "Tito Lucrezio Caro" in Sarno, in the province of Salerno, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u63	Mr President, the tax decree before the House brings with it some very important changes for the country. (17.02) (Following). It contains specific interventions in many sectors, from the economy to credit, fair compensation, safety and health. In my opinion, it is necessary to translate what is contained in the decree-law in order to make it more usable to the audiences and those directly concerned, in order to explain and make them understand what it translates into practice. Senator Lai's report has given an exhaustive picture of the framework in which the measure fits: a positive public finance situation with good levels of growth, with greater security of being able to look to the future improving the conditions of competitiveness, stimulating investment for growth, which is expected to be structural and lasting. We have, therefore, left the tunnel at the beginning of the parliamentary term. We have embarked on what the rapporteur has always called a reversal of course towards a decisive economic recovery which is higher than expected. Ours is one of the best growths in the Member States of the European Union, with imaginable effects on the labour market. The measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises, the re-financing of the guarantee fund, the refinancing of the employment fund, the issue of pensions and the regulation of cannabis for therapeutic purposes - a widely debated issue, which has seen an amendment by the Government - are some of the most significant measures. Without going into the complex details of the article, I would like to dwell, in the short time allowed to me - and I will reduce it again, since the previous one has already dealt in part with the subject in a complex way - on some important changes that the measure introduces for students and families. In particular, I think it is very important to intervene on the current rule that provides, on a parliamentary initiative, for the deduction of rents for university students living over 100 kilometres in another province. The decree-law implements an amendment, with the reduction of this distance, bringing it to 50 kilometers for those who reside in mountainous and disadvantaged areas, and eliminates a constraint, the provincial one, a bond really to be overcome, considering the 100 kilometers a general and universal constraint, beyond the Province of belonging. It is a very significant demonstration of attention to outside students, who have been waiting for many years. The second amendment was presented earlier, but I would like to go further. The problem had been unresolved for decades, the result of litigation, of very close topicality. This is the question referred to Senator Marcucci, concerning the exit of children under 14 years of age from schools, which emerged following the recent judgment of the Court of Cassation. It is expected - as has already been explained - the possibility, for exhibitors the parental responsibility, to allow the independent exit of their children from the school complexes and to take advantage, always independently, of the services of school transport, exempting, through a release, the school staff from the responsibility of supervision. I have just taken up this issue, which has already been explained, because I would like to highlight the importance of the amendment, recalling that there have been more than one dispute and more than one tragedy, of which I have also witnessed. I remember in particular the tragedy that occurred at the exit of a school in my city, Gorizia, on October 10, 2000. Giò Schilirò, a nine-year-old son of a teacher from my institute, was hit by a school bus on October 10, 2000 at the school's exit: a tragic and painful story for the family of Giò and dramatic for its general implications. There were convictions: the teacher settled eight months in prison with the parole and charged herself with not having adequately monitored the children at the school's exit (two sentences). Finally, a word of clarity has been uttered on a thorny theme, which has seen responsibilities and shadow areas draped for years very often the garrisons write circulars on circulars, to try to regulate a matter of magmatic fact. This is finally the time to put an end to a dramatic problem, and the shadow areas will finally be illuminated. It is a further service that this legislature has rendered to the school and to the family, for a good interrelationship between the fundamental components of our social. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Silvestro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u64	Mr President, before I speak on this draft law, I would like to express a great deal of appreciation for what has been done by the Commissions and the rapporteur, Senator Lai. I would like to comment on an article which seeks to include in the original text, precisely on Article 19-a, which concerns fair compensation and unfair terms. Two very important and relevant points have been included in this article for health and the positive impact they will have on public administration. The first point provides that the provisions of Article 13- bis of Law n. 247 of 31 December 2012, apply, as compatible, also to the services rendered by the professionals referred to in Article 1 of Law n. 81 of 22 May 2017, and, therefore, to health professionals, also enrolled in orders and colleges, whose parameters are defined by the ministerial decrees adopted pursuant to Article 9 of Decree-Law n. 1 of 24 January 2012, converted with amendments in Law n. 27 of 24 March 2012. This openness, as I mentioned, is considered very important - and it really is - because it makes the work of many health professionals who work as freelancers in the conventional relationships that concern the conduct, even in association or corporate form, of the activities of care, assistance and rehabilitation. The fair compensation, in the definition that has been included in Article 19-a, which is considered to be such when it is proportionate to the quantity and quality of the work carried out, as well as to the content and characteristics of the health care and rehabilitation benefits, is very positive and straight many conflicting and critical situations. In particular, the provisions set out in paragraph 4 of Article 13-a, according to which the clauses contained in the conventions which determine, even because of the unfairness of the agreed compensation, a significant contractual imbalance on the part of the healthcare professional, are considered to be vexatory. Now, the issue, as set out, is positively resolved through the inclusion of this article 19-a and the additional points inserted later, which allow you to use the rules related to fair compensation also in the health sector and which concern a significant number of professionals. I would like to give just one example, without wishing to broaden the consideration, concerning the more than 30,000-35,000 freelance nurses who greatly appreciate this definition; but above all, in addition to the freelance professionals, I am thinking of the users of the performance of these professionals (infirmaries, rehabilitation technicians, health technicians of different qualifications and functions, who provide their health care services directly to the citizens), who will be able to rely on a structured care approach with effectiveness and appropriateness and within a time range that is attentive to the personalization of the care and therefore to the needs and needs of the caregivers. The benefits will no longer have to take into account a minimal time range, with a very small compensation, even, at times, below any possible practical consideration, which affects the welfare performance, making it ineffective, inappropriate and aimed only at the use of the shortest possible time to try to stay inside a compensation that is not fair. In fact, it is known that, in order to guarantee the care and assistance services, without prejudice to the assumptions, many companies and health structures, especially private ones, use professionals regulated by conventional relationships for the performance of extremely delicate services, which are seen, therefore, poorly defined and poorly compensated compared to the services they perform. We bear in mind that a large part of the health structures, especially the private and private one, use these forms of professional bond and professional convention precisely to bypass the constraints related to the assumptional norms, which have significantly impoverished the structures of the public health service, as well as those of private health; but not only: socio-health and welfare structures as well. Therefore, I applaud the fact that, through this measure, health professionals are open to health professionals, but I do not forget that in this situation there are also many social workers: social workers, professional educators and all those who are - let me say - the supporting structure, the nerve, of our health service and socio-assistant, which is addressed directly to the citizens. I therefore believe that through the inclusion of Article 19-a and, above all, of this openness, which no longer only concerns lawyers, but also all other professionals, an extremely positive action has been taken towards citizens, which will be greatly appreciated by all professionals. I would therefore like to thank the Commission, the rapporteur and you, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u65	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u66	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the 5th Commission and the Government for their great work on a decree-law of extraordinary importance, in my opinion. For the first time we are beginning to put the tax game into order with all the measures and the structure of the interventions in our country, I must say with satisfaction, also in the field of welfare. That was not obvious. As my colleagues and the rapporteur, Mr Lai, have already said, our country is recovering, GDP is growing; there is, in general, a recovery and I agree with President Gentiloni Silveri that we must not waste it at all, but capitalize it in interventions not necessarily of a direct monetary character, but also through the tax lever. The main points of intervention have been very well stated in this morning's report. I would like to focus in particular on health issues, which I am dealing with. The fact that we also have a favourable context with regard to the government deficit under control allows us and has allowed us to open up to certain issues that have been mentioned by us and on which we have worked for the whole five years. Alongside this, it must also be said that perhaps, at this point, a little tenacity has been rewarded. I want to start by expressing my satisfaction at the amendment recognising the detrailability of food for special purposes; a point of great importance and innovation for several reasons. First of all, for a reason of merit. Foods for special medical purposes are used for very serious and neurodegenerative diseases in particular; I am thinking of amiotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. This is a range of pathologies and diseases that are always very difficult to deal with, if not in strictly charitable terms. In this case we recognize a therapeutic dignity to these foods and, at the same time, the dignity and right of these people to have a proper diet. You know that dysphagia is a terrible disease; this dysfunction does not allow you to swallow. Try not to swallow once; it is a terrible thing and it is in particular in the terminal stages of existence. All this part is included in the tax relief. I agree with the Government that this is done experimentally because there is a problem of understanding also the audience and the effects. There are absolutely no problems, but I mean that in addition to the strictly economic and fiscal signal, I see an ethical signal of extraordinary importance and recognition of food as a drug; a drug that is not simply a commercial product, but has an ethical finalization. This is very important at this complicated stage of the National Health Service. If we link this aspect to the essential levels of care, we have a virtuous combination, which allows interventions that, I hope, can be carried out throughout the national territory in a homogeneous way, alongside individual interventions and therefore the possibility of the individual person, the individual patient and the individual patient to be able to act on the tax lever to assert his right. Is this little? Is that a lot? I think it's amazing, and I think we all have to go really, really proud. If we tie this element to the other important work on neurosciences (not only adrotherapy, but - in general - neurosciences), always present in another amendment, we put ourselves a bit at the forefront, because the themes of neurodegenerative diseases are always those that are most afraid and on which it is always difficult to intervene. In this case, we have opened a very important track with the Government and I hope that we can move forward in this direction also with regard to a further increase in research (we will then have the draft budget law that will complete this path). The second element of satisfaction is that we have had a debate in this House on the legalisation of cannabis, i.e. on the possibility of sufficient therapeutic use of cannabis. (The legalization of therapeutic cannabis was already foreseen in a previous bill.) We know that there are important problems that we have discussed in this House. The first major problem is that it is a drug and, therefore, as such it must be subjected to all the safety routes that the drug requires. That is why the work done by the other branch of Parliament has enabled us to put in place an intervention which is very important for two reasons in this tax delegation. First of all, the sick in this country have the right to the therapeutic use of cannabis, because we would never want to think that they should go and get it illegally somewhere. Therefore, it is right and sacrosanct that, in maximum safety, we can proceed in this direction. Secondly, it is important that, as a Parliament, we have incorporated the Government's amendment, adding another possibility to entrusting the Florence military pharmaceutical chemical plant with the cultivation of cannabis for therapeutic use. We very much supported this institution when it was about to close and we received its representatives at the hearing. Deputy Minister Morando will remember that three years ago, when he was about to be closed, we were there and we supported him. We also gave him this competence, which is objectively very important. However, the institute is unable to produce to meet all the needs and, then, rather than go abroad for expensive inflorescences, I believe that - the amendment has been approved and is now part of the text of the measure - it is possible to identify - and in this country there are - other producers of cannabis for therapeutic use, under the control of AIFA and according to GMP criteria, accredited internationally. I say this because very often we throw away our money. Vice Minister Morando, it is not deluded to be so forever, but on this I make a small self-criticism - indeed, a criticism - to the Health Service, because, because of the fear of then having points of illegality, we purchase at very high prices the inflorescence of cannabis that we could produce quietly being our, as you know, a country that has nothing to envy Holland, much less Canada as far as the sun is concerned. So the point is not whether you grow or not, but whether there are guarantees of safety that this is an effective and official supply chain of the drug. I think we're going in this direction and it's very important. I would also like to point out three points which I consider important for the debate. The first is about fair compensation: Senator Silvestro had already said so and it seems to me an important recognition for the professions. I would also like to take this opportunity to hope that very soon the delegation to the Government, at the third reading to the Senate, which recognizes the health professions, which we need to prevent health abuse and to recognize the professional dignity of these people, also in the field of health. The fair compensation is also this: to avoid that professionalism of high level or however established are then treated in an odd way in the passage between public to private and in the different situations of this country. Fair compensation remains one of the points of reference. The second point I would like to mention is the amendment we tabled on the Red Cross. This is an important debate and I simply want to point out that our position is not biased against anything, but we wanted to point out problems which objectively exist in a transitional phase of the Red Cross model. I maintain my views and I hope that there will be very careful monitoring of the assets, the future of the staff and the type of intervention that such an important body carries out in the world. The government has had another position and I take note of it very quietly. The last issue, which concerns the Health and Health Commission and, in any case, the health sector, is apparently not directly linked to health, but is actually very close: I am referring to the issue of funeral activities. We have for a long time in the Commission a bill to reorder funeral activities in our country. There is a very great problem of fairness and transparency about fundamental activities, which are now entrepreneurial, even at a certain level, which require transparency and clarity of rules and also that citizens may not feel overburdened at such a tragic time, such as the disappearance of a loved one. We tried to table an amendment, but there was no possibility of intervening in the measure in our examination, in order to tax some of the funeral expenses. It is what is commonly called the "extinct dear," although unfortunately, in this country, not to worry about the concrete problems of people, there is little irony to do. So I hope that in the budget law we can find at least one area that will allow us to achieve a reform of the whole system, which is very much needed from a health and business point of view and from the point of view of fair relations with citizens. I want to end my speech with a wish to the Government, which I support and therefore also what I like a little less I accept the same, because I think it is very important that the Government can go on and finish a truly extraordinary job. The hope is that we will always succeed, as the rapporteur, the President of the Commission, and I believe the Commission, in all this difficult work, in giving a human interpretation of the tax side as well. Money is very important, budgets are very important, but one must know that when working for the common good, budgets are at the service of improving people's living conditions and, therefore, of an attention and an idea of civil coexistence that is most needed in this period. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Micheloni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u68	Mr President, I am speaking to clarify some of the statements that appeared in the press today in a somewhat strange way. For once the press dealt with the foreign college on an amendment, but using words such as "sanatoria", "condono", "scudo". I therefore believe that it would be useful to clarify what this House is about. Finally, the Government has defined the legal status of ex-emigrants, and ex-borders, citizens who have worked for a period abroad, enrolled in AIRE, who have returned to Italy, and have become, because of a "side damage" in the voluntary denunciation of capital held abroad, the evaders. We must know that in Northern Europe part of the pension is often paid out in the form of capital and not in monthly instalments; well, many of our workers who have returned have left small sums of this capital in the Swiss and German banks. Moreover, we are also talking about a period prior to the euro, so we can understand why perhaps the Swiss franc is more interesting than other currencies. All of a sudden, with the voluntary statement, they became evaders. As a matter of fact, we Senators from the foreign college had pointed out this problem during the discussion of the voluntary complaint, but we were not heard at that time. I would like to do something irrational here, not political; I would like to thank the people, as a demonstration that in the Government itself the ability to listen to one component or another can lead to a solution or no solution. I would like to thank the Commission as a whole, because I understand that everyone has agreed to the amendment, Mr Tonini, Mr Morando. I cannot likewise thank the government representative who, when we went to explain that this "side damage" would occur, showed no listening ability. It is about requalifying those citizens, whom we ourselves have made evaders, citizens who are absolutely honest. Thus, words such as "scudo", "sanatoria" or "condono", although technically similar to this, have absolutely nothing to do with it. However, I must also take this opportunity to leave to the proceedings of this House that one problem remains, Deputy Minister. The amendment completely solves the problem of those who have already returned to Italy or will come back from here to 31 July 2018. I understand the reformulation of the Government: it was necessary to regulate the people who are already in Italy, but - let me tell you a little jokingly - considering that I hope to finish my life in Abruzzo, if I go back in 2019, already today I know that I will return to tax evader. This must be clarified by a structural rule after this passage; I would simply like this to remain in the act, and that in the next parliamentary term, if it is not possible to do so now, it should be clarified definitively. Mr President, two other points have not been resolved at this stage; I hope that the draft budget will be dealt with. One indirectly concerns the Italian community abroad. I'm talking about patrons. We have significantly reduced funding to patrons in recent years by creating liquidity problems for them. So we made a proposal, Deputy Minister, to increase the down payment. I can understand that this leads to a need for additional cash, but the overall state budget does not increase by one euro. So, an effort to give them a higher deposit, in order at least to relieve them of bank costs, I think it is necessary. I have made a report that raises problems in the functioning of patrons abroad, but they are important institutions for our communities. I hope that the Ministry of Labour will read the report that the Committee on Italian Affairs has drawn up and put to work to reform the patrons. I also hope that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not start to make conventions, as it is announcing at this pre-election stage, because they could be misinterpreted, given the rumors about the influence that patrons can have in the political elections. So the patrons must be reformed and revised, but above all they must be put in a position to operate. I appeal here for a positive response in the law of stability to the legitimate request that comes from the patrons. The last very specific point, dear Deputy Minister, which I would like to mention here is the need to definitively correct a retroactive tax rule that we introduced with the decree saves Italy three years ago: an absolutely incorrect rule, for which the Italian courts are condemning us, that we have never managed to correct and has already led to the death of small companies, made by Italians abroad, who had as their main responsibility that of promoting tourism towards Italy. They are already in cassation and will probably win, but that sentence will arrive "to dead father," as they say, and I think it is a minimum duty on our part to correct the norm. Dear Deputy Minister, I thanked you earlier and thank you again, because I know that you no longer want to hear a word about this. He had the ability to listen and I know his commitment to the Ministry, and therefore we really count on a solution in this law of stability. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Filippi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u69	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give priority to Article 2 of the measure, namely the measures envisaged to partially relieve the people affected by the Livorno flood on 9 September. It may seem like a detail, but I think it is important to intervene, because in the night work last night in the Commission I think there has been some confusion which, in my opinion, is necessarily to be corrected: it is the benefits of suspension - I stress of suspension - of the terms of the payments and of the tax obligations which expire in the period between 9 September and 30 September 2017. There is talk of suspension and not of course of exemption, i.e. that the lack of revenue for 2017 is recovered in the following year. In technical terms it is a deferment of collection. In the table attached to the impact analysis measure it is correctly reported that the 55 million assumed by the impact of the measure, estimated in my opinion for excess for 2017, are obviously suspended in 2018. The measure contained an original vice to paragraph 5 which had to be corrected, i.e. the limitation of the application of the rule to the city of Livorno alone and to the residents only who were in possession of a declaration of inadmissibility of their home, inadmissibility recognized by the competent authority. The measure thus formulated limited the intervention to 35 persons. Paradoxically - this is the aspect on which the disorder was determined - for the neighboring municipalities of Collesalvetti and Rosignano, touched more marginally by the event, the same measure was extended indiscriminately to all residents. The measure was unfairly unbalanced, but unfortunately the remedy was worse than the evil. In fact, the intervention of paragraph 3-a, introduced by an amendment approved in the Commission, instead of balancing the measure, extended the criterion, originally foreseen for the municipality of Livorno, also to the borders of Collesalvetti and Rosignano, in fact frustrating the whole measure, restricting it to only 35 people in Livorno. I would like, Vice-Minister, rapporteur, to make it clear: the damage in the city, in the City of Livorno, has been very large and widespread, although they have not necessarily produced inagibility in homes and industries. The most appropriate wording, then, which seemed to me to have been somewhat shared, was that the suspension referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, therefore for all three municipalities, was granted to those who had suffered serious damage found and established from the list prepared by the Commissioner for the emergency and on the basis of the communications of the Department of Civil Protection. It was basically a measure of rebalancing in these terms. I repeat that I would very much like the rapporteur and the government to give me a brief reply to this. Clearly, even for the role that I immersely play, I would say that in the minutes that remain, however, I would also like to speak on the measures and interventions provided for by this link related to transport policies and I must say, Mr Vice-Minister, really expressing a sincere and convinced appreciation, starting with Article 12, of which I did not feel that there was any mention in the general discussion. I am, of course, referring to the measure concerning Alitalia, a measure of great intelligence and political foresight in my view, for a number of reasons which I would like to outline briefly. Firstly, because it stabilizes the present, very delicate situation that compared to the past - I would like to stress - is certainly less serious and more interesting, with new things that I want to mention. Firstly, there is finally a competent and serious management. Under the guidance of Dr. Gubitosi, contrary to what has happened in the past even recently (I refer to the many experiences that have followed, from the "courageous captains" to the French, to the Arabs) it seems to me that objectively it is being done seriously, that is, we intervene on the structure of Alitalia, modifying the contracts in existence and determining savings that we have signaled absolutely opportune for some time. In fact, until just a few weeks ago, the 600 million of the loan had not even been affected (600 million which had been allocated in May, which were rightly extended again for six months and of which only 50 million were affected). This measure assigns another 300, precisely to eliminate that element of embarrassment and precariousness that could result. In order to understand also the delicate and interesting situation - not delicate and serious - that we have recorded, in recent months, together with the public opinion, also the difficulties that the low cost companies are going through and I believe that this aspect can allow to look at them in a new way, overcoming a certain strabismo that the policies of government at all levels have had for the low cost companies, because in many cases they have determined fortune and development of minor ports of call in the territories, but obviously also with indirect contributions absolutely not adequately competitive for a correct relationship between the low cost companies and the others. These two aspects - a competent and serious management, which has put its hands properly on Alitalia's structure for the first time, also negotiating capestro contracts and producing savings, in conjunction with the difficulties of low cost companies - have determined not by chance also new offers both from American subjects and the renewal of offers from the German companies. I would say that this measure has above all intelligence and political foresight, because it removes a great alibi that somehow hanged over the next - but already ongoing - election campaign. I believe that this intervention has certainly helped to avoid the repetition of the election campaign of 2008, when the "courageous captains" were launched and when, with boyhood, it was thought to solve a very delicate, serious and important crisis for the country's structural assets. I would add that on Alitalia the important thing is to do well, and don't make it soon; because at this stage to do quickly or do so much to do can only involve hurting. Finally, I would really like to congratulate the Commission and the Government on the work that has been done at night on other measures, with the additional amendments adopted. As I read in the Report, there is an amendment of great value at this stage, that on territorial continuity, because it is expected that for the cease-fires that take over the routes burdened by the rules of service will be assumed the same conditions. It is a measure that looks to Sardinia, but also to all areas of suffering. Also on airports and airport infrastructures it is essentially expected that the concessionaire in expiry of concession and able to intervene with the necessary investments should not be forced not to intervene because perhaps they cannot be recognized. These are minimum measures that go through silently, but which, in my opinion, really have the function of freeing up private resources for public investment. I am really closing, Mr President - and I apologise if I have taken a few more seconds - to also point out the amendment on rail and maritime safety. This House has had discussions in the past on rail accidents, for example on the one in Puglia. Well, this very well-structured, very important and very serious measure not only allocates resources but provides for the intensification of controls, the recruitment of staff with regard to the National Railway Safety Agency, intervenes in a temporalisation that makes the allocated resources credible and also provides for verification checks with appropriate sanctions. All this makes me say that the congratulations I expressed and the appreciations were not in fashion and facade, but were absolutely convinced for measures that really go in the right and proper direction. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u71	Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before carrying out general assessments, I would like to enter immediately on a specific subject which is very close to my heart and to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in Forza Italia. The data leaves no room for interpretation. The freelance professionals and self-employed in Italy are 1.3 million and represent by number and wealth produced definitely an indispensable category for the growth of the entire country. Unfortunately, in Italy, however, the autonomous initiative in the field of work is not adequately supported, but on the contrary it is often hindered by the State. These obstacles - alas - must be removed as soon as possible, starting from the excessive tax burden and the asphyxiating bureaucratic web that unfortunately grabs companies. In addition, with regard to the measure in our examination, we have fought with specific amendments to introduce fair compensation, because it is in the same interest of citizens to be supported by competent and qualified professionals, while the downward race of the cost of services surely also reduces the quality of the services offered and, consequently, the satisfaction of the citizens. This issue was initially removed from the maneuver, but we insisted that it be dealt with because it is of such importance that it cannot be implied. We note with satisfaction that the Government has recognized in the Budget Committee the validity of our arguments, including an amendment to introduce fair compensation, but unfortunately the satisfaction is only partial because, if we had moved in time, we could have improved the text from now on so that it could fully meet the legitimate expectations of all professional and non-professional orders. Returning to a more general level, the budget maneuver landed at the Senate contains several elements that deserve at least an in-depth analysis. The first certainly has to do with the numbers, i.e. the overall size of the measures envisaged: we have seen that, out of a total of approximately EUR 21 billion, 14.9 billion are destined once again to avoid the application of the VAT increases imposed by Europe to ensure that public accounts are kept. As is well known, due to the commitments made by our country in Europe, the so-called safeguard clauses have long been introduced to guarantee the respect of the return path of our public accounts. The heavier clauses relate precisely to the automatic increase in VAT to allow the State to have more revenue and can only be neutralized by other appropriate measures. This year, in fact, almost EUR 15 billion of higher revenue and lower expenditure is intended only to comply with an accounting obligation, the result of the Europe agreements, but of which there are now no reasons, as observed by several economists. Today we are debating a maneuver which, as a whole, is in serious danger of jeopardising the timid signs of recovery in our economy. I'm talking shy signals, not a lack of optimism. If I weren't optimistic I couldn't be an entrepreneur, because doing business in Italy is almost a heroic gesture, given the taxation and bureaucracy that must be endured. These are the numbers that speak clearly: Italy has wasted the economic recovery that has affected the whole of Europe. According to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), GDP in Europe will increase by 2.4% in 2017, while in Italy only 1.5%. This is going to get worse in the next year, because it is expected to increase Italian GDP by 1.1%, while European GDP is going to be +2.1%. We are and remain more and more taillights in Europe. Our economy is the weakest, unequivocal sign of the ineffective policy of the central-left governments of these years. So let's ask ourselves: does today's state of health of the eurozone economy and that of our accounts justify a maneuver like the one presented today by the government? Ladies and gentlemen, to examine this maneuver, it seems to be largely nothing more than a heavy round of rounds, in which an increase in VAT imposed by Europe is prevented by real cuts, but it risks not satisfying the judgement of the European Union itself, as the Vice President of the European Commission said yesterday: it is clear, in fact, that 15 billion out of 21 will certainly not produce positive effects. I would now like to focus briefly on what is left, after the 15 billion euros already mentioned, and once again I ask myself and ask you a question: what choices can be made in the field of economic policy, since the real part of the maneuver is less than 6 billion? It seems to me all too obvious that, in the light of these numbers, making significant choices, able to give back momentum to the country system, is almost impossible, especially since almost half of the amount actually allocated (about 3 billion euros) is aimed at renewing the contract of civil servants. Scrolling through the 120 articles that compose the text of the maneuver, I did not find a single significant reflection on the fiscal issues, while in the tax decree related to it the only relevant data is yet another postponement of a billion increases in VAT, recovering additional revenue. But it is only a delay, which means leaving - alas - this sword of Damocles on the head of those who come after. On the other hand, the policy of rain bonuses is perpetuated, with criteria that sometimes escape any logic. We then have the enlargement of the audience of the beneficiaries of the 80 euros, the inclusion of the bonus for bus tickets, regional trains and metro, the extension of the cultural bonus for eighteen-year-olds, the ecobonus for building renovations, the bonus gardens, the 19-percent discount on anti-calamity policies on the first house and more bonuses. On the one hand, therefore, we postpone the solution of essential problems, preferring to leave it to posterity, such as the increase in VAT; on the other, we insist on one-off measures, drawing money from general taxation. Leaving aside for a moment the dubious effectiveness of such interventions, this also confronts us with a clear contradiction, because general taxation should give priority to structural interventions and above all to respect the constitutional principle of progressiveness, so that the public benefits should be addressed to the socially weaker and uncoated groups in a uniform way over the entire audience of the population. Of course, no one here misses the reason for these choices: it is certainly easier to distribute money in rain, than to develop more targeted socio-economic support policies and certainly guarantees greater political visibility, especially as the election campaign approaches. However, the institutions are not called upon to do this. Even when the right measures have been introduced, such as the refinancing of the tax credit for companies, the resources have appeared insufficient to us, especially in the South, if we think that the funds allocated to industry 4.0 are only 10% of the 14 billion allocated to companies throughout the nation. I ask the government: what about the promises of cutting the tax wedge and the other interventions announced to make the payrolls of workers heavier and less costly stable hiring? Also for these reasons, and I conclude, the 2018 maneuver and the related tax decree impose a mortgage on the future of this country, for which the majority of this Parliament assumes all responsibility. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u72	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Cavour" in Catania, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u73	Mr President, I am speaking in the general debate on the decree-law linked to the budget law first of all to point out a fact that appears to be of solar evidence: this decree-law, which in the announcements and government proclamations should have first of all concerned the long-standing question of sterilization of safeguard clauses, i.e. the finding of resources to prevent the raising of VAT rates, contains only a timid mention of this because, in fact, the matter is being referred back to the budgetary law. The measure is clearly shared, but the question arises spontaneously: then why was this decree-law issued? In the norms submitted to our examination there is no repentance of necessity and urgency and the homogeneity, requirement of every decree-law, is clearly non-existent. The simple truth is that you have assumed the responsibility of issuing a decree-law that contains only your urgency and those of the political parties that support you. I am referring, for example, to the rule establishing the extension for the transfer of the business complexes belonging to Alitalia, from 30 April 2018 to 30 September 2018. The underlying philosophy is: delayed problem, half solved. Above all, we spend other public money, as much as 300 million euros, far too much, but much pants pay. And Pantalone is represented by all those vexed citizens who pull the car for everyone and can no longer. All this takes place in order to allow a kind of business courtship between those who claim to want to buy and those who have to sell. It is necessary to guarantee the continuity of the air transport service until the actual transfer of the business complexes, but, from delay to delay, Alitalia will never be sold in times I do not say fast, but not even reasonable, subtracting important resources for other public services equally necessary. Alternatively, further taxation will be necessary. In both cases, citizens will know how to thank you: with the vote. Who is the cause of his evil, let him weep for himself. This country can't afford any more taxes. The Court of Auditors, centers of international economic studies and all people of common sense underline how our country discounts an excessive tax burden. The OECD ranks Italy fifth among the European countries for taxation per individual taxpayer and we are on the podium, in third place, for single-income families. This condition certainly does not allow families, especially those most exposed to the economic crisis, those most in need, to have rosy hopes in the future and without families we will not have a future. You have turned tax agencies into profit-making agencies that work on commission (0,823 percent of the revenue collection for the Revenue Agency and 1,338 percent of the revenue for the Customs and Monopolies Agency), while we are talking about public administration and not a private company. Where is the third party to guarantee the taxpayer citizen? A public administration must cover expenses and not generate profits. Italy is a country where certain private companies dump their risk of enterprise on citizens and where public administration makes profits by cashing on the citizen as if it were a private company. As far as taxation is concerned, we have succeeded in applying, in spite of every constitutional principle, taxes, see VAT applied to TIA, therefore VAT applied to taxes, as well as to tariffs. We can well understand that the citizen is not seen as a user to make a useful and dignified service, but as a lemon to be squeezed. And, just like a squeezed lemon can no longer give juice: a vexed citizen then also leads the State to a period of dryness. They'll tell me I'm going to make it easy, of course. Let's say that for me this is the only way to try to understand concretely what appears smoky, twisted, meaningless and, to look at it, detrimental to everyone. Probably, the only real urgency of the Government was to exercise the so-called golden power on Telecom Italia. Unfortunately, the beautiful country has become a land of conquest for foreign investors. Our best companies, those that have made us great and famous in the world (also thanks to the brand made in Italy, which is the third in importance in the world), too many times are no longer our property. I leave out more general considerations on the need to regulate the times of wild globalisation and the freedom of enterprise, in order to focus on strategic enterprises. Certainly the incumbent presence of Vivendi, now a majority shareholder of Telecom, has been decisive for the enactment of this decree-law. More than extending the golden power, the competent minister would have had to protect the country from the risks, separating Sparkle, the branch of company that owns the infrastructural network (to understand us, the one that owns the property of the submarine cables that guarantee our communications and that connect Italy to the rest of the world), and Telti, the company that provides software services thanks to which sensitive communications are produced also between government bodies. This decree-law, more than motivated by urgency, is in a hurry for the long time lost, since the necessary to be done was known for a long time. In society 4.0, industry 4.0 and culture 4.0, we cannot lose control of networks. The ownership of networks must remain a natural monopoly of the State and guarantee fundamental common interests. A fair, due and awaited measure, already discussed in the Commission work and deposited by me on 8 March, but - forgive the immodest - much more organic, structured, accomplished, signed by the whole Federation of Freedom Group, the fair compensation reaffirms the dignity of the free professionals. This is a question of respect for skills and professionalism, of a proper alignment of the law with the principles of equality and universality between all professional categories. Workers to be protected in particular in the case of commissions to be made to so-called strong contractors, starting with public administrations. A measure that surrounds the downward war of professional parcels, protects the quality of the provision of the service rendered, as well as the transparency and adequacy of the cost for the client. It was said many times, but you moved only after the demonstrations in the square. You brought out the populism that is in you. Well, such an important rule would have deserved more time, more decantation and ripening, as Mr Lai himself admitted. An important norm made in carlona, even if there would be a more colorful way to say it (and remove). I am smiling about the criterion of homogeneity, because not only has the text been fired by the Government in a completely uneven way, but the usual practice of including non-homogeneous amendments in the Commission has come to an even worse conclusion. In this way, this decree-law has also become yet another omnibus provision, with the spirit of the thousand-pronges in an electoral perspective. You've put everything in it, even the rules that allow the kids to go home on their own, rules that should never even have been hypothesized. I am also referring to Article 19 on the long-awaited liberalisation of the copyright market through the full implementation of Directive 2014/26/EU. On this subject the Government has reiterated an endless series of no, despite the numerous acts of inspection union, the amendments proposed across the board and the approved agendas. A no, it was said, is permitted by EU legislation, which is fully legitimate. A directive, which had to be transposed by 2016. We have been doing this because, according to Minister Franceschini, we needed to reflect more on the correct transposition. And so, temptingly, because you don't have the courage to deal seriously with the problems and solve them, on May 30, 2016, we were notified of the initiation of an infringement procedure. The pole of discord is Article 5 of the Barnier Directive, the right to freely choose the collective management organisation to which they entrust the management of their works. Even the Competition and Market Authority, on 10 June 2016, made a number of comments aimed at a more coherent transposition of the Directive, calling for the intervention of liberalisation supplemented by a comprehensive reform of the modalities of mediation of rights outlined by the Copyright Act, reviewing the role and function of the SIAE. Nothing at all. It was decided to keep Article 180 of the Copyright Act alive, leaving the monopoly of SIAE intact. The answer to all these demands was, more or less indirectly: the monopoly is not touched because Europe does not ask for it. Too bad, then, Minister Franceschini and Undersecretary Gozi, in the splendid setting of the Venice Film Festival, were asked by the European Commissioner for Economics and Digital Society Gabriel for further efforts to ensure greater liberalisation. That's silly. You have created such a confusion that the people between this chaos and what could be produced by an improvised blunder no longer understand the difference. Who is the cause of his evil, let him weep for himself. You like carriages too much, they're part of your DNA. The complications are the normality of your proceeding, as happened in the earthquake, where good things end without success: 6 decrees-laws with stability, 41 ordinances and now serve the guidelines. Result? Nothing. A to be to be between Ceriscioli and the Commissioner for the De Micheli earthquake, which will bring nothing. In the Marches we have a President who simply smiles unnecessarily. You anticipated EUR 700 million of the European Union's billion: unservable, such as giving bread and removing teeth. Also because you are the office complication simple things, you have rejected an amendment that proposed a sanatoria of the Bonari notices to the Revenue Agency. Simple common sense, in harmony with the breaking of folders, yet another test of the nine on how little common sense and no logic reigns in these usual Aules. Get used to using an isolated neuron at a time, such as the sodium particle in Lete water, such as Orlando who had applied fair compensation to lawyers alone without sharing it with other professions. Yet synapses are the highways of knowledge, experience, and wisdom that you show you don't have. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator. FUCKSIA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). I'll finish. A country that wants to grow must look at the countries that are already growing, like Spain and Ireland, where there are futures and jobs thanks to the reliability of the budget. There are futures, limited debts and reforms. This sentence is not mine, it is Manfred Weber's, the one who told Renzi not to cry and hoped for the electoral victory of Berlusconi. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u74	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the fiscal decree linked to the budget law allows a report to be made at the end of the parliamentary term of the policies of this majority, increasingly torn apart by internal clashes. The rapporteur, Mr Lai, whom I thank for the long and intense work he has done in the Commission, in this morning's report obviously, as Senator of the PD, praised the policy, the economic policies put in place by the Renziloni Government and the two who preceded it (Letta and then Renzi). He spoke of a reversal of course, of the country's greater competitiveness, of economic equilibrium in the public finances. Well, I would like to remind you that this is not the case. The more than 7.5 million Italians in a state of deprivation know this, of which 4.5 million in absolute poverty; Italians know it - more and more - who give up treatment because they do not have money for medicines and to do the exams; the many unemployed, especially the many young people, who do not find work, also because more and more economic activities close for the crisis and, sometimes, also for the excess of credit towards the public administration, who do not pay. Speaking of which, we are still waiting for Renzi to walk up Mount Senario, since he has sunk the umpteenth promise. The many, many Italians know, over 120,000 a year, mostly young graduates and graduates, who, not seeing prospects, prefer to emigrate abroad, maybe to be waiters in London or Paris. No, things aren't going well at all! And this despite the favourable European and world context: the quantitative easing of Draghi, the low interest in the cost of money and the low cost of oil. We grow, but little and to a much lesser extent than the other countries of Europe. Only Greece is worse than us. Today's ISTAT data also show this: labour productivity fell by 1% during 2016, following increases in previous years. The gap between our unemployment and the EU average is also increasing. And what about our public debt? In September it recorded 2,283.7 billion, plus 177 billion compared to February 2014, the month in which Renzi was installed as head of the Government. On the other hand, that we are in difficulty it is certified by the lean numbers of the budget law: three quarters of the maneuver of just over 20 billion will be used to neutralize the safeguard clauses introduced by the Letta Government, that is to avoid a catastrophic increase in VAT. There are very few investments, not only for new infrastructure, but also for maintenance. There are few measures for growth, combating poverty and supporting families. And what about the covers? The savings deriving from the spending review are 3.5 billion euros, which will result in other linear cuts to Regions, and above all, to the Municipalities; 5 billion are previewed by the fight against tax evasion, but here there is however a huge absolute uncertainty, as the Court of Auditors and the Parliamentary Bureau have rightly pointed out; and then, to conclude the coverage, over 10 billion are new public debt: so much, out of 2,300 or almost, these affect little. In the merits of the decree-law I touch two or three aspects. On natural disasters, the measure only after the examination addresses, but not all, the open problems related above all to the post-emergency and reconstruction of the earthquake of Central Italy last year. He deals, however, or tries to deal, also with the earthquakes of Emilia-Romagna and Lombardy of 2012, the Eagle of 2009, the Umbria of 1997 and the recent one of Ischia. At the time, however, I remember, the decree-law dealt with only a little more than the flood of Livorno. Then, given the hundreds of cross-cutting amendments that carried the many desperate demands of the earthquake victims, especially from Central Italy, it was decided to put a serious hand in it. Also because after more than a year - I remember that the first shock dates back to 24 August 2016 - only a quarter, 25 percent, of the emergency housing facilities (SAE) were delivered, but of these not all are habitable and are SAE that record exorbitant costs. In terms of rubble, only 10 percent were removed. And so came what I call the 21-page amendment, delivered by the government on Monday evening, which aims or wants to reorganize much of the discipline of earthquakes. Unfortunately, while acknowledging the goodwill of the new Commissioner for reconstruction De Micheli, many problems remain open and do not respond to so many needs. Like, for example, those of the municipality of l'Aquila, whose new administration, which settled last spring, found a total disaster and a lot of dust under the carpet. Of course, we've also managed to get positive things. For example, on Grandma Peppina, the symbol of the displaced, it is good that the Government has accepted the request of the League that, after filing a bill whose iter had already begun in the Senate Environment Commission, submitted to the decree-law at our examination an amendment of similar content. I stress this: this very important measure is not ad personam, but the determination of this elderly 95-year-old has allowed to bring to light hundreds of similar cases, of temporary constructions built to cope with the emergency of the earthquake. These buildings were built independently by earthquake-stricken citizens, especially farmers and farmers who, not wanting or being able to leave their land and their place of work, could not wait for the months announced by Renzi, who then multiplied, for the delivery and custody of the SAE, the emergency housing structures. A problem, that of the houses, that for us of the North League it was evident from the beginning that it would emerge. We pointed out this last year - Senator Lai remembers this well, because he was also rapporteur on that occasion - and, on the occasion of the conversion of Decree-Law No 189 of 17 October 2016, we tabled specific amendments, unfortunately rejected. In a country where abuse is widespread and - alas - largely tolerated, the institutions must always apply common sense and understand the needs of those who find themselves, in a handful of seconds, as in war, suffering devastation, loss of identity and, for years, the permanence in a state of absolute precariousness, because these are the consequences that bring earthquakes. The approved standard, now known as save Peppina, is very simple. It is not a question, dear colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, of a sanatoria tombale, as it provides that for the houses built in the earthquake zones the activity is of free construction and there is the compatibility landscape, but obviously under certain conditions: that the Municipality belongs to the crater of the earthquake; that the house is built in a private property area, with own money in place of an SAE and, therefore, allowing the State to save not little money; that the house is a temporary structure used for the purposes of the main dwelling. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Finally, once the reconstruction of the damaged or destroyed building has been completed, this little house is removed. Another theme is fair compensation. It has been a good thing to extend the measure envisaged for lawyers to other professions, even though, at the moment, by means of a simple rule of principle - introduced in extremis, let us be frank - to which, necessarily, we will have to return shortly. We consider it sacred that the right to fair compensation should be granted to all 2.3 million professionals with VAT numbers and not just to a professional category. Finally, I would like to focus on measures in the field of cyber protection. It is good that the amendment has been withdrawn: the proposal to allow the Presidency of the Council of Ministers to set up a private-law foundation for cyber-protection for research activities is, in our view, very risky. We believe that national cyber-security should be the sole domain of state bodies and not extended to private individuals. If it is considered that the AISI and AISE agencies do not have the necessary technical resources and capabilities, be it in Britain or the USA, where there are dedicated agencies. Allowing individuals to enter the data protection system is a risk, because there may be individuals whose interests may not necessarily coincide with national ones. Domando: what signal does a country give to the world whose state contracts private-law foundations a sensitive part of its security? We have the feeling that this proposal is the thing that Renzi wanted to set up for his friend Carrai. [[Applause from the Divine Senator]] Ladies and gentlemen, national security needs a lot of caution. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Milo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u77	Mr President, I will also be brief, and above all, because the measure under consideration, although very complex, is somewhat the prelude to the next draft budget law. It is an articulated measure that touches many topics, certainly all important for the revival of the economy of our country. I want to focus only on a few aspects, beyond the procedure for the transfer of Alitalia, the golden power and many other measures, including the financing of the site of Bagnoli-Coroglio and the city of Matera. Since there are so many qualifying interventions, in the amending action I believe that the Government has also had to suffer from anguish, especially in the health sector, but I do not want to argue about this. It has to be said that in the tax decree on our examination we have achieved things that we already said a year ago. We in the ALA Group, last year, during the examination of the tax decree of 2016, on the subject, for example, of the dismantling of the folders, would have liked to have longer deadlines - also and above all because we expected higher receipts, as in fact happened - and more deadlines, over time, to facilitate our citizens. Beyond that, I believe that we have ensured that the decree-law at our examination could proceed in a swift and concrete way. We have dealt with a number of problems in the Commission; one of the many, to which Mr Arrigoni referred just now, is that of the Tax Agencies, with respect to which the Government has tabled an amendment which it then had to withdraw: perhaps, in some cases, it may be better, because making further reflection is important, especially because we in the ALA Group did not share a number of considerations of merit, particularly that according to which the Tax Agencies also finance themselves through the commissions on sanctions imposed by the same Agencies. In a liberal and reformist country this is absolutely unthinkable and goes against the cultural and political history of me and our Group: compared to this we will always raise great barriers and we will always say no. It is therefore important that we take this argument again and we will be prepared to deal with it without reservation. There are principles that we do not derogate, but with an open face and without mental reservations. I disagree a little with Mr Arrigoni, who spoke before me, about the fact that the Government has withdrawn the amendment on cybernetics. I have a slightly different idea about this, considering that the government should have an important instrument, for what is happening inside and above all outside our country. It is a very special moment, in which we must be careful and therefore I invite the Government to propose that amendment again, because I think it is important, not only for the Government, but especially for our country. In this regard, I read yesterday that there was a change of CEO in Open Fiber, with a new CEO coming from Telecom Sparkle: you have to have a broader vision and understand better, probably I am not up to it, but it is important to put together the many pieces. I do not want to forget, because it is important for our Group, that we made a proposal against which there was a defiance by the Government and the entire Senate Assembly: in Article 2 everyone had forgotten the earthquake of Ischia, August 21. I must acknowledge this to the rapporteur, Mr Silvio Lai, and in particular to the Government, in the person of Deputy Minister Morando, that I have understood the concreteness of our amendments and, with the sensitivity of all time, have grasped the importance of our amending proposals. The amending proposals that we have tabled have been accepted and have had the right and proper financial cover. There remains an appendix which the Government, through Deputy Minister Morando, made yesterday evening the public commitment in the Commission to support, with an amendment that we have already tabled to the next draft budget law. We are proud of this, especially because it was our proposal. We did not, in truth, processions, we did not go to Ischia; there were some ministers, some political leaders who promised and committed themselves, but nothing was done concretely, not even a rag of amendment, while we remembered, although we did not go to Ischia. Beyond this - I do not want to start a controversy - we broadly share this measure, because it has faced a number of important problems, as I said in the preamble, for the revival of the economy of our country. The government has had the courage, compared to positions taken by us on a number of subjects, to say no. For this reason, I would like to thank all my colleagues in the Commission, with a majority and opposition, who have helped to bring this decree-law into effect and I would like to thank not only the offices of the Budget Commission, the President and the rapporteur, but also and in particular Deputy Minister Morando, for the sensitivity he has had with regard to a number of subjects that we have submitted to him. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group and the Senators Lai and Fucksia]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u78	Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u79	Mr President, as a well-known journalist from Il Sole 24 Ore wrote a few days ago, the decree-law we are debating today has given ample space to the manifestation of a crazy crazy of condons and sanatories in the majority, and I would also add a crazy desire for condons and sanatories in almost all the opposition; a crazy desire that we have been seeing for too long now. Basically, all the stages of the tax levy, with the exception of what happens at source, mainly on income from work and pension, have been the subject of amendments with proposals for compensation and sanatoriums: no sanctions, no interest in late payment, and even, in some proposals that have not been approved, no interest tout court against any reasonable economic principle. Let's start with the Bonario warning: you made an irregularity, I'll write it down and you can make up for it in sixty days with a slight penalty. For those who have not recovered, the proposal - then not approved - for sanatoria has arrived on time. Then there is the stage of the investigation: I find out that you have escaped and I ask you to pay. There are a number of possibilities here: we have tried, fortunately without success, to shorten the time within which investigations can be carried out, with authentic interpretations of existing rules, in favour of extortors already condemned and certainly known to this House. To those who have not paid, it has been in question, it has lost in two degrees of judgment and it has reached the Supreme Court, we have given, with recent measures, the opportunity to save ourselves without sanctions, because we have broken the pending quarrels. In this way, some large and well-known taxpayers have saved hundreds of millions; hundreds of millions lost in revenue. Anyone who has not paid and has not been involved, and has therefore reached the stage of co-active collection, gets a installment, which we have recognized, in most cases, regardless of the economic condition: regardless, that is, of the objective difficulty that might have to pay taxes. For those who didn't pay all the installments, here comes the scraping of the folders. The measure, as amended in the Commission with the support of all political forces, has removed all the barriers that still existed to access this break-up. Weren't you in line with the installment? Come back. Didn't you deposit all the installments you signed up to? Come back. This is particularly serious, because there is no condon (or sanatoria as you want to pilatescamente call it) in which there is no such phenomenon: I pay the first installment and then disappear. In the meantime, I'm still taking my time and I'm still repaying my debt. It happened with the tomb condon on VAT and it happened with the building condon. In fact, for those who do not pay and for those who do not want to pay it is essential to take time, because during this time it makes disappear the assets that would be attacked by the co-active collection. Meanwhile, the state loses revenue. The most serious innovation among those introduced with this decree-law is that you do not go to scrap only the old folders, on which obviously the claims of the tax had faded, but also the new ones, of a few days ago, for which the probabilities of collection are instead very high. Why this pre-emptive waiver? Are we saying that despite the so flagrant reform of Equitalia the collection does not work? Or that we give up on principle all collection activities? Or are we saying that those who do not pay taxes must always be rewarded? Let us think, however: this is a particularly unfair social prize. Let's recapitulate: a bonary warning can signal an understandable error that doesn't necessarily mean evasion. Whoever, after the warning paid in the sixty days endured a penalty, who did not pay gets off with no penalty and is therefore rewarded. So for the determination and its installment: those who are paying hard have the sanction; those who have not paid have no penalty and the same applies to the collection and its installment. Those who have paid hard have taken the sanctions and those who have not paid get away with nothing. We also take the break-up: those who have not paid the planned installments should have fallen from the benefit and instead have been readmitted. Again a mockery for those who tried and paid. What are the reasons for this condonistic orgy? It is said to meet businesses and taxpayers in economic difficulties. If that were the case, I would be the first to agree, because we undoubtedly emerge from a serious economic crisis, and also because, in general, no creditor has any interest in choking his debtor. But that is not the case: the rule is general and is in favour of everyone, regardless of their economic condition. The reality is that it favours mainly those who do not have economic difficulties, those who have liquidity and that is those who can afford to pay with the break down installments more concentrated over time and higher than those of the ordinary installment. Taxpayers in difficulty are used as human shields for the great evaders, who earn from these measures not a few thousand euros, but hundreds of millions. We have famous cases and the resulting revenue gap is enormous. This measure causes erarial damage which is not correctly quantified. You prefer to cash something right away instead of all due in a little more time. Moreover, all economic studies certify that one seasoning today depresses the revenue of tomorrow, lowering the degree of fiscal fidelity, because one expects a new pardon and then another and another, as has punctually happened so many times in our country. It is said that this is because the sanctions are excessive, but it was this Parliament that only reformed them in 2015. If it doesn't work for us, let's change them and not use them as an excuse. It is said that the sanatories bring out the black and uproot it, but despite the fact that two voluntary disclosures were made, in 2017 alone the Finance Guard discovered false invoices abroad for 1.6 billion with 400 million taxable evaded. A new pardon has also been developed in this field: this is a mini shield covering cross-borders and former residents abroad much more generous than voluntary disclosure. In fact, those who made voluntary because they had financial assets capital abroad not declared for monitoring purposes had a discount on sanctions, but had to pay all the tax evaded. With this sauce instead you pay a small forfait of 3 percent of the value of the assets: a real gift. The reasons for all these sanatories therefore do not hold up. I think it is much more important than the truth is said. The truth is the idea that taxes are still stealing and so the less you pay for them the better. The idea is that the taxpayer must defend himself from a voracious tax that takes away what is his. On the contrary, we believe that the tax system is the state, which collects solved according to rules decided democratically to finance the common goods for the whole community and first of all the universal welfare. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] Dismantling the tax system is tantamount to dismantling the universal welfare system and thus allowing only the wealthiest to have access to health care, education, kindergartens, assistance to the weakest, independent life for people with disabilities. People do not pay taxes spontaneously (they are called taxes). In the levy there is a coercive element that must use, alas, also hateful instruments such as foreclosures, to protect the collective well-being. Tax evasion subtracts 100 billion and more per year from revenue, billions that could largely be used to reduce taxes to those who pay them faithfully. Tax evasion hides funds to bribe and finance illegality, tax evasion intertwines with contributory evasion, labour exploitation, irregular immigration and caporalate. It must be fought with determination, not continuing to recognize prizes. The indistinguished destruction, its extension to the newly emerged roles winks the eye to the evador and beats those who have paid faithfully. This is an indefensible measure which we strongly oppose. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u80	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u81	Mr President, Minister, Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech on the subject, I must acknowledge the work done by the Commission and the rapporteur, not only because of the complexity of the measure, but above all because of the numerous revisions contained therein. The heterogeneity of the provisions that the Government wanted to address here also concerned a topic that I loved: that of the production and processing of cannabis for medical use. I am happy that the confrontation was free from prejudices or positions of personal ethics, a pragmatic confrontation in short, this demonstration of the value - and necessity - of medical in the cultivation of cannabis. However, a note on the method is granted to me: we could have regulated the subject better and with more courage, especially in its most divisive and delicate aspects but still respecting and addressing an issue that is now above all of social need. To regulate the use of medicinal products of plant origin based on cannabis - as well as its distribution - is an even stronger duty for us legislators because we must demonstrate that we care for the social good with secularity and free from all prejudice. In particular, therapeutic conditions will treat cases of chronic pain, especially in patients undergoing chemotherapy. We cannot afford, therefore, to remain indifferent. I say this because unfortunately the debate on liberalisation (in the text approved in the House and unfortunately not yet scheduled in the Senate) has left little room for further study on medical use, now introduced by an amendment of the Government. In this respect, I have tabled an amending proposal (which was then accepted in the Commission) which gives the possibility of possible additional production of therapeutic cannabis by other companies, in addition to that already produced by the Military Chemical and Pharmaceutical Establishment in Florence, subsequently defining the legal nature of the structures that may be authorised for cultivation and processing, as well as possible controls. The important thing was however to establish the legitimacy of this passage, that is if the need for drugs and raw materials showed serious deficiencies in the supplies compared to the requests of the patients, it will be possible to start a production and packaging in several sites. A decree by the Minister of Health will then be necessary to identify the new production sites and to release the ban, production sites that will have to operate while respecting the good agricultural and collecting practices (GACP), i.e. according to production and quality standards defined by the European Medicines Agency (EMA). However, I do not think that the issue of the liberalisation of cannabis for personal use can be postponed any further. Again, with a secular and pragmatic approach, it is necessary to consider how to open up to this practice also in view of the minimization of damage, also knowing that you can erode the great illicit gains that organized crime gets. But this, I fear, will be evaluated in the next parliamentary term. In addition, during the examination of the measure, unfortunately, an amendment of mine was rejected in the Commission, which I proposed again for Parliament's examination of the reduction of excise duties on petrol. I would like to make a premise, to clarify the end of the matter. The Ministry of the Environment recently presented the catalogue of environmentally favourable subsidies and environmentally harmful subsidies. This document analyses all existing fiscal measures that have an environmental impact by classifying them into three categories: environmentally favourable subsidies, environmentally uncertain subsidies and environmentally harmful subsidies. As subsidies we mean reductions in excise duties or other tax reductions. According to the above catalogue, environmentally harmful subsidies (SAD), i.e. measures that not only produce lower tax revenues but cause environmental damage, amount to more than EUR 16 billion per year; excise exemptions on fuels alone represent a value of around EUR 3.4 billion. Their gradual reduction and reduction of exemptions would undoubtedly bring benefits to both public finances and the environment. On the other hand, paragraph 1, point 2, of Article 5, in amending the letter c) of paragraph 718 of the Stability Act of 2015, stipulates that the increase for the year 2019 of excise duties on petrol and diesel used as fuel is such as to result in higher net revenues not less than 10 million euros, instead of 350 million euros. My amendment therefore intervenes by deleting point 2 of that paragraph in order to maintain the increase already planned. I am convinced that more excise duty on petrol will cause people and goods to move to other types of alternative and clean fuels. We need to be clear, we can no longer proceed in this schizophrenic way: on the one hand by favouring, as this article does, a SAD, and on the other by intervening with commendable plans, such as those on sustainable mobility, in favour of alternative energies to fuels from fossil sources. It's either one or the other. Consistently, we reduce environmentally harmful subsidies and increase environmentally favourable subsidies (SAFs). I would like to point out to everyone that, after three years of decline, CO2 emissions (carbon dioxide) are again growing in the world, as emerged during the COP23 in Bonn, which has just ended these days. One thing I would like to make clear to everyone: for everything that we approve of in this House; for all the legislative interventions that we carry forward, we should always carefully assess their impact on the environment. It may seem like a detail, that of finding the value of an excise duty, but changing excise duty has environmental impacts. And on the protection of the environment we play our future. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u82	Mr President, this is a measure which constitutes a segment of the budgetary manoeuvre. It cannot escape anyone that the budgetary maneuver we are dealing with is that of the end of the legislature and cannot escape anyone that this fact implies, politically speaking, some considerations that then also translate into regulatory action. I say this, Mr President, because we cannot extrapolate from a social and economic context, I think also political and military international, this budgetary maneuver, because it will influence good or bad, perhaps not decisively, also the electoral result. And the choices that are made in these hours are not insignificant, because they draw paths that can give this country a positive destiny, a path of growth and development in democracy and in respect of the institutions born from the Anti-fascist Resistance, or a drift which is authoritarian and restorer. This is the data and there is no one who can work his hands and free his conscience from this reasoning, because, if he does so, he is an accomplice to that drift; if he does so, he helps that process of restoration. This measure and the way in which Parliament did not approach the debate and the drafting of it also have its meaning. I must acknowledge the rapporteur and the government, but also all my colleagues in the Commission, that they have taken a responsible attitude towards the country: there have been no obstructionist attempts, no ideological biased conflicts. There has been a real attempt on the part of everyone to be on the merit; a merit that has not solved everything, has left great issues before us. There are events that concern people, families, those who suffer more than other conditions of difficulty, which have not been answered. I have a hope and I say this because, with regard to the care of disabled family members, we have retabled the amendments in budgetary manoeuvre and I think that on these issues the attention should be greater than that which has been so far. I have heard positive words, the announcement of sensitivity that I believe can be realized before the conclusion of the examination of the budgetary manoeuvre. Then there were issues that concerned suffering territories, which were considered; perhaps not all, but many were considered in this provision. I am thinking of all the damage caused by earthquakes, natural disasters and climatic emergencies. I myself have recognised for my island an important contribution to the agropastoral sector, which has always been suffering and which today is even more suffering from a condition of difficulty precisely because of climate change, heavy periods of drought, unexpected frosts that reduce the productive capacity of the land and severely reduce the possibility of existence and resistance of our agropastoral companies. So that was the approach. I do not wish to dwell on the individual act. The transfer of Alitalia was a disaster, because we no longer have the flag company and not even a private company that refers to our national territory, but it is not a responsibility of this Government and not even of the extraordinary administrators who have been appointed. This is an ancient responsibility, which has roots in the greed demonstrated many and many years ago and that we do not want to return. For this reason we are fighting for the unity of the progressive and democratic forces of this country: we do not want that period to return. In this context, everyone is looking for the so-called hair in the egg to understand how bad we are that we cannot be endured compared to the heavy memories, which we drag, of situations certainly much more negative and censorable in terms of the production of the law. If we are not happy today because in 2016 we recover only 19 billion tax evasion, I wonder what we should have said in the years when tax evasion was theorized by those who had the primary responsibilities of the democratic institutions of this country, the Government and Parliament. We do not want that kind of philosophy to be part of these classrooms; we do not want it because it is a serious damage to the country, especially to workers, their families, those who live in the suburbs, those who are not well, those who every day face life with the difficulty of survival, not with the ease of a rewarding life. We believe that the budget maneuver as a whole should take this aspect into account, including politically. The appeal I make to the government is to put all the sensitivity of which it is able to understand the problems of those people, those territories and those families. We are also facing a serious situation at international level. I try to say: let's make an effort; let's look at things from above. Europe is something for us to save and also a problem to deal with in our relationship with others. We are victims - I know - of a regulatory framework that sometimes seems tight to us and prevents us from doing everything we would have wanted to do, including through the rules that we are able to approve in this Parliament. There are constraints and, whenever we meet with someone who reminds us of them, we have a nuisance, but European integration cannot be interrupted by a violent war of influences for which this Continent is in the South all the malaise, from the Middle East to North Africa, which does nothing but make wars and produce devastating phenomena such as mass emigration from fear. It cannot fail to bear in mind that the entire border along the Caucasus is at war, that Ukraine lives what lives, that there are malaises and conflicts in Georgia. It must be borne in mind that in Europe the unknown identities become a deflagrant element of national states and that the national states that close themselves end up being the breeding ground for authoritarian, nationalist and fascist political theories. We can't just stand by and watch. Even when we present the measures, we discuss them among ourselves, when we have to find a solution to a concrete problem such as, for example, finding a financial supply that can keep the country united around a project of development and overall growth, that puts North and South together rather than divide them, when we have to do this, that is to reason, for example, on the financial supply, we also have to that path put in place in an articulated way to combat evasion, to recover a piece of taxation have a meaning, even if it is not the method that we would have preferred. If we take action, as we have done, to respond to a general question aimed, for example, at bringing back to the monthly level the distorted invoices due to the absence of the competent authorities in enforcing the trade rules, the relationship between consumer and business, we are giving a response to the maintenance of democratic institutions. If the discussion of merit is to be done, it must be done first, and must never be spoiled by prejudice or instrumentality, it cannot become an element of conflict regardless. Yesterday I heard a very interesting speech on one point, which I quote because it concerns the agricultural sector. We all know that the agricultural sector was required, for a contribution of up to EUR 5,000 per farm, to present the anti-mafia certifications. Anti-mafia certifications are made out of office and provide prefectures, which use police forces. To check if one is or is not mafia, because of 5,000 euros of contribution, we would have cast all the prefectures and cast all the police forces to look for certifications otherwise we would not have given the contribution to those farms and those families of farmers. From there a beautiful discussion has developed on the untouchability of the anti-mafia code. If we defend ourselves from the mafias in this way, Mr President, we end up surrendering ourselves for political prejudice to the mafias themselves.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u83	We greet a delegation from the Italian Women's Centre Committee of Vasto, in the province of Chieti, who is attending our work from the forums. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u84	Mr President, it will take me a short time to discuss a couple of points which have affected the tax decree, concerning certain issues of the liberal professions and, more specifically, lawyers. This category has been the subject of attention by the measure under consideration in two main respects. The first envisaged, and achieved to a large extent, the repeal of the absurd and unreasonable obligation to contract an accident insurance policy for the category of lawyers, as well as practitioners, collaborators and employees of law firms. This is a rule denied by his own father; it was introduced into the professional law forensic by an amendment submitted to the Chamber by Mr Beltrandi of the Radical Party, who, subsequently requested with regard to the reasons for the provision of an accident prevention obligation for a category which, despite all the problems it has, should not take particular risks at the physical level in the performance of its profession, has denied the intention of obliging lawyers to take a accident insurance policy for themselves. Well, we have welcomed the fact that the Budget Committee has been approved - and we must of course thank the colleagues of all political forces for this - an amendment of the 5 Star Movement which has succeeded in repealing at least the engraving contained in the second paragraph of Article 12 of the current forensic professional law on the obligation to obtain insurance. The rest of that rule remains standing, which some problems of unreasonableness, coordination and even interpretation we fear will continue to produce; it would have been better to repeal the entire paragraph in question. However, let us bring home this result in terms of reasonableness. The other aspect that affected lawyers and freelancers was the long-awaited introduction of the principle of fair compensation, against, as we know, the now long-standing repeal of minimum rates. In a period of crisis, such as the one that is going through all the professional categories (that of lawyers is the one I know most directly) with truly distressing effects, it was frankly expected a more incisive and clearer intervention in introducing a principle according to which the fair compensation of the professional benefits of the lawyer - and of the other professional categories - would be protected and maintained, in the face of the risk, which is becoming reality, of the precipitate of what is provided by our own Constitution, which provides for a remuneration for all kinds of work. The result of the government's amendment is quite uncomfortable and inefficient, it does not get the impression. The principle of fair compensation is established, in relation to the parameters currently approved by ministerial decree; then there is a list of contractual clauses contained in these conventions, which concern banks, insurance companies and large companies (then we will see how it has been extended to the public administration), applying a criterion of harassment that is however easy to circumvent, with reference to the clauses listed in the fifth paragraph, because it is made without prejudice to the possibility that these clauses are nevertheless operative and not appealable if the object of specific negotiation and approval. I personally represented in the Budget Committee yesterday that this is an easily circumventable rule; in fact, in comparison with a strong contractor (the bank, insurance, the big business), it is easy to find ways to simulate a fake negotiation, a fake approval of a unilateral offer of the strong contractor, much stronger than the professional, for example by inviting the lawyer who wants to adhere to a scallop agreement to send an email of acceptance or letting the same legal to propose scallop conventions, which are then those listed in the letters (a) to (i) of the fifth paragraph. Two of these letters are still considered vexatory and not possible subject of negotiation and approval; but those that remain outside this guarantee have incredible and it will be really difficult to get them to send down to the hundreds of thousands of lawyers and, probably, other professionals, who will have to accept, for example, the fact that the expenses must be anticipated at the expense of the professional or the renunciation of the reimbursement of the same. The sublimation of folly is, then, in point (g) of paragraph 5, in which it is expected that \ in the case of liquidation of the expenses of quarrel in favor of the client, the lawyer is granted only the lower amount provided for in the convention, even in the case of expenses cleared that have been paid in full or partially or recovered by the party to the convention. This means, in essence, for those who do not have clear the principle, that if the bank has to sign an agreement to the lawyer Castaldi agreeing 50 euros for a given practice, if the colleague Castaldi wins the case and the judge, in the judgment, liquida expenses of quarrel for 500 euros, well to the lawyer Castaldi remains 50 euros and the bank or the insurance is enriched of 450 euros of difference. This is really crazy. I repeat: the attempt to protect lawyers, in my modest view, risks having exactly the opposite effect, because it will be more difficult to prove the vexatiousness of the clauses, having remained the engraving, unless they have been the subject of specific negotiation and approval. I see that the time available to me is coming to an end. One last word must be spent with reference to paragraph 9. The action of nullity of a contract or of a vexatory clause in our legal system is normally unspeakable. Well, here it is specified that the action for nullity, if the lawyer or the professional wishes to challenge that clause having such vexatory content, has a tenure term of twenty-four months from the date of signature of the Convention. You understand that this, in most cases, is too short a term and that it starts when the convention still has to carry out its effects. The extension to the other professional categories has also taken place in a manner, we believe, ragazzonata, but we are honestly aware, from the intellectual point of view - and it has also been admitted by the rapporteur, Senator Lai - that the wording of a text 2 has been made with the very little time available to the Budget Commission: we understand that. We therefore have concerns about its effectiveness. Even with regard to relations with public administration, a statute of principle is established, according to which public administration must be guided by respect for the principle of fair compensation. We fear that the results will not be the ones expected; from our point of view there is a risk that even greater harm will be done to the professional categories, to that of lawyers in particular. The same amendments that we have proposed, and which have not been approved in this part-session, will be put forward again in the budget law and if, hopefully, they are considered admissible, they will be the occasion for the majority and the Government to reconsider and adjust this legislation so long awaited by hundreds of thousands of VAT consignments, which have to deal with the last austerity cut sanctioned by the Council of State in October 2017, which established that the professional performance must not necessarily be remunerated with compensation, but can be done with the image advantage of having subscribed to the execution of a project, in that case by an engineer for a ban proposed by the City of Catanzaro, with the sole satisfaction of appearing performer of a project, paid then zero. If we put in the public administration, even at the level of the municipalities... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're over three minutes. BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, ma'am, I'll finish. Thank you for your patience. I'm gonna shut up. The wish is, as usual, reasonableness. Time will be there in the examination of the budget law. We hope that the Government and the majority will agree on the points we have proposed in the amendments that will also be available on that occasion. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u85	Senator Mandelli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, in today's newspapers we read two reports that seem to contradict each other. On the one hand, there is the government's triumphalism over the ISTAT projections that give GDP growth to 1.8%, the highest percentage for six years. On the other hand, we read the news that the vice-president of the European Commission, reproaches Italy for the accounts not in order and anticipates the idea of probable measures to be taken against our country, if there is not a change of course since next spring. Certainly the GDP of Italy has grown, not thanks to the action of the Government, but due to exogenous factors. I am referring, for example, to the so-called Dragons effect, mentioned several times in our speeches in this House, and now proved empirically by the authoritative work produced by the Study Centre for the Real Economy. Gross domestic product has improved and will continue to grow mainly on the basis of Frankfurt's monetary policy and the quantitative easing which sees the ECB buy public bonds and which should continue until the third quarter of next year, although with a lower intensity than that adopted so far. Just as the other exogenous variables that have driven the growth of our economy, especially international trade and the stability of the oil price, are still favourable. The forecasts of our country's growth have also resulted from the changed macroeconomic variables. But Vice-President Katainen is certainly right: there is no serious commitment to public finances in the Italian budget maneuvers sent to Brussels. Italian growth is largely entrusted to the driving force of the strong economies of the world. Almost nothing has been done to reduce expenditure, which in fact continues to rise, even as a result of the decree-law in question. The financial cover is largely entrusted to the budget deficit. The debt stock not only does not decrease, but it has beaten its records and I fear it will mark new ones as early as next spring. In this context this decree-law is inserted, which accompanies the maneuver of public finance for the next year. It should be said for the next three years. In fact, the legacy over the following years is only that of clauses set to safeguard public accounts that foresee increases in consumption taxes, with a depressing effect on growth. Hence the serious and documented alarm of the European Commission. A measure that, issued to anticipate some items on the accounts of 2018, modifying them from 2017, however, makes the idea only of the provisionality of the interventions. Following the examination by the Budget Commission, the measure has quadrupled in the number of articles, contents and interventions. I want to point out as a chronicle, but very indicative, that from the initial 20 articles provided by the original text of the decree-law we have passed to 72. It is therefore a messy way of proceeding in a decree-law linked to the 2018 maneuver, which announces a draft budget law, of which we are about to begin the examination, which could also rise in content given the number of amendments tabled by colleagues. Too many problems remain unresolved in recent years, which are being tried to find a solution in the final sprint of the legislature. Let us take, for example, the rules on the earthquake, which modify the times and ways of reconstruction: we intervene for the fourth time in a year on this tragedy. I speak of drama because the people of Central Italy still live in critical conditions and without certainty about the future of their homes and activities. It has been realized, with unforgivable delay, how far the process of action following the earthquake is, as we have repeatedly denounced both in the Commission and in this House. In our view, even the rules now in place are not decisive and we will certainly see new corrective measures, while, as I said before, the people affected by the earthquake will spend their second winter in precarious conditions. Introduced in the decree-law themes such as the dismantling of the folders, in order only to make cash and without resolving the many issues that concern entrepreneurs, professionals and citizens who have not been able to comply with their tax or contributory commitments, but who intend to honour their debts with the State. In short, we try to find a solution to the effect just to make a case, without thinking about the causes instead. Finally, to return to the effects on the balance sheets introduced in our premise, I would like to stress that the inclusion in the decree-law of provisions that sterilize safeguard clauses also has a limited effect. By stopping the entry into force of the clauses, taxes are not reduced, but the increases on consumption taxes are postponed, which will, unfortunately, take place from 2019. Moreover, as illustrated during the examination of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling this morning, the Decree-Law contains a whole series of provisions which are presented as urgent, but which in reality have been trying to deal with unresolved situations for too many years. I am thinking, for example, of cases such as those of the Red Cross, the environmental reclamation of the Bagnoli-Coroglio area and the Municipality of Matera. Let me also say a word about fair compensation. Surely the reverse made after the so-called Bersani sheets is pleasurable, because it shows that - perhaps - there was some big mistake in those sheets. It was not possible to think of a mortified section in compensation. As we have seen in recent years, professionals were really at the mercy of large groups and could not do that professional activity that is important to our citizens. However, if, on the one hand, we try to put some pieces and solve the problems of a vital sector of the country, on the other we have continued in a policy of increasing bureaucracy and measures vexatori (I am referring to the expanded split payment) that, in fact, contradict the will to meet, with a fair compensation, a fair recognition of the professionals who in Italy have done and are doing so much, even in these years of great crisis. So, on the one hand, fair compensation and, on the other hand, an increase in bureaucracy. We are the only country that manages to introduce technological innovations without removing any bureaucratic constraint and this I believe is really a great boulder that we leave to professionals, but - in general - to the country. In conclusion, we continue to mortify the country, which does not deserve decrees-laws of this type. Above all, Italy does not deserve to have a new Executive that will be, despite it, faced with a future already mortgaged because of the wrong choices made in recent years by the left-wing government. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u87	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u88	Mr President, I think that the debate that this House has developed has lived up to the expectations that I had in some way mentioned in my speech. I cannot reply with regard to all the elements that have been put, because I think it is right to focus on some, so that we can give answers. I'm gonna make a premise. I think that very often we say the things we need, because we represent the parties and sometimes this also prevents us from taking on a greater responsibility than what we just want to represent. I say this to refer to two of the issues raised. I was very intrigued and, in some way, I was also struck by the fact that it was presented, by groups that have had roles as government and that probably will have roles as government, a preliminary constitutionality that, if it had been approved, would have generated a hole in the state budget equivalent to 2.5 billion euros abundant - almost 3 billion - constituted by the additional revenue that the decree-law under consideration brings to the state budget. Similarly, it cannot be thought that 1.8% of GDP - which had been anticipated in the hearing on budgetary manoeuvre by some institutions, which said that the increase of 1.5% of GDP had already been achieved in the first three quarters - is only the result of European policies, which are certainly decisive and without which Italy would not have recovered the land we have recovered, and is not also the result of choices made, measured and wise. Of course, in some cases it is possible to evaluate them differently, but to deny a contribution of the choices made at this time seems at least courageous and, on the other hand, unfair. The first of the three points on which I want to reply concerns the issue of condons and the condoning aspect, which in some cases has been criticized and in some cases appreciated. I don't think anyone can tell us that they are a political force and a coalition that thinks that this is a stable mechanism. In fact, if we do not take note of the fact that ten years of economic crisis may have caused a rift in the fabric of companies, especially small enterprises and those in the most difficult and disadvantaged territories, and that this has led to the difficulty of maintaining a normal relationship with the State in paying its contributions and in paying taxes, and if we think that all this can be a general habit of tax evasion, we make a mistake. We do this because we do not talk to a large part of the country, which has real difficulties and is made up of those small and medium-sized companies, often artisans, that can only make it if we, now that we can, give them a little more help. This does not mean that it can be a stable mechanism, because those who say that fiscal fidelity needs certainties are right. But we cannot - as we do for earthquakes - fail to consider that the 2008 crisis was a social and economic earthquake, with obvious consequences. In the same way I want to defend and leave a signal, saying that Senator Micheloni is right, when he says that we solve a question of the past, with Italian immigrants, who have already returned to Italy and have sums abroad regularly earned and on which they paid taxes abroad, but today, if a worker lives in the United States for two years, because he is a university researcher, he finds himself paying taxes in the United States and having the difficulty to bring back to Italy what he earned. Since we are in a world that, in this respect, has changed, because the work has changed, especially for the high profiles, it is natural that the brains go out and it is also natural that we bring them back to Italy. It is certainly necessary to deal with this issue definitively and not occasionally and not only - this is true - with condonos backwards. I would like Senator Micheloni, when he wants to return to Italy, not to pay further sanctions and taxes in Italy, for things that are already taxed in another country, which, among other things, has regular relations with our country. I think we have to note that there is a change in the habits of workers, which is more frequent than we think, so much so that in the decree-law under consideration, with an important rule, we wanted to return what was also partly due, following that request for the return of brains in Italy, with a norm of 2010, then modified in 2015 and then modified again in 2017, when we told them that if they had returned, after having been absent for at least five years, to work in Italy, maybe in a university, we would tax them in a certain way; then we changed the taxation during the game. We cannot make policies for the return of brains and then fail to keep the commitments made for them to return. This is also part of the way in which we must ensure this process. The second element I want to address and which has been mentioned concerns small municipalities. During the debate in the Commission, the subject was dealt with because an amendment was tabled, which I believe is important and which has been decided to postpone in the draft budget law. I am referring to the possibility of extending to commercial businesses what is now done with the dry coupon for private rents, limited to small towns and historic centres for the revival of craft and commercial activities. It's a good, important rule. You can also limit it to those empty premises for a long time. We decided to deal with it during the discussion of the draft budget bill because there is the continuation of the dry coupon. This is a policy for small municipalities, just as it is a policy for small municipalities, made here - I am referring to those who said that we were distracted - the choice to allow rural pharmacies to have the conditions to survive in small municipalities with a change of regulations. We know that pharmacies do not only serve as a pharmacological function, but also as a social one, which is increasingly integrated with the provision of services by the National Health Service, which is increasingly integrated with basic medical services. I address another point concerning the situation in Livorno, also mentioned by Senator Filippi. I do. The rule has actually been closed within the decree-law in a way that allows access only to those who have the house or the study or the commercial exercise impossible to practice. In fact, there are other ways that make it impossible for people to work, not only if there is inagibility, but even if there is serious damage. I think that your report will have to be forwarded to the 5th Commission and the rapporteur to the draft budget law, so that this issue can be dealt with. There are damages that can be certified, for example, by the flood commissioner, through civil protection, and it is right that the flood of Livorno be dealt with in the ways that allow that municipality an adequate distribution. I should like to end by thanking everyone for the debate. There would have been many more answers to be given, but I think there will be another opportunity to address the issues raised. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Laniece.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u89	As has been communicated to all Groups on the short routes, taken note of the state of the art and appreciated the circumstances, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the bill in title to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u90	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-11-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-908.ana.u91	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 16 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.22 p.m.
