ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Scoma, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 12 October.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u4	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u8	The Conference of Leaders approved changes to the current calendar and the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 27 October. During today's afternoon session and tomorrow's afternoon session, the draft law on reporting of crimes or irregularities in public or private work will continue to be discussed. Explanations of vote on the measure will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m. At tomorrow's afternoon sitting, the President of the Council of Ministers' communications on the European Council of 19 and 20 October and the inspection union at the afternoon sitting of Thursday 19 October remain confirmed. The work of next week will be devoted entirely to the examination of the reform of the electoral law with unique sessions, without closing hours, from 11 am on Tuesday 24 until Friday 27 October, if necessary. The Presidency will be able to arrange for suspensions in relation to the progress of its work. The vote on any incidental matters will take place at 5 p.m. on Tuesday 24 October. The deadline for tabling amendments is 1 p.m. on Monday 23. The timetable may be supplemented by the President's communications, pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure, on the content of the draft budget law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u9	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo (Herodoto) of Corigliano, in the province of Cosenza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u10	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following program of the Senate's work for the months of October, November and December 2017: - Drawing of law n. 2208 and related - Provisions for the protection of authors of reports of offences or irregularities of which they became aware in the context of a public or private employment relationship (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2941 and related - Changes to the system of election of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic. Delegation to the Government for the determination of the single and plurinomial electoral colleges (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (final vote with the presence of the quorum) - Bills of conversion of decrees-laws - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the competent Commission - Budgetary documents - Motions - Interrogations and questions - Documents defined by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys Other measures provided for by previous work programmes: - n. 91 - Ratification and enforcement of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, made in Strasbourg on 5 November 1992 - Drawing of Law No. 2719 and related - Amendments to the Civil Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and other provisions in favour of orphans for domestic crimes (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No. 2323 - Delegation to the Government for the amendment of the legislation on the use of sewage sludge in agriculture (final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of Law No. 110-1004-1034-1931-2012 - Amendments to Law No. 394, and further provisions on the use of sewage sludge in agriculture (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of Law No. 2755 - Amendments to the Law No. 313 and related - Provisions on the provision of protected areas (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u11	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the agenda of the Assembly until 27 October 2017: [[Tuesday, October 17 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Follow-up to bill n. 2208 and related - Reporting of offences or irregularities in public or private work (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 19 and 20 October 2017 (Wednesday 18, p.) Wednesday 18 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16 Thursday 19 October ant. 9.30 a.m. - Questions and questions]] [[Tuesday 24 October ant. h. 11 - Drawing of law n. 2941 and related - Changes to the system of election of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum) Wednesday 25 " " h. 9.30 Thursday 26 " h. 9.30 Friday 27 " h. 9.30 (if necessary)]] For the single sessions of the week, the Presidency will be able to arrange suspensions in relation to the progress of the work. Amendments to bill No 2941 and related (Amendments to the electoral system of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Monday 23 October. The timetable may be supplemented by the President's communications, pursuant to Rule 126, paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Rules of Procedure, on the content of the draft budget law. Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 19 and 20 October 2017 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: PD 36' FI-PdL XVII 21' M5S 18' Mixed 17' AP-CpE-NCD 15' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 13' GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI) 13' Art. 1-MDP 13' ALA-SCCLP 12' LN-Aut 12' FL (ID-PL, PLI) 11' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u14	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I have already mentioned at the Conference of the Leaders as the forced timetable in the Chamber of the electoral law, less than a week after its incardination in the Commission, represents an institutional violence of unheard of seriousness. In fact, the Senate is prevented from examining the electoral law, which is the most important parliamentary law for the democracy of our country. This happens after another very serious forcing, operated in the House with a tense intervention of the Government that has put the question of confidence on a matter, which - I repeat - is by its very nature parliamentary. This happens even a few months after the elections, at a time when even more serious abuses in the definition of the rules of the game by some players, big and powerful, to the detriment of others. That is why I call for the draft electoral law to be removed from the agenda of next week's Assembly. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u17	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, you are well aware of Article 72 of our Constitution, which - I want to read it here - provides for: The normal procedure of examination and direct approval by the House is always adopted for the constitutional and electoral bill and for the legislative delegation. So, as you can see, the Constitution expressly provides for electoral laws to follow an iter and be approved according to an ordinary procedure. Are you familiar with what happened to the House? I don't think that's ordinary. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Guerra]] Once again, the debate on the constitutionality of the measure has not even been able to take place. For the umpteenth time, trust has been placed. All of us were deluded that it would not happen when Gentiloni Silveri arrived, who said that the government could, for goodness sake, facilitate its examination, but he also said that the electoral question is an exclusive task for Parliament. Once again we have faced the confidence and this cannot be justified by the fact that Forza Italia, the North League and other groups agree with this bill, because it is always a forced force and rightly someone called it a coup. What happens now? Even in the Senate, we are faced with forces that we consider serious. What happened? You, Mr President, have just read out the new timetable of work which provides for the arrival of the draft electoral law next Tuesday morning and its examination for the whole week, with severe forcings and the compression of time. The time allowed for consideration of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling on constitutionality, which must be voted on by 5 p.m. on Tuesday, has even been suspended. The work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which had not even been updated on the fact that today's sitting will end at 8.30 p.m. and was convened at 8 p.m. this evening, was also decided by a majority. All this is happening in a situation in which, once again, as happened in the Chamber of Deputies too, we did not want to reason, to hold a serious debate, with a clear and precise vote on the amendments and an assumption of responsibility on the part of every Member of Parliament. This, once again, will not be possible. Mr President, despite the good morning we have seen since the morning, I hope that you do not wish to put in the Senate the confidence - or the various trusts - that we are talking about. But what do you think you're doing? I ask the majority. Was it not enough that two electoral laws (including the Italicum, also approved with the forcing of trust) were rejected and declared unconstitutional? The institutional and democratic prudence would have wished that, this time, on the electoral bill there would have been a capacity for discernment, of choice, and not just a care for one's own interests by coalitions or fake coalitions that stand up for pure convenience. The far-sightedness and love for the democratic system should in some way have led to an attitude of thought and prudence, because it had to be pondered. We need to weigh and make adequate time available: how do you think that the dignity of democratic institutions can survive if the electoral law is declared unconstitutional for the third time? Is it possible that you, once again, do not think of the dignity of this Parliament and the democratic institutions, but are you always ready to consider only your conveniences? What are we going to tell the citizens? That, once again, trust and forcing are being used? But the citizens will not be able to choose anything and no one, because, once again, they will not be guaranteed what the Constitution provides, namely that the vote is free, that there must be an awareness of what is voted on and that an effect must correspond to a given vote, as recalled in the judgments of the Constitutional Court. Mr President, I shall conclude. We call for the electoral bill to be removed from the timetable. However, we had asked that it should be possible to consider it in this House, where the Commission has concluded it, in order to give the Members of the Commission the opportunity to discuss it. This request has not been accepted either. Mr President, since you make statements on Saturdays and Sundays at party parties, claiming that you will approve the measure on ius soli, I propose that next week the draft law on citizenship be examined instead of the draft electoral law. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u20	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I am thinking of the millions of Italians who are waiting for the vote as an opportunity to resume their sovereignty in this country and who expect an electoral law that will allow this after three elections with the so-called Porcellum. This law allows Italians with minimum pensions, 17.5 million at risk of poverty, 9 million in relative poverty and 4.7 million in absolute poverty (of which 1.2 million children who do not have access to adequate food) to reverse the course in this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This law is there and the Council gave it to us. The Consulta, with its ruling at the beginning of 2017, pointed out an instrument that guaranteed the right of citizens to choose their representatives and also governability, because over 40% of consensus allowed an adequate majority to govern. But at that point the law was no longer accepted by their lords because, bumped by the unconstitutional craps, it did not like it anymore, as if that was the goal. Clearly, this law allowed a 5 Star Government, with a program for the first time voted by citizens. And this could not be accepted: the government of the only political force that does not accept compromises with criminals. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And I'm not telling Senator Mirabelli, but Director Paolo Mieli who, a few days ago, said that what you're doing about electoral law is criminal. Take note of that! And it is not only criminal: it is irrational; it is an offense to intelligence because, on the one hand, it preaches the majoritarian and, on the other, it is removed by proportional drawing the vote on the person with the list vote. In this way the citizens no longer know what politicians vote and what programmes they choose, because each list will make the program they want and then free everyone after the elections. Therefore, we will not even know what the coalition that won. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]] So, the Democratic Party, from preaching that the election day wanted to know who had won, today wants to know, before the election, that no one can win. Then, from the marasma will emerge the true partners of the Leonine pact, stipulated in the right center to vote Renzi, Berlusconi and Verdini and in the left center to vote Alfano, Renzi and Berlusconi. They go hunting together and then give these two subjects the booty. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr President, this is a law that we cannot accept on the substance but, above all, on the method and process that is being drawn up. It was not discussed in the House because, with a subterfuge, it was sent back to the Commission. The hearings and discussions on the German model were given for good on a model that was totally the opposite. The projections have not been made and, when it is said that no one will be able to govern, it is because the newspapers have shown it to us with the accounts in hand, because in Parliament they have not even bothered to do this type of simulation. We want to do these things today, because it is our right; because without this right we are not in bicameralism, and not even in monocameralism since neither the House nor the Senate is granted this faculty. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Today at the Conference of the Leaders, we were faced with a predetermined path which, even, forced the prerogatives of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. So much so that, in the Commission's Bureau, we wondered what we could do, since we were Commissioners. By now it had been given the deadline to the law, even if it was an acid mozzarella. What could we do? We cannot even organize ourselves on this because they have set us up, between the vote at the Conference of the Leaders and the vote that we will now have to vote in this House. So, to the newspapers asking what we're going to do, we tell them we don't know. We must reconvene at the end of the sitting of this House to understand what has finally been decided. The fundamental point is that decisions are not taken here. Decisions have already been taken. We saw it with that hand that blanched the text to the House, transforming the vote of the Commission and of the Assembly, modifying it and giving us back a text that is not the one voted. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'm just going over two basic issues. The sons of Porcellum cloned the Porcellum in Italicum and when the latter was cleansed they disowned him and are now proposing the third re-edition of the same filthy drawing. Not even Bulgaria, which has been censored by the European Court of Human Rights for amending the electoral law in the last year before the vote, has managed to do so much. In this case it is being done with confidence. It is not possible, Mr President, that this House authorizes the Government to violate the accounting law, which requires the budget law to be presented by 20 October. If we anticipate the calendarization in the Assembly of what should be the budget session for October 24th, we are legitimizing the Government to break the accounting law. We are delegitimizing the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Budgets, as if to say that the clause of invariance, arbitrarily fixed in the Chamber, will remain such whatever the amending phase. The Senate Assembly, by voting on this calendar without any change, would establish that it makes no sense for the Budget Committee to say: that vote, that pronunciation has already been predetermined and in the same way the vote in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs appears totally empty. We are emptying these classrooms, we are saying that by now Italy has been taken away, taken away from the citizens who are waiting for the future by a Parliament that is finally legitimate and by a Government that really addresses the problems. We see it from the way, however, the provision for the abolition of vitalities has been covered up. The single party of the vitality, the single party of the financing of the parties and of the sanatories to their budgets has taken possession of Italy. This vote will tell us what the credibility of this future will be. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u21	Senator Endrizzi, what are your requests to change the calendar? ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you not to schedule the draft electoral law in this House at a time when we believe we are in the budget session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u22	Mr President, Senator De Petris spoke of the awareness of the vote by the voter, by the citizen, and I am speaking of the awareness of the vote by us Members. The electoral law, ladies and gentlemen, is an instrument of democracy, but it is also a very complex measure, which must be studied and deepened so that we can vote with conviction. Having to express a vote regulating the principles of government of my country, I feel the strong need to deepen the law, to have to study it and then to assume a determination that is in harmony with my conscience. In these minutes, the House of Deputies is sending back to the Commission a measure which may or may not be shared and which may be questionable, but I wonder how it is possible that after five readings it will be put back to the Commission for further consideration; how is it possible that a rule regulating demolitions should be deepened and dug out who knows where and then for electoral law it is asked to vote within twenty-four hours? I am a free Member and this is notable [[Comments of Senators Cats and Fornarus]] and I am willing to vote on a bill, even if it comes from a political force other than the one to which I adhere, but I must be convinced that what I am voting on goes in the direction of satisfying the interests of Italians. You cannot ask me to vote just a few hours after reading the text and to express my opinion in this House, which has its weight: whether or not I agree. Mr President, the draft electoral law is also full of quirks; you are a jurist and there are many lawyers in this House. The study needs to be deepened. We do not expect, as Senator De Petris said, that the Constitutional Court may intervene to reject the measure for unconstitutionality; we do a good job together. The electoral law must be done together, even with the 5 Star Movement. Let's do it right. Let's do it together. Then, some may not agree, but at least we do without the technical profile, the scientific correctness of the norm, because otherwise my colleague, Mrs De Petris, is right: as a Parliament we have yet another bad figure in the international context. For these reasons, Mr President, I would ask you to expunge the electoral bill from the calendar to allow me and others - I challenge those who will vote consciously in this House after a few days; perhaps only Senator Caliendo but not others - to express a vote that is an expression of careful reflection and therefore accomplished and conscious. I personally am unable to do so; if others are, do as they please. I have a duty to make this request for time so that we can study the text in order to vote. [[Applause from Senator Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u25	CRIMI (M5S). Mr President, for more than a month now, we have been debating in the Commission - we have been holding hearings for three weeks - the draft law voted and also proposed by the Democratic Party to the House of Deputies for the abolition of vitalities. For three weeks we have listened unnecessarily - we know that those who come to represent those who already receive a pension or vitality hardly will propose the cut - different subjects: from the Conference of the Regions to former parliamentarians to others. Someone even suggested that Fornero should come and talk about cutting the vitals. Fortunately, Mrs Fornero herself had the decency to avoid this further loss to the citizens. Well, this Parliament does not want to abolish a privilege, because that is what it is, it is useless that we hide it: a favorable treatment that allows, after four years and six months, to have a pension that a citizen will not even see before dying. I was saying, not to eliminate this privilege, we've been auditioning for weeks. That is why, Mr President, I call for the debate on the draft law on the abolition of vitalities to be scheduled as early as Thursday morning, because we must cut back on the vitals and not on democracy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Please cut off the vitality, don't cut democracy. (The Senators of the M5S Group put out signs with the following words: "# Cut off the vitality not democracy"). Mr Russo (PD). Ridiculous! SANTANGELO (M5S). Ridiculous is you! You haven't seen anything yet. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please remove those signs; they have also been taken up abundantly. You do not accept provocations or responses to provocations.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u28	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to confirm my Group's position at the Conference of Leaders. We are in fact in favour of the process outlined at the Conference and therefore for the examination of the draft electoral law in the Chamber next Tuesday. I believe that, in the face of a proposal for an electoral law that has a broad consensus in Parliament (when I speak of broad sharing I mean forces that are part of the majority of government and forces that are largely representative of the opposition), there is no question of shortcuts. There may be legitimate doubts about constitutionality, but this proposal meets the requirements that the Council had set: short lists and single-member colleges that allow the close relationship between elected and elected. Therefore, we are happy with the process decided at the Conference of Leaders. With regard to the issue of vitality, which was mentioned earlier, I would like to say to Senator Crimi that the hearings in the first Commission were in no way unnecessary. If the commissioners of the 5 Star Movement had listened to them, they would have learned for and against them, but most of the authoritative constitutionalists audited raised very large and motivated profiles of illegality. I repeat, therefore, that the position of the ALA-Civic Chosen Group is in line with the position I took at the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u31	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, it is very embarrassing that this debate is taking place in an assembly which has already discussed an electoral law which has been declared unconstitutional. Obviously we do not learn lessons and we are used to seeing Presidents of the Council, Ministers and Group Leaders who say one thing and then do another. We are also accustomed to making mistakes that we do not know how to correct, and I speak on this. Next week, if the House - as I hope - were to be freed from the work on the electoral law, which should continue in the Commission, it would be appropriate to correct the mistakes that this House, together with that of the House, has made, and in particular to evaluate the law on orphans in feminicide, by voting on the amendment that prevents the remedial effect to be attributed... [[Brusio]] Mr President, there is such a confusion in this House that we cannot speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u32	Colleagues, please. I can't hear Senator Lo Moro's request. Please lower your tones.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u33	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). I was talking about the issue of receiving damages even if the victim does not agree. It is no longer enough for the Ministers to make statements in the newspapers and for a majority to agree with the Minister in office, who does not dare to refer to the amendments of colleagues who are not a majority and who perhaps have already denounced these mistakes before; they must talk to each other. The press releases, the notes of agencies and even the unilateral promises of the individual Minister are no longer enough, which clearly has no contractual force in the Council of Ministers, so his promises are languishing. Just as we are no longer interested in hearing this orchestra of the various ministers on the ius solo, in which one says that it is necessary to vote on it and the other that it is not the time. We would like this House finally to deal with these two measures, the one concerning the orphans of feminicide and the one concerning ius solo, in order to assume responsibilities, rather than chasing at speed a law that would need greater weight. As proof of this, Mr President, I would just like to say one thing, which has nothing to do with the defects of constitutionality, but with the haste with which it is written. The first paragraph of Article 1 is rewritten, with a very questionable amendment technique, and it is written that this vote, direct and equal, free and secret - which I think will not be free, as the vote of the House is not free when you put the trust - is expressed in one ballot: to eliminate what was written (it is attributed to lists of candidates competing in single-name colleges) this void has been filled with an expression that does not make much sense, because you do not understand how it should be but a single electoral round, since there is no longer the ballot and since we are a single nation and a Republic that has a single electoral turn. I say this, to say that these laws are muddled and that constitutional defects are looked at too superficially, because then they will be evident when the Court is pronounced and there will be another Parliament: one has a short look. I would like to have a short look at what we can do in this parliamentary term and if we really want to do it, this electoral law, I would also be ready for cooperation, of course as everyone is ready, but it is not enough for four party leaders to agree. A majority exponent on a national television the other day said, indecently: well, there are contradictions, but what do you want? It was a compromise: one piece wanted one and one piece wanted the other. This is the electoral law. Double system, majority and proportional? One piece wanted one and one piece wanted the other. The nominated and not the preferences? One piece wanted one and one piece wanted the other. What serenity can be discussed in this House? I did not vote for Italicum, I do not have this stain; but those who voted for Italicum should reflect on the fact that they would like and that they claim to have us vote for the second time an unconstitutional law. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u36	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have to say that I am taking the floor with difficulty, because I have lost track of this debate. It seemed to me that, at some point, the debate took the road to obstruction, with several Members of the same Group taking the floor to propose different agendas to be submitted to this House. I don't think this is really the time for obstruction. I would like to say quietly that I understand that, in such an emotional climate as the one we have heard in many speeches, it is difficult to reason, but I would like to say why I shall be voting in favour of the timetable for the Conference of Leaders and I will vote against all the options that have been put forward here. I would like to remind the Senate first of all that we are at the end of the legislature. I would remind the Senate that we are only a few days away from the start of the budget session. I would like to remind the Senate that the Senate itself has decided that on Thursday of this week we will not be working, because we must leave the time - I believe legitimately - to Members who intend to participate in the electoral campaigns in Lombardy and Veneto. I would like to remind the Senate that then, from Monday 30, the Senate will not work for a week, because legitimately we have to give the time to parliamentarians who intend to participate in the electoral campaign in Sicily to go to Sicily to vote. In this situation, we must take into account the fact that Italy needs an electoral law; that is, it needs to avoid that in a few months the Italians go to vote with two very different electoral laws; the result of that vote would certainly be two Chambers in which there would be two different majorities. We have approved a timetable for working on the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for a week; the Commission has already met today, approved its timetable, set the deadline for hearings, for general discussion, for tabling amendments and the time when we are going to vote. We do not know whether the government will decide to put the question of trust or not; the government will decide it, but this will also depend on us, if we can demonstrate that we can discuss it in a different way than I have heard this afternoon. I would like to say to Senator De Petris, who has reported the question of ius soli, that the Democratic Party wants to approve the law on ius soli much more than you want. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from Mixed-SI-SEL and M5S Groups]] LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). But where? DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Stop! This has been going on for eight months! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris, have the surgery concluded; then you will ask for the floor. ZANDA (PD). I don't make statements without explaining why. We want the law on ius alone more than you because we do not want to bring it to the Chamber until we are sure that we have a majority of the votes in favour. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] TAVERNA (M5S). President, the senator must address you, not Senator De Petris. WOMAN (M5S). Stop! Mr Lezzi (M5S). Fat, wake up! ZANDA (PD). That's the truth! And you can't say otherwise. [[Applause from the PD Group. Senator De Petris' comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u37	Senator Zanda, address the assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u38	[[Comments of Senator De Petris]] Senator De Petris, this is not a debate, please. [[Protests of Senator De Petris]] Senator, I'll call you back to order. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). But it's him! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's not a debate. Senator Zanda, please. [[Reiterate protests by Senator De Petris]] ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I think that every senator should be given the opportunity to speak without being interrupted. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Marton]] In this particular case, I address myself not only to Senator De Petris, who should take into account that she was listened to, even when her speeches were not exactly linear, without ever being interrupted, but also to the 5 Star Group. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] - Listen up! - who are making so much noise about the law on ius soli, but they will not vote [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE. Protests from the M5S Group]] They're screaming now, but they don't want it! [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator D'Ascola. Comments from the M5S Group.]] On the other hand, they are talking about vitalities, knowing that the Commission has already determined the date on which the deadline for tabling amendments will expire. [[Comments of Senators Airola and Lezzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u39	Senator Lezzi, please. Don't interrupt who's talking. Let me talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u40	Mr Lezzi (M5S). He's been talking for half an hour! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let me talk! After that, anyone who asks to intervene intervene, but now let me speak. ZANDA (PD). Mr. President, I understand. I think they know that if they want to intervene they can and I think that this is part of the faculty of all of us. But I would like to say one thing, Mr President: the 5 Stars do not like linear parliamentary debates; they like to display meaningless cartels. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] ). We've seen it now. Their parliamentary technique is, at some point in the discussion, to pull out of the banquet a sign or a piece of paper and expose it. [[Comments of Senator Moronese]] But does this look like a dignified thing to you? I ask you, does that sound dignified to you? [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u41	Senator Zanda, address the assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u42	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I would like to address the House, but allow me also to address the sections of this House which have spoken so far! I want to say, Mr President, that we want a debate on the electoral law so that it can be adopted at a time when Parliament is given time. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Fascist! ZANDA (PD). Times determined by our decisions, because on the day we do not come to this House we decided it, and by the conjunction with the budget law. That is what we want, and we are asking for this House to approve. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u45	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would ask you to change the timetable and to include the biological will as one of the things we must do in this short legislative term. It would really be very nice if Parliament were to end this parliamentary term by adopting the law on biological will or the law on ius soli, which are laws of civilization. It would be much less beautiful if Parliament were to close this parliamentary term - alas marked by many pages that will not remain in history or perhaps do so, but not for wonderful reasons - instead with a resoundingly divisive and bullying act such as the adoption of a trusted electoral law. President Zanda, that is exactly the opposite of what you say. You have just said that, precisely because we are at the end of the parliamentary term, we must make the electoral law. It is a pity, Mr Zanda, that that Europe which you have referred to so many times - I have heard you say so many times in these four and a half years of parliamentary term - gives completely different indications from those of the Italian Parliament: for example, it almost denies the fact that a Parliament can change the electoral rules at the end of the parliamentary term, by majority and, moreover, with confidence. I would like to say, Mr President: be careful, because you will win in Parliament, but it had already happened some time ago. Yet history should teach something: even when you did constitutional reform, you won in Parliament. You had the numbers in Parliament, and even then, as today, by majority vote, you changed the Constitution. But then there was a little setback that you had not considered: the sovereign people spoke, in addition to Parliament. And the sovereign people have resoundingly denied your majority that you had built on reforms. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL, Art.1-MDP and M5S Groups]] You will see that it will end exactly the same way: again this time you are imposing, in this case, a change of electoral law and not a modification of the Constitution, by majority and you are doing so by relying on trust, but by putting the name of the Gentiloni Government Silveri in the sad list of those governments that, in fact, resorted to confidence to change the rules of the game, and you are doing so a few months after the end of the legislature. On the electoral law all the constitutionalists of this country - the same that your party has delighted during the constitutional campaign and the same to which the sovereign people have given resounding reason a few months later - are saying what will happen, namely that even the electoral law that you are doing will most likely fall under the manna of the Constitutional Court and you will have contributed more and more to ensure that in this country the consideration of public opinion towards the republican institutions was worse than the already dramatic one that has been determined in recent years. But how can you bear this responsibility? How can you not understand that if in this country, in the years to come, there will always be an increasing shift in public opinion from the institutions, this will be precisely because of fault and because of your bad choices? How can you not understand that you are responsible for what is happening all these years? Yet you should have understood at least the lesson that all those millions of Italians who voted for the constitutional referendum gave you. No, you don't! An entire people, very transversal and very different in many respects, have taken full responsibility for telling Parliament that the idea is not that a handful of elected people can change democratic rules in this way. And you really want to insist on this ground? Do you really want to build this kind of mechanism? Really, once again, do you submit blocked lists? Do you really, once again, build a hypothesis that democracy should be mortified in this way? If I were you, I would be very aware of what you are doing and I would be much more attentive to what the citizenship of this country has said over these months and years. The sovereign people have spoken very clearly and very clearly. It gave a very clear and very clear message on 4 December of some time ago: the fact that you have forgotten it so quickly and with the arrogance of a majority that is all here, it is all within this Parliamentary House, but it has no response in the real country, I think you will pay it very, very dear. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and Art.1-MDP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u48	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, I would like to stigmatise one issue because we would like to see a linear debate in Parliament on electoral law. Instead of imposing trust and blanching some gross error caused by the incompetence of those who write the laws, we would have preferred to be able to discuss quietly without making excuses. I still remember that night spent here, December 22, 2015, with the Finocchiaro, poor girl, bent in two to have to incardinare the Italicum to make Renzi happy, and you were in the period of the Budget session! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Even she, Senator Zanda, could not stand, bent in two to sleep because Matteuccio wanted her standing at night for his Italicum! [[Vivacious protests from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u49	Senator Lezzi, address the presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u50	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Excuse me. But now - I say this to you, President, I am not addressing the House - I would like to claim the possibility of the 5 Star Movement to deepen the electoral law with the hearings and to carry out an animated, complete and punctual debate in the Commission, as for four and a half years they have been giggling about the vitality, because the Democratic Party does not say that it has not understood its own law, that it has voted in the House but here it needs to understand, since it does not understand; they are "cretins" who have not understood that they must leave the retirement bust before guaranteeing the chair to come back in here! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the PD Group]] MIRABELLI (PD). But what must be done to get the President to intervene? Mr Lezzi (M5S). They should have the dignity to look the Italian people in the face and give up that indecent pension they don't deserve. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Lezzi, what is your request to change the calendar? Mr Lezzi (M5S). I ask for the hearings of all constitutionalists available to talk about the electoral law before making another papocchio and make the world laugh with the third unconstitutional electoral law. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Cardinal's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u51	I shall put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to implement the draft electoral law. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include the examination of further draft legislation. SANTANGELO (M5S). It is the measure on the ius soli! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please do not speak during the vote, Senator Santangelo. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I apologise, but perhaps I do not understand. There was a request to schedule the measure on ius soli. Are we voting on this request or not? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As you will know, every time we vote on the inclusion of draft legislation in the timetable, in case of a favourable outcome, we would then vote on the individual requests for inclusion of the measure on ius solo. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. WOMAN (M5S). Zanda, vote the ius alone now, vote it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. [[Applause from Senator Paglini.]] I recall that the requests for the insertion of draft laws, which we have heard, concerned the measures on biological will, the victims of feminicide, the ius soli and the vitality. These were the bills required to be included in the calendar. WOMAN (M5S). The Democratic Party denied it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u52	We greet the students, students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Arnaldo Fusinato" of Schio, in the province of Vicenza, who are following our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u53	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2208, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 2230. We shall resume the examination of Article 1 and of the amendments and agendas submitted to it. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,210. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. Mr President, I would also ask you not to proceed immediately to the vote but to have five minutes to take the dossier materially. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). As requested by Senator Santangelo, I briefly suspend the session. (The sitting was suspended at 5.29 p.m. and resumed at 538 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u56	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with amendment 1.210, which we are about to vote on, I propose that we delete, in paragraph 1, Art. The second sentence of paragraph 1 (a) is the words: "in any case" (as it is not clear whether the communication to the DAC by the party concerned or the trade union organizations of the measures deemed to be retortive is an obligation or a faculty. With words: "In any case," it becomes an obligation. Therefore, in addition to the many other inconsistencies in the text, it also appears that those who do not point out measures that may be retortive fail to fulfil their duty. If we delete the words: 'in any case', of course, it would remain the right to point out the retortive measures, which, moreover, there is also legislation in force (without the particular benefits provided for in the measure under consideration) and a bureaucratic excess would be avoided, so that everything must go up to the DAC. There are those responsible for anti-corruption in the various sectors and those should be enough, who have to look at a minimum of the reports, because otherwise they are useless. Assuming that whatever needs to be reported to ANAC would be like predicting that any report of crime - from one line on the car to any other type of crime - would have to end up in cassation. I would say that there would be a clogging of the cassation and, in this case, of the DAC. It seems to me that it is in the interest of the operation of this measure, whose installation I do not agree with, to delete the words 'in any case'. By avoiding that whatever fact should be communicated to the DAC, which is already charged with all sorts of fulfillment, or rather reporting, we ensure that the measure has at least a vague possibility of working, unless the intention is precisely to prevent the DAC from working, if not on reporting, so that the DAC will receive a billion totally useless reports, and then, if it wants to do some specific action in an arbitrary and discretionary way, it will be able to do so. I don't think anyone agrees with that kind of rule.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u57	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.210, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.13 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,211.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u60	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u61	The Presidency takes note of this. Amendment 1,212 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,213 tabled by Senator Mancuso, identical to amendment 1,214, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,215 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mancuso, identical to amendment 1,216 (text 2), tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.25 to 1.34 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,218, tabled by Senator Council and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,219 to 1.40 have been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1,222 (correct text), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1,223 has been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,224 tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1,225 (correct text), tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,226 (text2), tabled by Senators Ricchiuti and Lo Moro. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.227 is precluded by the adoption of the previous amendment. Amendment 1.57 has been withdrawn. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1,228.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u64	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I will make a very brief speech to point out that with the draft law we are giving protection. In the provision, as it came to us from the Chamber, these safeguards are removed in case there is a judgment of first instance unfavourable to the reporting agent. I would like to stress the fact that undoubtedly the process that may concern the reporting agent goes hand in hand with the other procedure, which is to verify the validity of the reports. This is a law of protection and the fact of interrupting this protection after the first degree of judgment seems rather punitive in relation to the general principle of our order, that is, that a final judgment is valid. Since this is a measure of protection, with amendment 1,228 I would ask that the two paths be matched and that paragraph 1, paragraph "Art. 54- bis • in paragraph 9, the words are replaced: "even by a judgment of first instance" are replaced by the following: "with a final judgment", noting that a judgment of first instance may not coincide with the whole procedure concerning the verification of the truthfulness and the validity of the reports, which at a later moment could return to the reporting agent all the authenticity of its report and then lead to a reversal in second degree. This is the proposal that I make and I think it is more consistent with our legal system and with the fact that this is a protection regulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u65	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1,228 tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 1,229, 1,230 and 1,231 have been withdrawn. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u68	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I am very sorry that Amendment 1,28, which was first signed by Senator Crimi, was withdrawn because, although not entirely, it tried to overcome a constitutional breach contained in Article 1 which would prevent me from voting in favour of the article. In Article 1, paragraph 3, it is stated that: The identity of the reporting agent shall not be disclosed. In the context of criminal proceedings, the identity of the reporting agent shall be covered by secrecy in the manner referred to in Article 329 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. This article provides - I'm remembering - that this identity is covered until the defendant can (it is not said that he should not) have knowledge of it, i.e. until the preliminary investigation is closed. However, Mr President, you know better than I that Article 111 of the Constitution (the one on the right trial) allows the defendant to take evidence in his defence. I refer to Article 111, which, together with Article 25 of the Constitution, is the constitutional foundation of defensive investigations. To represent the delicacy of the matter, I would add that always Article 111 of the Constitution, even with reference to the stage of the debate, states that the defendant cannot be condemned on the basis of the statements of a person who refuses to be questioned by the accused. This belongs to the next phase, but it is certainly a useful element in interpreting the constitutionality or not of this rule. I therefore ask you, Mr President, but also the whole House: how can a person take evidence in his defence, as expressly guaranteed by the Constitution in Article 111, if he does not know the name of the person who has made accusations against him? You know, Mr President - as I think all the senators know - that the case-law of the Constitutional Court on this point, with reference to Article 111, is sufficiently clear and states that, among the means of proof that can be assumed by the suspect/defendant in his defence, there are also those instrumentally placed to demonstrate the falseness of the declarations - for which objectively there would be no need to know the identity of the declarant - but also the reliability of the registrant. I wonder, then, Mr President, how can this fact be considered constitutionally legitimate, which goes to severely restrict Article 24 of the Constitution, the right of defence, in particular and in the face of the requirements of Article 111. The Senator of the 5 Star Movement Crimes and the other co-signatory senators, who also have towards the provision a very different vision, if you want, daring a current category, much more justiceist that guarantees, had posed the problem in its entirety, so much so that they inserted first of all the possibility of consent (I accuse, but I agree that my identity is revealed), which, according to the clear disposition of paragraph 3 of Article 1, is absolutely not possible. The same senators then added that in criminal proceedings the statements made by a person who does not give consent, and therefore remains anonymous, even until the closing of preliminary investigations, were not in itself sufficient for the subsequent process, in the absence of any further autonomous elements. That's correct. It is clear that you can vote on this rule, so much more a less changes little, and it is equally clear that when there is controversy on the point, similar to what happened for the anti-mafia code, you will sprinkle the head of ash and say that you will try to fix the matter with a subsequent intervention. The basic reality, Mr President, is that this small provision, which could have been laid down or at least softened, following the position proposed by the 5 Star Movement, is in clear violation of the right of defence and the right to fair trial, which - it is useless to remember here - are fundamental rights of our Constitution, considered in the international order as inviolable rights. All this is tantamount to saying: go ahead in this foga of justice; a fuss, Mr President - I have a little memory of legal studies - which motivates the assertion that the objective to be achieved justifies the means by which it is achieved. All of this makes a mess of the code of criminal procedure, that is, of the code placed to protect the guarantees of the weakest, which is, in fact, the defendant. Go ahead, keep turning the Constitution upside down - to tell the truth, you've tried hard taking only slaps from the Italian people - but this rule will fall before the Constitutional Court because it is asymmetrical not only to our Constitution but also to our international order. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and FL groups (ID-PL, PLI) and Senator Stefani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u71	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the Senators of the Italian Socialist Party will vote against this article because, as Mr Palma has already mentioned, it limits the right to defence guaranteed by our Constitution and, in particular, by Articles 24 and 111 on the right process. In a democratic country, the limitation of the right to defence is one of the most serious issues that can be introduced within the legal system. We are doing this in this article: we are creating the conditions for citizens not to be able to defend themselves against accusations that can be infamous and not justified by any concrete facts. I have already said this in the general discussion: this is a measure that can put in place rules of accounts, attacks on competitors, questioned positions within the public administration simply because someone is annoyed and the accuser creates a subsequent protection because he is a delator (the substance is this). Faced with this degeneration of the right fight against corruption and illegal behaviour in the public administration, we say no, because there is certainly some other method that allows us to have a responsible and respectful public administration of the rule of law, and citizens convinced that to do our duty we must not be rewarded. Doing your duty is precisely a duty of the citizen and does not need awards or special treatments [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] Those who do not have the courage to do their duty do not deserve any protection. [[Applause from Senators Malan and Pagnoncelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u74	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, paragraph 3 of Article 1 expresses something that is approachable to the concept of delaction, an ancient and hateful phenomenon. Svetonius, in his work "Life of the Twelve Caesars," among the few virtues he attributed to the last of his caesars, namely Domitian, acknowledged that he had opposed and prosecuted the delators and delation. I am thinking of Article 54- bis, paragraph 3, of Legislative Decree n. 165 of 2001, as amended by the draft law under consideration, which makes - as Senator Palma has already said much better than me - the consent of the reporter to the disclosure of his identity also the fate of the disciplinary procedure activated on the basis of the alert. It is a rule that produces a result that is not only paradoxical but also unfair. Whoever was blamed on the basis of an alert in a context in which the identity of the reporter is indispensable for his defence, would probably see himself acquitted yes, but still subject to a procedure of which he would always and still unknown the scaturigo. Senator Buemi says well: it is not possible to imagine that the possibility of defence is not given to a subject who is blamed, even in the context of disciplinary proceedings. I'm not Svetonius and I'm not Domitian. However, like Svetonius and Domitian, I object to a measure that affirms something that is outside the legal culture of a democratic country.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u76	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u77	CALIENDO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I rise in dissent from the Group because I do not feel that I am voting against or in favour of it, and I explain the reason for that, which you will certainly take better than I do. This rule is in part ridiculous and partly inapplicable. Paragraph 3 of Article 1 states: If the dispute is based, in whole or in part, on the reporting and knowledge of the identity of the reporting agent is indispensable for the defence of the accused, the report will be usable for the purposes of the disciplinary procedure only in the presence of the consent of the reporting agent to the disclosure of his/her identity. My question is not to you, Mr President, but to the rapporteur: how do I know that it is necessary, in the disciplinary procedure for my defence, to know the identity of the reporter? I don't know anything. The identity of the reporter is covered, there is news that concerns me and that has given rise to a disciplinary initiative and I have to ask the identity of the reporter because it is necessary for my defense? Do we realize that this is absurd and impossible? How do I blame myself for thinking that the identity of the reporter might be useful to my defense? Unless he's leaking a report about both of us, so the defendant will have an idea who the reporter is. A rule of this kind exposes us to ridicule, because it is not only inapplicable, but it does not make sense. I therefore turn to the rapporteur: make a correction. There was an amendment by the League which proposed to remove this sentence, but it was rejected. Do you realize that this is just a useless phrase, that doesn't make sense and that none of us can understand? Let alone when it has to be applied! The first rule of a legislator is the clarity not only of the rule, but also of the purpose it pursues. Since the aim is not understood here, I would like to understand, before voting on Article 1, whether there is a minimum of attention on the part of the rapporteur, to explain this rule to us, or to review his position on the amendment of the League.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u80	COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, the Senators of the Freedom Federation, in the wake of Senator Falanga (not necessarily Svetonio), will also vote against this article. However, when we declare this, we hope, on the basis of the considerations and the appeal made by Mr Caliendo, that there will be further reflection on the part of the rapporteur, who in a totally metallic way (I do not mean absent) participates in the discussion of this measure. I'm not sure the norm is completely unenforceable, as Senator Caliendo claims. However, only from the point of view of applicability, very pertinent considerations have been raised here regarding compliance with the Constitution. According to Senator Falanga, the deliter is a hateful figure; but, no matter how hateful the deliter is in Svetonius Rome, let me say that just as hateful are the indifference, the indifference and (if I can use this expression) the outspokenness of a Parliamentary Assembly in the face of the right to a fair trial and the right to defence that would end up being completely pleonastic, as observed by Senator Caliendo. I do not want to go back to last week, Mr President, but you will remember that in this House not only I, but also, precisely, Senator Caliendo, have pointed out to you that this measure has never gone through the Commission justice. She told us it wasn't exactly like that. For us who are not members of that Commission, that is exactly how it was and the documentation of the file testified to it. I believe that this debate requires the good faith - where there is still one - of the rapporteur not to leave the hope that, on behalf of many of us, Mr Caliendo has expressed in this House; otherwise the Senators of the Freedom Federation will vote, as all the previous Members have said, in an opposite way. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI) and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u81	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 1 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.0,200 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u82	I address my greeting to a delegation, visiting Rome and present in the gallery, of the association of members of parliament and former cantonal deputies of the canton of Neuchâtel, Switzerland, who follow our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u83	We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u84	Mr President, there are some amendments which seek as a whole to restrict the application of rules, the irrationality of which, at the risk of inapplicability and unconstitutionality, has been extensively investigated by my colleagues Palma and Caliendo. Article 2 deals with an even more sensitive issue than the previous one: there are protections and sanctions against those who report irregularities also in the private sector. I must say that in this case the norm is increasingly acrobatic and increasingly difficult to limit. My amendments tend to restrict their application. Amendment 2.202 calls for illegal conduct to be reported within seven days of the disclosure, in order to prevent reporting from being an expression of the reporting agent's civic sense, but a sort of professional life insurance, to be taken out in the event of a fear or a measure being taken that could harm the person from a work point of view. Amendment 2,200 contains the same proposal as in amendments I tabled to Article 1. It calls for these reports to be based on precise facts and leading to serious violations of the model of organisation and management. Therefore, this would not be any indication, although I heard some colleagues last sitting say that the measure is very good for its generality, which is quite theoretical, but in practice it means incitement to the general alert, which is likely to be inconclusive, but which can function as protection for a worker who thinks he is the subject of any measure, including the right measures taken in relation to his working situation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u85	Mr President, I should like to concentrate on a few points. I find that Article 2, entitled "Protection of the employee or collaborator who reports illegal in the private sector" has been much denied within this law. While there has been a discipline that has tried to clarify - although, in my opinion, more could be done because the law could be more certain and clearer and I will explain it better in the explanations of vote - Article 2 is absolutely inadequate. The text that came from the House was already inadequate; it has, in my view, been worsened and not improved by the changes made in the Commission. The expression: "and based on precise and agreed de facto elements" has been added. In other words, private reporting requires a precision that is not required by the reporting agent in the public. I have already mentioned this in the general debate: let us bear in mind that, in the recent legislation on banks and, therefore, on the private sector, which the European Union has asked us to accept with regard to anti-money laundering, a full article gave a series of indications and principles to which we should have followed operational guidelines, precisely in the direction of protecting the reporter; and we are talking about private. Now, instead of making progress, with these definitions we are taking steps backwards also with respect to the existing introducing an obligation relating to precise and agreed de facto elements, which we ask the private and not the public, when it is precisely in a certain type of private that the reports have proved to be more important and relevant also for the purposes of a collective interest. Let us remember that banks are a particularly sensitive issue. President Casini isn't here right now, but he's gonna be cool. Also with regard to the private sector, even to letter d) a principle has been introduced that is not even in conformity with the organizational model that provides for legislative decree n. 231 of 2001 because we say that they are introduced in the disciplinary system, adopted pursuant to paragraph 2, sanctions against those who violate the measures of protection of the reporting agent, as well as those who carry out with malicious or serious fault reports that prove unfounded. Well, this has been eliminated for the public during the work in the Commission by deleting an article and here it is introduced in private, moreover completely inconsistent with the principles of the organizational model because the latter concerns the organization of the prevention of corruption. Those who carry out with malicious or gross negligence reports that prove to be unfounded have a path that concerns the plaintiff and the related procedures consequent to the same. That is why Article 2 is particularly negative, precisely for the protection of the private sector. We do not foresee, therefore, a certain path in the private for the reports, on the other hand we ask the reporter of the private to have a rigor, a discipline, a concentration - so to speak - that is not consistent with the concept of reporting itself. I have tabled an additional amendment, Mr President, which I would like to explain now because it is consistent with the speech made. Amendment 2.0.204 aims to give a structure that is certain and clear and that gives indications both to the private, therefore to the company, and to the reporting agent so that the reports can be made and for the reporting path to be authentic. I do not understand, and I would like to know from Senator Tonini that I hope he will explain it to me, because the amendment has been considered impervious under Article 81 of the Constitution and the advance, Mr President, that by not understanding what the expenditure provided for in the proposal is, I will certainly ask for it to be voted on. I am more aware of the improcability, although relatively, of amendment 2.0.203 concerning the establishment of a fund, but my proposal also sets out what resources could be used to feed this fund. At this point, Mr President, I would like briefly to make one point: during the general debate (curiously some Members have mentioned it as an existing fact) we have seen that there is even a premium in the United States for reporters, i.e. for those who are supposedly reporting. In fact, during the debate in the House, the concept of the prize had been surpassed since everyone was aware, the whistleblowers in the first place, of the fact that receiving a prize can trigger that Pavlovian reflection that still takes place in this Chamber and that calls the reporter of the author or even sycophant, that is, the one who makes reports for the certainty of receiving a prize. The idea of the prize had been overcome but the need for a fund has not been exceeded, so much so that agendas have been presented asking the government to set up one. Now, I do not understand why agendas should be accepted when we have an amendment here that also indicates where to go to get the money, and these are resources that are linked to the recovery mechanism through the reports. In essence it is a virtuous circle that closes with the certainty of recovering resources to give those safeguards that are the content and the main meaning of this law. Another aspect that is very close to my heart is the contractual clauses on fidelity and confidentiality. In view of the prevailing public interest, they are null and void. This is the content of amendment 2.209 which I do not consider to be exceeded by the rapporteur's amendment 2.0.200 because in the latter there is something that is found in several passages of this bill; that is, even in relation to Article 1, there is a special condition that we do not involve in this responsibility for preventing corruption for all those who have professional advice or assistance with bodies, undertakings or individuals. Well I believe that this is wrong because at the moment we embrace the idea that the prevention of corruption pushes us to call all citizens and to give them a protection in a completely opposite way - I believe - to Senator Buemi's observations, completely spanned in the air with respect to the daily reality of our country; it embraces the principle of involvement of all citizens certainly not in a delation activity, but in the exercise of their civic sense with responsibility; for this reason I do not think it is right to carve out around these figures a sort of area of lawfulness, of constraint and of not involvement in this responsibility. I therefore propose that this principle be reinstated. Finally, with Amendment 2,207, I would like to ask that the provisions of Article 1 of this law apply, where compatible, in order to compensate for the serious imbalance that, in my opinion, exists between protection in the public and protection in the private sector. I would remind you that banks are part of the private sector, and I therefore believe that we need to respond to a request which is first and foremost addressed to us by the European Union. [[Applause from Senator Centinario.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u88	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I am sorry that the Commission has not been able to see the measure and the amendments. I have no choice but to try to direct the rapporteur to a change, and also to draw the attention of Senator Ichino, who has had the ability to defend the measure in our examination. In particular, I would like to highlight two important points, in my view, in relation to Article 2. The first concerns wrongdoing. It is clear that the individual employee is asked to report illegal conduct. I am still reminding this House of an issue on which I have never had an answer. Faced with about 300-350 cases of corruption that land in Italian courts every year, we have an advertising campaign that speaks of 5-6 million cases of corruption every year. In fact, surveys show that Italy is one of the most corrupt countries in the world. I remember five years ago we introduced a rule that I would like to see monitored. In all the Italian municipalities the anti-corruption plan was mandatory. In each of the 8,000 Italian municipalities there is therefore an official against corruption who responds personally, until the suspension of the salary or from the assignment, if it appears that he has not adequately monitored. This is a piece of equipment which does not seem to me to have had great results. According to this diagnosis we are all corrupt; 5 million cases of corruption per year, as the opinion polls say, represent a dramatic and intolerable situation. By stating, however, that the worker denounces illegal conduct, we are at the level of the crime, of an attitude of the private and of someone who takes advantage of within the company. However, we do not stop at this point because it is added that the complaint can be made about unlawful conduct or violations of the model of organization and management of the institution. We're going on a whole other floor here. Senator Ichino, I have thought about it and I notice that there is a large absentee here: the union. Inside a private company, at the moment in which the individual employee is given the possibility, the faculty, indeed, is encouraged to report, with all the critical issues arising regarding anonymity, illegal, therefore substantially offenses, it is also charged to denounce or to make present the violations of the model of organization and management of the institution. I thought, and I also turn to the left, that in a civil and democratic country, this was the position of the union. What does the union in a company do if it does not work to protect the interests of the individual worker in dialectic with the management? I have been informed by the trade unions and it has been pointed out to me that when the President of the banks was called up, where this mechanism has already been introduced, they have done so in black and white, according to the provisions of collective bargaining. I have never been an advocate of the union or of what is sometimes the union invasion, but from this one cannot pass, with such a measure, to not give in private companies any role of representation and also of denunciation to the union, because it happens that there is also for that. When we talk about violations of the model of organization and management of the entity, I understand that it is the union, within the company, and in dialectic with the property, to have to discuss, around a table, issues related to the organization and management. Or is he the individual employee? What title does the individual employee have to discuss the management or organization of the institution, perhaps even in anonymous form? I would therefore ask the rapporteur whether it is possible to introduce the same clause that has been introduced into the agreement on banks, namely that this should be done in accordance with collective bargaining, so that the union will not be totally bypassed and even delegitized in relation to its function. And that doesn't seem like a little provocation to me. Then of course it remains to be understood, but I would like to hear it from the rapporteur and the Government, because we move from the denunciation of illegal conduct to the reporting of violations of the model of organization and management of the institution, which seem to me two completely different things, but which certainly involve, within the company, the danger of a personalized management, covered by anonymity. There is a risk that some may use this possibility not only to denounce abnormal situations but also instrumentally and for a thousand other reasons, totally overtaking the role of the union.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u89	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and on the agenda presented.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u90	Mr President, I am against all the amendments to Article 2, with the exception of amendment 2.203 on which I am in favour. On the agenda, Mr G2.1 I am against. I also object to all the additional amendments, with the exception of Amendment 2.0,200, on which the opinion is in favour. If you will allow me, Mr President, I would like to make a general point: our legal system has already introduced general rules on the protection of employees who report offences. This is not new: we did it with Law No. 190 in 2012 concerning the prevention and repression - so headlines the law - of corruption in the public sector. We have also done so through a change of administrative responsibility for private bodies - Article 2 of the draft law is dealt with in our examination - by legislative decree No 231 of 2001. Obviously, there is a change in the administrative liability of private entities resulting from offences. What does the norm say, why else do we risk being misunderstood? The discipline provides for the responsibility of bodies, associations or private individuals, as well as of public economic bodies, for crimes committed by some persons in the interest or for the benefit of the institution. The responsibility is therefore of the private bodies, but it is excluded - this is stated in Legislative Decree No 231 - if those bodies adopt and implement a model of organization and management that meets a certain number of requirements. Today we simply intervene with a further definition, to protect the reporting agent, of those requirements and not of the general framework that is already clear in terms of responsibilities and how to be excluded. In view of this, precisely because our order already clearly indicates how the system works, but it does not clearly indicate what must be done who is in this difficult and uncomfortable situation, that is, a person who in his work has become aware of what seems to him an illegal activity, we have tried to give a series of answers. That is why the opinion is against all the amendments tabled by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u91	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u92	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.4. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Mancuso. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.12, tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u95	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Article 2 establishes new obligations for all companies and even associations, even without legal personality, acting on Legislative Decree No 231 of 8 June 2001. Article 1 states that a private employee - even the word used is "collaborator," therefore very broad - who has reported some irregularities in the public administration, even if it has nothing to do with the company in which he works, has the right to special protection to avoid measures that worsen his working conditions, even of an organisational nature. This is what is laid down in Article 1 and - what is worse - the person responsible for any measures that damage the employee is subject to a fine of 5,000 to 30,000 euros. This is an already insane forecast in itself: a private person - let us imagine a private company manager, the owner of a very small company - who takes a measure that makes the working situation of an employee more burdensome is punished by a fine of 5,000 euros if the latter, without his knowledge (since the identity of the reporting agent cannot be revealed, pursuant to paragraph 3, of Article 1), has reported an irregularity, an unlawful act in a public administration that perhaps has nothing to do with the company for which he works. It is really difficult to embrace the irrationality and madness of this norm. Article 2 provides for a rule, not worse because I think it is impossible, but just as irrational. First of all, the legislator has imposed on everyone, in the public sector, the anti-corruption officer who, as Mr Giovanardi mentioned earlier, is personally responsible for any act of corruption that occurs in an area where he is responsible for the fight against corruption not already if he has participated in the act or has favoured it in any way, but if he is unable to demonstrate that he has taken the necessary preventive measures (which would be an annual plan against corruption and rotation of tasks). Colleagues, note well that these forecasts also apply to the many municipalities that have only one employee. This sole employee, paid by the taxpayer, must waste valuable time - during which he should render services to the population of his municipality - to make a report explaining how he prevents corruption activities of which he himself may be the sole author, being the only employee. I mean, it's a huge waste of time. This measure introduces similar obligations in private companies: not only in companies, but even in entities without legal personality. Therefore, even in the most innocent of activities, such as a sports club or a pro-local, if it appears that an executive or someone who is entitled to act on behalf of this association has committed some of the offences for the benefit of the company itself, the company suffers the consequences and is held responsible itself. Therefore, if the person who committed this act is not the President, the President will be the latter to suffer the consequences, unless he demonstrates that he has taken a series of measures, including the one indicated in Article 6 of Legislative Decree No 231 of 2001, for which he must demonstrate (with so much as circulars that he must prove that he has come to the knowledge of all those who operate within this company or, I repeat, association even without legal personality) that he has taken a series of measures, establishing, among other things, one or more channels that allow the persons indicated to submit, to protect the integrity of the institution, circumstantial reports. These channels, then, must guarantee the confidentiality of the identity of the reporting agent; and then not enough one or two channels but serve, pursuant to Article 2-a, letter b) of Decree No 231, as introduced by Article 2 of this provision, alternative channels of reporting. But already in point (a) it is said that they serve one or more channels; therefore, the second should be clearly alternative to the first. However, if several channels are established for the purposes of point (a), others must be established for the purposes of point (b). Then we need measures to guarantee identity. How do these predictions translate into practice? In the fact that all the associations and companies, even those with only one employee (such as the craftsman with only one employee rather than the plumber with only one employee), who should think only about doing his job, will have to establish for this only employee a channel (making nice circulars) through which to demonstrate to have reported to this employee that there is the way to denounce irregularities and, therefore, the way to be protected. A series of red tape that will produce mountains of paper but for which no cover is needed, because so much the private pays. Therefore, the private sector is forced to work in black because, if it does not work in black, it risks sanctions for the mere fact that it has not fulfilled a series of bureaucratic obligations. We also think about the case of non-profit associations, sports clubs and any kind of association, such as pro-local associations. Perhaps a sports club, in the person of its president or one of its managers, has worked hard to get some space for children and young people to have a place to train and practice sports; if it turns out that he has committed an irregularity and that he has been busy beyond the law, the society itself is responsible for it. Therefore, all these associations will have to equip themselves with these bureaucratic structures, which to large companies, since they already have those who deal with these issues, involve all in all only a few more jobs for all those who are bureaucratic. For a private individual, however, such obligations involve stealing time from the activity that should be devoted to making a profit, whether it is a commercial or industrial company, or to carrying out the activity that is the object of the association, in the case of a non-profit company or for assistance. So here we have, in the first place, a militarization of public administration where everyone has to fear everyone and, in particular, they have to fear general warnings. In fact, if the alert is generic it will not be able to give rise to any action against those who have made it because, if you point out a precise fact, only in that case you can recognize the slander and, in the long run, this person will be punished. However, the general alert allowed under Article 1 will be rewarded. Here, too, we also have the bureaucratization of private companies. And then you are surprised if companies prefer black and prefer to move to other countries. I therefore propose not the removal of these obligations, but that there be a substantial guarantee that persons reporting irregularities in the public administration will be protected and protected from back-up measures, but I say no to the implementation of plans, counter plans, circulars and bureaucracy, which cost those who do them and whose cost is passed on to anyone who enjoys the services of these institutions, both from the monetary point of view and from the point of view of lower services provided. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u96	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,200, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2,201, which is identical to Amendment 2,202.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u99	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with amendment 2.202 I propose that illegal conduct be reported within seven days of the date when the reporter becomes aware of it, in order to ensure that in relation to these reports, even if there is always a risk that even in this case the self-guarantee aspect will prevail rather than that of reporting irregularities, at least there will be an immediate relationship between the moment when the reporter becomes aware of the unlawful or alleged unlawful or something very general described in Article 1 and the one in which he reports it; frankly, seven days would seem to be a reasonable measure, at any time. I am referring to an employee, perhaps not the most brilliant, and not those who work hard for their work, so one of those who pour it on their colleagues, who must do their work in addition to their own. Let's say that these, despite all the limitations that we already know very well exist today, are the subject of any measure, even organizational, for which his working conditions become less well-off, as happens every day. In any type of company, in fact, there are organisational changes that sometimes improve the working conditions of a worker but sometimes worsen it; these things happen. Well, when he is subject to such measures he remembers that perhaps eight years earlier he had heard someone say that perhaps the company - or even another - was doing something irregular against the public administration; so he earns this insurance against any measure that might harm him. Some say that this cannot be the case, because he should have made the alert first and then suffered the consequences. In Article 1, I had tabled the amendment which laid down this, but this aspect was rejected in the text under consideration. Moreover, since paragraph 3 of Article 1 states that the anonymity of the alert is guaranteed, therefore that the reporting person is not known, at that point it may well not be known even the date on which the alert was made. In short, the draft law under consideration starts from a good purpose, that of protecting those who report irregularities of the public administration but then the text leads to a drift that leads it on the other side; let us go here and there in the direction suggested by the title. For now I would like to point out that, except for that amendment which has changed very little (but always better than nothing) Article 1, which was voted on earlier, the changes compared to the text voted by the House were all in a pejorative sense: the text of the House provided for good faith, a somewhat generic definition but in this case it has been deleted. I know that many (and I think I am cautious to say many) of those who are voting on this measure are aware that it is not appropriate; however, if we do not change it significantly, then the reality, with its consequent responsibilities, is the one that is being voted on; it is not that one law is being voted on and then another law is going into force.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u100	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,201, tabled by Senator Mancuso, identical to amendment 2,202, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.203 tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.204, tabled by Senator Council and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.205 tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.206.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u101	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u103	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to declare my vote in favour of this amendment which provides - and this should have been done earlier - for sanctions against those who have had criminal responsibilities for offences of slander or defamation in the context of the reports provided for herein. Colleagues, this is one of the many problems that emerge with this bill. Some say that there are such measures in the United States of America: it is true that we are not opposed to protecting those who signal irregularities in the public administration - already provided for in existing laws - and we would not be opposed to adding more if necessary. However, we must bear in mind that our reality is different. We know very well how complicated it is, particularly in the public administration, to take disciplinary action against an employee: we must take note of it; someone may be pleased, someone else may not, but we must take note of it. In the United States, for an employee who makes a report that proves to be unfounded, there would also be no need for the amendment tabled by Senator Council and other senators to say that that employee can be fired from one minute to the next. That is not the case with us, we know very well how labour law and judgments work, which are sometimes made, I think, in a more appropriate way to what common sense should be, in the interests of all workers, at other times seem a little ideological; but how does the employer know what kind of judgment he will be facing? Having some clarity on this front wouldn't be bad. It is therefore useless to compare the situation with what is happening in the United States, where redundancies are extremely easy - in my opinion too much - and then forget that there is a huge difference. To those who say to do like the United States of America I say that we cannot do like them on one side and do nothing on the other side. In this amendment, at least, it is called upon that, in respect of those who have committed offences such as slander or defamation, the sanction of the interruption of the employment relationship is explicitly possible. That would be a way of balancing, so that vaguely we would justify the introduction of criteria that are not of our system and our legislation. To introduce them in this way is truly a reproach that does not take account of reality.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u104	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.06 tabled by Senator Council and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.207 tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.13, tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.15.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u107	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Amendment 2.15 proposes to rationalise paragraph 2-c, referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 2, in order to make the rule applicable and not excessively bureaucratic. The problem with many regulations adopted in this prestigious Chamber, often with the best intentions, is that there are undesirable side effects. We would like to impose a series of obligations which have the idea of being preventive in relation to the commission of crimes, but here, in fact, it is not a matter of preventive measures to the commission of crimes, but of measures that aim to prevent possible retaliation to the detriment of those who perhaps report irregularities in the general public. All this great foresight, which, moreover, if used also in other areas, perhaps would make more responsible decisions, forgets a fact: that whenever sanctions of this kind are established, they are imposed on all subjects, in particular those who have no intention of committing crimes against the public administration or of carrying out retortive measures against those who report any crimes within the public administration, endless bureaucratic procedures with which it must be shown in advance that they did not want to commit a crime or harm anyone who had reported a crime. We come to a truly psychotic level: any person, whatever his behavior, has to fear not to commit a crime - because we must fear to commit a crime - but not to have done bureaucratic work justified by the fact that they should prevent or make it easier to report a crime. But do we realize? I fear that these addresses will then be applied in other fields. If we use the same road traffic criteria, we should adopt rules in favour of those who report, perhaps in a general way, that a certain driver has committed an irregularity. Anyone on the road should then be shown to have taken steps to facilitate the complaint by anyone who might see someone suspected of committing a traffic offence. But here we really have a manicomial stuff; in comparison Kafka's trial is a linear thing and with all the guarantees for the defendant. I mean, let's get back to reality. Attention, thanks to Italian citizens we have bicameralism, but let's not throw it away, because if the House approves a rule of this kind and then we leave it practically unchanged, see that this stuff becomes law and will cause serious damage to the public administration. The only positive part will be the unenforceable part and then it will probably lead us, as Senator Palma has pointed out, to a decision of the Constitutional Court. But in the meantime there would be damage to the public administration and to the productive fabric of the country, which need to be able to work to achieve the results that are aimed both the public administration and the private companies, and not to fill mountains of paper to show that you are honest. It shows that you are honest and that you work well working well and not committing crimes. Those who commit crimes must be punished; those who report those who commit crimes must be protected, but there can be no flood of cards to prove good faith or that there was no bad faith. Such a thing is not possible. This measure was born - I emphasized it already in the last sitting - to make a beautiful press conference when the law comes, saying that it is against corruption and receiving of the "evviva" but nothing else. In fact, these rules, implemented, will not achieve any results in the fight against corruption, but will achieve excellent results in paralyzing public administration and in creating new costs to both the public and the private.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u108	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.15 tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.208, tabled by Senator Council and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Endrizzi and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2,17. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.209 tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G2.1, tabled by Senator Crimi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 2 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.0,200, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on the first part of Amendment 2.0.201.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u111	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Amendment 2.0.201 was rejected by the rapporteur, but I do not understand what this contrary opinion means. I understand that the rapporteur may be against what my amendment provides, but, in the absence of a forecast similar to that of my amendment or against it, I cannot understand when these provisions apply. My amendment provides that the provisions of this law shall apply to offences committed after the entry into force of this law. This additional article is intended to clarify, even if it may not clarify in the direction the rapporteur considers appropriate, but then it should be clarified how the rule works. Let us assume that this law will enter into force at the end of the year (we hope not); an offence committed last summer, if it is reported in the course of next year (i.e. when the law will be in force), will give rise to all the protection provided. But I don't know that, because there is the principle of non-retroactivity of laws. This is not clear, because one thing is the illegal event, but here you do not punish the illicit event (note well). I see that for Senator Ichino everything is very clear: if he wants, he will take the floor and I will be happy to listen to him. This is not about punishing the unlawful act, because there is no intervention on the original illegal act, but it is about the protection against the signal; therefore it is supposed to be that, but then there is the fact of secrecy. In short, here we do not understand what the application is, but we understand for sure that, within the framework of indeterminateness, the preventive and defensive measures will increase by all those (practically all) who can be affected by this law. Let us remember that there is an act, the fine of 5,000 euros up, towards those who (we must assume even without knowing it) take organizational measures that damage someone who has reported a crime in the public administration, but who has the right to remain anonymous and not to be known by the one who adopts these organizational measures. Therefore, no one will take any more organizational measures that can abstractly harm someone, with great efficiency from the public administration, that I already imagine. I believe that everyone would be happy to improve the efficiency of public administration today, but in this way it becomes completely inadvisable to assume any act that can reorganize public administration, because, in reorganizing, it may be that someone suffers some discomfort. If this someone has made an alert, the head of the organizational measure costs from 5,000 to 30,000 euros, so they will be careful to take any action.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u112	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u114	ICHINO (PD). Mr President, I would like to remind Senator Malan that the principle of non-retroactivity concerns the substantive criminal law, that is, the one that punishes the crime, certainly not the rules aimed at preventing and investigating even crimes or any irregularities committed previously.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u115	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u117	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have listened to Senator Malan and Senator Ichino's speech, but I think there has probably been an interruption in the "channel of understanding." Senator Malan, who clearly referred to the general principle tempus regit actum, posed a very serious problem. The legislation provided for in this bill, with all the protections concerning the reporting worker, applies to the reporting agent who reported before the entry into force of this law and who, hypothetically, has his name already revealed? It is a part of the discipline, which completely escapes from the tempus regit actum principle and which, therefore, places a legal gap with reference to a very important fact, in my opinion, which is, in fact, the protection of the reporting worker. With the consequence that the worker who will signal after the entry into force of the bill will certainly have the protections referred to in this bill, protections that, in my opinion, are very nebulous instead with reference to the worker who indicated before its entry into force. Senator Malan's amendment only meant that.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u118	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.0.201, tabled by Senator Malan and other Senators, until the words "of this Act" are added. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.0.202 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.4 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. ENDRIZZI (M5S). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.4 tabled by Senator Endrizzi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.0.203, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MUSSINI (Mixed). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.0.203.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u121	MUSSINI (Mixed). Mr President, I believe that, in order to strengthen this law, it is absolutely necessary to create the fund provided for in this amendment, which is covered by the sanctions themselves. We do not understand, therefore, what is the "dumping" of this proposal, while we understand what could be the benefits that would come to the whole community and to the economy from the adoption of this rule with a proper functioning of the structures that we have foreseen. I therefore call for the amendment to be adopted to include this additional article.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u122	In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.0.203, tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.0.204, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MUSSINI (Mixed). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In accordance with Rule 102-a of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.0.204, tabled by Senator Mussini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We have completed the examination of the articles. As agreed, the final explanations of vote will take place in the afternoon sitting tomorrow at 11 a.m. I therefore refer you to the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u125	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I will be very brief because I know that this House is overworked, but I would like to draw your residual attention to a report just now. In 2016, 50,000 young people aged 18 to 34 left Italy. Let's ask ourselves how the government responds to this news. He responds - we know and we will see it with the financial - again proposing, in the wake of what the previous Executive had done, incentives and tax reliefs for companies to hire young people between the ages of eighteen and thirty-four. The Government ignores the fact, which is precisely 2016 and which shows that the policy of incentives to enterprises did not work, but above all ignores the actual condition of young people in our country, who leave not only because they do not find work, but because when they find it it is in time, precarious and paid badly. The children hope to be able to invest their lives in something useful and important for the destiny of the entire country and they do not find in the demeaned work that offers them an adequate perspective. Therefore, I would like to say to the senators - I have put a question on the subject that I hope will have some attention - that the Constitution provides for an alternative line to that followed by the Government Gentiloni Silveri and the Renzi Government. I refer to Article 9, which reads: 'The Republic shall promote the development of culture and scientific and technical research'. This maximum of the Constitution was followed in the first twenty years of the Republic and not completely betrayed in the next twenty. However, later, it was completely abandoned in the name of a historical liberalism and absolutely dispersive of capacity. Today there is a huge number of precarious workers in research institutes built in the first twenty years of republican life. These precarious ones flee abroad or end up being no longer excellent researchers because they are debased on an unacceptable working condition. We can correct this situation. I propose that the 300 million, although few, which can be dedicated to a financial investment, be set to stabilize the 10,000 precarious research institutions of our country. We give proof that we want to invest in the future, that we want to believe in our young people and in their ability to renew the whole country with their work instead of continuing with the reductions and electoral gifts to companies, of which every trace is lost and that disappear in the air, as happened with the past Government. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u128	Mr Lezzi (M5S). Mr President, something terrible happened yesterday in the heart of Europe: a woman was killed who honored her profession. She was a journalist who, investigating dozens of files, cards, numbers and current accounts, had come to some very uncomfortable truths. In fact he had discovered, at least now this is known, the transit of one million euros from the daughter of the president of Azerbaijan and destined to the wife of the Premier of Malta. Mrs. Daphne Galicia had the well-founded suspicion that this round of money, bribes, corruption, so her last post seemed almost desperate, was linked to the TAP pipeline, which has been and still is strongly contested by the 5 Star Movement, committees, associations, citizens and an entire territory that knows that that gas is useless. In fact, it is sold as the energy supply that must free us from dependence on Russia when instead that gas comes from Azerbaijan that will pick it up from Russia and is bloody, dirty of corruption. A Member of the European Parliament, Luva Volonte, is also involved, and there are two billion public funds coming from the EIB, of which we remember that 16% are Italian money. We would also like to point out that the Democratic Party is a strong supporter of this pipeline, although there is strong opposition from the territory. But Matteo Renzi locked himself in a theater, sent unarmed and unarmed citizens who simply wanted to talk to him, sent away university students and even honest, competent, professional journalists who just wanted to ask him questions, threw them out and kept talking about a tube that wouldn't bother anyone, also saying that the committees didn't bother anyone. A fifty - three - year - old journalist who leaves her husband and children has blown up. I call on this House and you, President, to ask the Government to demand clarity and not to live in opacity because the Democratic Party has not said a single word about this history which has happened, I repeat, in the heart of civil Europe. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u131	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to urge the Commission to respond to two questions that have been tabled, at the first signature of Senator Buccarella, namely 4-06370 of 21 September 2016 and 4-06628 of 9 November 2016. These questions raise a very, very serious - alas - case, provided that the proposed hypothesis is verified, according to which the bankruptcy judicial auctions relating to the territory of the jurisdiction of the court and the attorney of Taranto are somehow piloted in order to guarantee undue advantages also for members of the judiciary, provided that the hypothesis in question is verified. We also know that an inspection at the Taranto Court was scheduled by the Ministry of Justice in January 2017. This inspection should have been completed for months, but it has not been reported, nor have there been any answers to the two questions put by the Group. Now, from the south near the Taranto citizens, I already know that this city has been tormented by a bad environmental and health management by the giant ILVA which, in fact, is a black fund for the Italian economy and especially for the health of many and many citizens. I believe, however, that if we add to this a very serious case of corruption in judicial proceedings, it is absolutely necessary to have an answer, which is what the M5S is trying to achieve since the institutions are delaying, delaying and perhaps sedating. We believe that the citizens of Taranto, even for the lawyers and lawyers who complained, need to have answers. I would remind you that the Court and the Public Prosecutor of Potenza are also involved in the matter, which has been referred to the same questions without having any answer. We, who are considered the executioners, want from the Ministry of Justice of the answers. The question, in fact, if these inspections have actually been carried out, cannot be maintained in a single day. It is therefore necessary to get to the truth and shed light on a case that Taranto, but not only, is giving a lot of scandal. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u132	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u134	EXPOSED Stefano (PD). Mr President, I rise to withdraw the act of inspection union 3-02586, giving a brief explanation for its reasons. This act, which dates back to February 2016, addressed to the Ministries of Interior, Economic Development and Regional Affairs and Self-Government, concerned the issue of Rome's insurance management. In the question, the result of a series of public documents emerged from a trade union source, I asked a series of questions to the relevant ministries on the management of the same insurance in Rome, but in particular on a possible opaque management of the board of directors by the president, Professor Sanasi d'Arpe. Despite the lack of answers, in recent days a long report has been made available to me, of which I was not aware and I am sorry that this did not happen through a formal response of the Ministers questioned, from which emerges clearly, and without a doubt, that the issues I had put in the question, which made the management by President Sanasi d'Arpe of Assicurazioni di Roma appear opaque were completely unfounded. I believe that the inspection union is an important tool, even if it would be equally important to give the answers, and that questioning the management of a board of an important company, but above all the role and competences in the performance of these functions are sensitive issues. It is true that we have the title to do so, but when we have the opportunity, as I have had it, to have at our disposal a document that totally denies the elements of doubt, I think it is right to withdraw the act of inspection union, recognizing to the then president of Assicurazioni of Rome, Professor Sanasi d'Arpe, a very correct management of the same and I think it is right to do so in the parliamentary seat, which is precisely the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u135	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-10-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-900.ana.u136	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.20 p.m.
