ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Mauro Giovanni, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u4	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 15.07).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u8	The next item is the statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation on the situation in Venezuela. I call the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Alfano.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u9	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Venezuela is a country to which we hold a great deal, because of its deep historical ties - I dare say blood - with Italy. The same President of the Republic Mattarella, who I accompanied on a state visit to Latin America last week, made his feelings of deep and shared concern about the fate of the country. In the face of a situation that is of great concern, also for the risks involving, among other things, almost 150,000 Italian citizens resident in the country, we have continued to try to foster political solutions in order to face the serious institutional stalemate and the situation of economic, social, security and health crisis in place. Unfortunately, in Venezuela, there is still a lack of political will to overcome the conflict and to engage in genuine dialogue. Each part of the institutional confrontation has its responsibilities for this situation. But regardless of what may be the legitimate political convictions of each of us, it is clear that the Venezuelan Government has not done any of the necessary acts to create the minimum conditions for substantive dialogue. The electoral calendar was not seriously put into practice: local elections should have been held in 2016 and sine die were postponed. The main political prisoners have not been released and Leopoldo López, leader of the opposition, continues to be held in isolation. In recent days he has also feared for his life, but the alarm has fortunately returned. In spite of the need to create conditions for dialogue and to ensure regular electoral confrontation, discriminatory measures have not been taken against opposition leaders, just think of the ban on the election, for the next fifteen years, of Henrique Capriles, Maduro's contender in the last elections. All these acts seem to have strengthened the determination and unity of the parliamentary opposition. And this has been seen in the large demonstrations that, for almost a month, happen day by day in Caracas and in the other cities, which are unfortunately repressed with increasing violence and with a balance of victims that grows intolerablely. The people's protest calls for elections to be held without delay, the release of political prisoners, the recognition of the prerogatives of the elected Parliament and the acceptance of the aid of the international community. Faced with these demands, the Government of Maduro has responded by announcing the constitution of a constituent assembly, in ways considered by the opposition in conflict with the instruments of representative democracy provided for by the current Constitution of 1999. In full respect of the prerogatives of a sovereign state, it is certainly not my job to assess the constitutional legitimacy of this decision. This does not alter the fact that there is a legitimate concern that this is an initiative aimed at subtracting prerogatives from the legislative power and postponing - even in this case, sine die - the call for new elections. The international community is now aware that we are facing a situation in dramatic evolution, in which the risks of a potential civil war are concrete. A broad front of countries concerned about the stability of the region, as well as the living conditions of the populations, including the many foreign communities resident, sent convergent messages to President Maduro. The decisions taken by the Mercosur Group and other non-member countries are unequivocal: eight states in the region, whose total population represents the vast majority of South American citizens, have expressed a strong appeal to the Government of Caracas and a condemnation for its actions. The organization of American states, which will bring together on 31 May a ministerial dedicated to the crisis in Venezuela, is discussing a resolution recognising the break-up of the constitutional order on the basis of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights. The situation in Venezuela, for the first time since the beginning of the crisis, should be the subject of an information report at the UN Security Council in these hours. Despite these pressures, the Venezuelan Government has unfortunately chosen the path of isolation and rejection of dialogue. The country's announcement that it wants to leave the Organization of American States is a very significant political decision. Ladies and gentlemen, in this scenario, we wanted to express in clear terms the Italian position following the latest developments in the crisis in Venezuela; a position, ours, in line with the commitments made in this House in accordance with President Casini's motion last January. In recent days, I have reiterated the strong concern and condemnation of the Italian Government for the increasing violence with which the popular demonstrations of protest in Caracas and in the rest of the country are suppressed. Violence is not the solution and the manifestation of dissent is an inalienable right of citizens. We have already made this clear to the authorities in Caracas and we will continue to do so using all the diplomatic instruments we have. Secondly, I urged the Venezuelan Government to listen to the demands of the people and their elected representatives. To take up the words of the President of the Italian Republic, Sergio Mattarella: "We see a need, which cannot be disregarded, of respect for the will of the people, of respect for the separation of powers, of respect for democracy authentically, all things that are strongly questioned." Finally, I called on the Government of Caracas not to fuel internal opposition, which could provoke further violence, and to ensure that the people are called to express themselves exclusively by universal suffrage, free, direct and secret. My appeal, however, in line with the position expressed by the international community, has unfortunately been rejected by the Venezuelan authorities, who have defined my statements as "pernicious" and characterized by interventionist purposes, and the Government has reiterated this by means of a public communication with regard to my statements made here too. All this requires me to reiterate once again that it is not our intention to interfere in the country's internal affairs and that Italy has always collaborated constructively with every legitimate Government, without ever entering the plan of a political and ideological debate. However, we cannot remain inert in the face of the serious crisis affecting the Venezuelan people. That is why we will continue to be in close contact with the Holy See and to exchange assessments and analyses. The Holy Father has clearly said that the serious problems of Venezuela can be solved if there is the will to build bridges, to dialogue seriously and to complete the agreements reached. All our support continues to go to Vatican diplomacy, in the hope that it will help to reopen the window of solution. We have also taken action so that a clear, strong and authoritative message can be addressed from Brussels. In Europe, I have promoted coordination with Spain and Portugal, two of the countries, that is, most interested in the crisis, and on our proposal, supported by the countries that share our concerns, the Foreign Affairs Council of the day before yesterday tried a text of conclusions on Venezuela. By demonstrating the European Union's unity of intent on this crisis, the conclusions call for the cessation of violence and the resumption of an urgent, constructive and effective dialogue between the Government and Parliament. The Council expects all political actors in Venezuela to work constructively to resolve the crisis in Venezuela, also calling for the release of political opponents. Finally, the Council conclusions mention the more than 600,000 European citizens living in Venezuela and it is reiterated that the European Union is ready to cooperate with the authorities to ensure assistance, protection and security for all European citizens in Venezuela. We are also working with the countries of the region. I spoke about Venezuela with Argentine Foreign Minister Susana Malcorra on the occasion of her recent visit to Rome. The topic was also addressed last week accompanying President Mattarella in his visit to Argentina and Uruguay. The Uruguayans, not prejudices hostile to chavism, shared our concerns and our commitment and agreed to continue to coordinate on this dossier. Former President Mujica himself, a sincere friend of President Chavez, has acknowledged in recent days that there is today a problem of democratic deficit in the country. The Maduro Government must be convinced that in the international community there is a genuine concern for the fate of Venezuela, linked to the lack of progress in dialogue between government and opposition and the lack of a new popular legitimacy towards those who govern the country. The Italian Government's commitment is also directed to the protection of almost 150,000 Italians living in the country who share the difficulties and dangers of the remaining Venezuelan population. Although we are aware of the difficulties of reaching such a large number of Italians, well rooted in the reality of the country, we are trying to provide them with support and assistance, although the margins of action allowed by the Venezuelan Government are very limited. I am referring, for example, to our willingness, unfortunately unheard to date by the Government of Caracas, to send food aid and medicines to remedy the shortage of life-saving medicines that exists in the country. Faced with the impoverishment that has affected our compatriots, in particular those of the middle classes and pensioners, Farnesina has prepared - on my recommendation - an extraordinary plan of assistance to the groups of more vulnerable compatriots of the value of one million euros; a plan that goes to integrate to the funds already available this year and that greatly increases the funds paid to the compatriots in need in 2016, pairs altogether to more than 400,000 euros. We also decided to strengthen the human resources of the diplomatic-consular network operating in the country. The central administration is identifying some officials to be allocated primarily to the strengthening of consular services and assistance to the Italian community on site. In order to strengthen the offices in charge of assistance to the compatriots, we have also recently hired four employees under local contract, that is, the maximum unfortunately allowed by the current contingent contractists of our Ministry, established by law. I would like to point out that these are personnel who work under extremely difficult and risky conditions. To ensure that our headquarters in Venezuela are working safely, we are also strengthening the Carabinieri contingent at the Consulate General of Caracas. During the last nine months, a number of structural interventions to strengthen the security of the embassy, the Consulate General and the Institute of Culture in Caracas and the Consulate in Maracaibo have also been addressed. In the next steps we will have to ensure the necessary resources, security and staff both in Venezuela and in other locations. I would also like to mention, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of claims by our companies, some of which remain strongly exposed in the absence of payments by the Venezuelan authorities. Italian companies - I would like to stress this - have not abandoned the country, and this despite the continuing deterioration of the political and economic situation. Moreover, the Italian industrial presence in Venezuela is of long tradition and has made an important contribution to the development of the country, in particular in the field of infrastructure and energy. Our companies, however, want to pay the credits they have for their work and that amount to about EUR 3 billion. We will therefore continue to raise the issue of the credits of our companies with the Venezuelan authorities at the highest level. It is important that Italian companies are compensated for their efforts in the country in all these years of historical presence. At the same time, in line with the commitment made in this House last January, we are continuing to work to deepen, among the compensation instruments provided for in the law, the arrangements for these claims to be recovered. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that the Italian Government will continue to follow the crisis in Venezuela with the utmost attention and priority. We owe it to a country that we are bound by a historic and solid friendship. We owe it to the many Italian citizens or citizens of Italian origin who reside there. We owe it to our companies, which have made a decisive contribution to the construction of the country. And we will not fail to agree with the initiatives that - I am sure - you will continue as Senate to promote, in the awareness of the important role that interparliamentary dialogue can play. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u10	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u11	Madam President, first of all I would like to thank the Group of the Democratic Party, in particular Senator Sangalli, who has asked the government for information on Venezuela in recent days, renewing the Senate's commitment to this issue. The Foreign Minister has been so comprehensive that he deserves very little consideration from me. I begin my speech by reminding you all of what the Holy See has placed at the center of its mediation with the Venezuelan authorities, in a letter that, before the end of the year, Cardinal Secretary of State Parolin advertised. The three points that the Holy See put at the center of the possible mediation to engage were: immediate release of political prisoners; establishment of an electoral calendar; sure and guaranteed arrival of the humanitarian and health aid that Venezuela needs. The answers to these three demands, inescapable as a basis for mediation, were simply the intensification of repression; the abolition of the governors' elections; the disappearance from any political agenda of new elections, just as they should of course be fixed and as they are fixed in each country, and the invention of the constituent assembly, whose electoral basis is not the popular electoral one, as would be implied in the very word of the constituent assembly, but consists of no better identified basic committees. Finally, there is still a clear closure in the transposition of any health aid. In the face of such realities, I will be attending the meeting of the Presidents of Parliament in Brasilia next week, on the topic of Venezuela. And let me point out that he called this meeting, to which only the representatives of the Italian and Spanish Parliaments were invited, that Brazil, by its tradition, has a relationship of friendship and preferentiality with Venezuela. I tell you this to show you how much the perception of the situation in Venezuela has changed, as Mr Alfano testified when he referred to Mujica, the former President of Uruguay, and to the current Uruguayan President, who are traditionally sponsors of the Chavist experience in Venezuela. In the face of this reality, I must express the satisfaction - on the one hand - for what we have done - that parliamentary politicians and assemblies are always criticized and, at least on this occasion, in Europe we were the first - and - on the other - for how the Ministry of Foreign Affairs tried to respond to the emergencies of our local community. However, I feel obliged to say, Minister Alfano, that more must be done: it is already a great deal that has been done, but we must do more and not feel satisfied with what has been done. Ambassador Silvio Mignano and his collaborators do extraordinary things. I would like to say here in the Senate that for once we must thank our diplomats and give them a round of applause. [[Applause from the PD and AP-CpE-NCD groups and Senators Gambaro and Sonego),]] because I know what it means right now, for the employees of our consulate and embassy, to go to work in the morning. Already going to work is a business and many prefer to stay in the offices from the end of the day of work until the beginning of the next day to avoid the unknown of going home and having to go back to the office. We must, therefore, do more and more. Of course, I would also like to thank the President of the Republic very warmly here. The fact that President Mattarella took responsibility in his talks in South America for the inconvenience that exists not only in the Community of States, in the European Union or in Italy, but also among our fellow countrymen, is an honour to him because he could have limited himself to a more formal role. Instead, this shows how Italy is following the whole story with apprehension. You mentioned, Minister, the issue of compensation for Italian companies. An agenda for the first time by Senator Sangalli on that issue was approved by this House. It is clear that the problem is on the table: when we adopted the agenda, Sangalli was serious, while today it became very serious, because the situation is getting worse instead of improving. We will probably have in Italy Leopoldo López' brother and we had the daughter of Antonio Ledezma, who is under house arrest. We need to step up pressure on the Venezuelan Government, because we only want one thing, respecting the Government and Parliament: the possibility for the citizens of that country to vote, because that is the precondition for any evolution. And I believe that the line indicated by the Foreign Minister is never as effective as it is today as the whole of Parliament. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Senator Sonego.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stucchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u13	Madam President, speaking of Venezuela means touching on a very sensitive subject which, for so long, has been under the attention of all of us, but on which the international community has actually made its voice heard a few times, calling for change. It has often done so in words, but with concrete acts I understand that there has not been a constant frequency. Just look at the content of the press reviews and the news of the past months, which showed a situation of total chaos and an incapable President, a character absolutely not up to the task of managing such a delicate phase, like Maduro, that has further compromised with his action a reality that already had so many problems. I remember the election of Chavez, which took place after the presidency of Caldera, the last of the so-called democratic presidents (we are talking, however, about reality where the same concept of democracy is a bit different from that of Europe). And Chavez, pardoned by Caldera himself after an attempt at coup d'état, became President with a revolutionary, socialist, Bolivarian program. He transformed Venezuela into the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and began a path that has led more and more that country towards a Cuban drift - let's call it that - towards what we have then seen, in recent years, not be a propositional model, able to guarantee that future of well-being that instead was sold by chavista propaganda to its citizens. Of course at first he had great popular support, which then, however, in the face of a lack of results, failed. Today we are faced with a proposal from the President of the Constitutional Assembly to amend the Constitution which, if it were not comical, should force us to cry and to be very saddened by the situation of the Government of that country. This kind of proposal, which includes a lifetime president and only the government's powers, a zero power for Parliament (so the democratically elected bodies of the citizens will count very little), and a whole series of other interventions, should make those who have a bit of spirit or democratic blood shudder within their veins. Yet, on the part of the international community - as I said at the beginning - there was no strong, determined and determined reaction. We have discussions, we take positions, we will find ourselves in Brasilia as representatives of Parliaments to deal with this issue, but we need to do more: we need to activate diplomacy to get a clear, determined and determined message to Maduro. Chaos, the dead and violence are unacceptable. You don't rule a country with an iron fist. You don't rule a country against democratic rules. We do not govern a country with terror, because this is what is happening in Venezuela. I have to say that I know quite well that reality, which I have visited several times, and I know so many people who have opposed the Chavez regime in recent years, with whom I have also been confronted recently. They have always pointed out to me that for far too long the great western democratic communities have thought that the problem could be solved by itself and find its solution with the passage of time. There has been a guilty inertia on the part of the great Western countries and the great Western democracies, who have so many fellow citizens living in that country and who could surely wake up and intervene first and be harder. When democracy and people's lives are at stake, it is necessary not only to use words, but to do concrete acts and to use diplomacy up to the extreme ratio, with all the tools that are made available. Such a situation in Venezuela and our inertia are not acceptable. We must absolutely intervene and try to activate all the instruments, including through international communities and bodies, in order to change Maduro's mind and make him understand that democracy must always win. I close with a passage taken from an article by Loris Zanatta on "Clarìn" an Argentine newspaper: That chavism and its devotees give the fascist to their opponents mobilized in defense of democracy is the most comical or tragic aspect, is ignorance or is bad faith. That's the thing to think about. [[Applause from the Senator Council]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u14	Senator Sonego is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u15	Madam President, Minister, first of all I express words of real appreciation for the political profile of Italian diplomacy, first and foremost of the Minister, and for the concrete acts that our country, through our international activity, is making in order to make a useful and wise contribution to a positive outcome of a dramatic event. Our first thought obviously runs to the compatriots, who share, together with the Venezuelan community, a situation to say the least challenging from the economic point of view, personal freedom and the most elementary living conditions. A thought of great solidarity we try to feed with concreteness, precisely on the basis of a convincing political initiative. A second reflection concerns the political outcome - and we hope that it will remain so at the time - of that national crisis. It is the political outlet, in some ways inimitable, of a growing wave of populism; this is why I believe that we must all, and not only the Venezuelan community, reflect on the populist drifts that add up, giving rise to a peak of national and international crisis, with the devastating effects of the fall in the price of energy. Those populist drifts, combined with the fact that the economic conditions absolutely particular deriving from the high price of gas and oil and also from the reduction of the levy decided by the producing countries not long ago are no longer feasible, have contributed further to the worsening of that situation. I think it is right to stress a strict judgment with regard to the Venezuelan Government, just as it is appropriate to urge all the parties concerned to make an effort to contribute to a useful, democratic and peaceful end. We are well aware that our solicitation could be a kind of voice in the desert, in the sense that it might not be understood, and this strengthens even more the need for the effort to become common to the whole international community. We are happy and proud of the role Italy plays, but we are also aware that the role we perform, even as a friendly country of Venezuela, will not be enough. It will therefore be essential for our country to express an important initiative, which we more than others can carry out, in order to ensure that the international community, even with the help of the European institutions, can express itself with greater authority. The so-called soft power of the European Union can become decisive, just as the function of the United Nations can be essential. I should like to make two last brief comments before concluding. In our reflection today we have not mentioned, at least so far, the role of the United States of America. We know that that country, especially more recently, has a particularly complicated relationship with that nation and its government. However, it is quite clear that, if the effort is to be of a convincing large-scale community of the international community, it will be quite inevitable to work also for the involvement of the American administration, which we know is characterized, especially for a few months, by uncertain economic policy profiles. That is a country that, over the centuries, has gone from Monroe doctrine to isolationism and planetary interventionism, moving towards a policy that is not entirely clear. I believe, however, that we would also be wrong to neglect the role of the important American nation. Finally, Minister, on the outside of today's subject, I would also like to put to you a question which concerns us directly as regards Europe, and I am referring to an important part of Europe, namely South-East Europe or the Western Balkans, as we wish. I would ask you to be prepared, in view of the crucial Trieste summit on 12 July, in which our Government will play a key role and I also think it is very positive, to debate - and this is something I put before all my colleagues in this House - precisely on the issue of the Western Balkans. We must look to it with great concern for the rise of great interstate tensions, within state organizations and also among ethnic groups, which could become a poisonous seed, if not adequately governed, not only for that area we call South-East Europe or Western Balkans, but also for the whole of Europe, and primarily for Italy. Let us not forget that in the not too distant past we have been directly involved in that matter to the point that we have made available, even operationally, our air force. I say this as a testimony to the fact that there is a long engagement of our country that assigns to that chessboard an essential role. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u16	Senator Amoruso is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u17	Minister, in your report you have said two great truths: firstly, that civil war is being threatened in Venezuela and, secondly, that Italy cares very much about its community on the ground. In fact, today Venezuela is a state in deep economic - social crisis but, alongside this, there is also a growing political and institutional crisis, there is a National Assembly where oppositions are majority, but which is no longer being convened, on the contrary, there has been an attempt by the Supreme Court of Justice to replace the National Assembly. We are talking, as Mr Casini said, about this new elected constituent Assembly, we do not know how and by whom we do not know. We are really facing a scenario that is very, very dangerous, also because to all this we must add that during the demonstrations that have been there in recent months, popular demonstrations very tight, there have been almost 40 deaths and over 1,000 wounded: it is the price that the people are paying to a dictatorship that no longer represents him, Minister. This is not the time for politically correct, it is not the time to see if a government was elected a long time ago, because voting is not the case, but to understand if today that government represents a reality that is on the verge, as you said, of a civil war. The situation is dramatic at political and humanitarian level because of the absolute lack of food and medicines. In this regard, the Government operates a selective distribution of these genres in order to try to find consensus in those that will perhaps be identified as the voters of the constituent Assembly. This is a very serious situation in which a clear, strong and immediate response is needed; a situation that has seen, as you recalled, the Holy See develop an action of mediation according to what was also the Italian attempt to always maintain an open channel of dialogue for a peaceful solution. We have seen how this road has not been useful, indeed it has been rejected by the government. Since then, Minister, we must remember that the Church has become the enemy of the Maduro Government. Just read, hear and see what the Bishops' Conference of Venezuela says about the situation and the analysis they make of the Maduro Government. The bishops denounce a totalitarian, militaristic, police, violent system, worse than the worst socialism of the 21st century. That's what the bishops say. On May 21 there will be a day of prayer for peace in Venezuela. We hope that it will not be a day bathed in the blood of the dead and wounded, and therefore by the innocent blood of the Venezuelan people. Everything happens: the churches are attacked, the priests are thrown out during the celebration of the functions. Even sacred images are smeared with excrement, worse than what happens in the areas of ISIS. This is happening in Venezuela, just because the Maduro Government has been asked to free political prisoners, to give Parliament back its role and to hold new elections. So, Minister, this is a crisis that doesn't come close. It is not only the crisis of a man, but it is the crisis of a system, because what is happening today in Venezuela was born with the dictatorship of Chavez and with an economic policy that has destroyed that country since 1999 through a state centralism, autarchy and policies hostile to private enterprise. Here we must remember what is happening - as you said - to our community: a strong community of 150,000 people who have been stripped of everything and who have seen their men killed. Just remember some examples: Roberto Annese, killed in 2014 in Maracaibo, and it has not yet been known either why or how; the same thing happened in 2016 for Matteo Di Francescantonio. These are two examples, but there may also be others. It is a community, the Italian community, which has paid, through the loss of its assets, its work and the contribution it had made to make Venezuela a rich and prosperous country. Then we must have the courage and the strength today, Minister, to address the international community, inviting it to make its voice heard. We must not worry about the fact that this is a government that was elected by the people a long time ago. Today this government does not represent the Venezuelan people, who are paying with their blood a huge sacrifice. So, in order to defend that people, to defend our community and to defend that country, Italy must be strong, for its history and its relations - which you have recalled - with this country, to push the international community to take decisive and clear measures to safeguard the future of Venezuela and its population. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u18	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u19	Madam President, I thank the Minister for coming here to report on the tragic situation in Venezuela. I want to expose quickly what happens in that country. I am afraid that a few people will understand how serious the economic, social, political and institutional crisis in Venezuela is. This is not a political confrontation, even bitter, between two opposing political visions. It's much more and worse. The current Government of President Maduro is now, without any more hesitation, repressing all forms of public manifestation that exasperated citizens carry out. In the last speech I made here in this House I spoke of 27 deaths: it was at the end of April. They are now more than 40 dead and hundreds wounded. The arrests don't count anymore. The middle-aged lady who intervened in front of the armored in a demonstration and who reminded everyone of the repressions in Tiananmen Square in Beijing was arrested, guilty only of wanting to stop with her body the violence of the Nacional Guard. The protest marches are daily, but are repressed violently. They are peaceful marches, such as the march of women or the march of grandparents: all forms to try to raise awareness of the regime. But the current regime - it is regrettable to use this term, but it is difficult to find others - has exonerated Parliament, the Asamblea nacional, because it consists in the majority of opposition members. The well-known judgments of the Supreme Court (the equivalent of our Council) at the end of March have made clear what has been going on for some time now. Every decision, every decision, every law passed by the Venezuelan Parliament has been systematically annulled by the Supreme Court and never promulgated. I would point out to you - perhaps a few people are aware - that as many as 12 effective judges and 21 alternates of the Supreme Tribunal were appointed in December 2015 by the previous Parliament which had fallen, but before the new one was installed. At that time when the old man was finished and the new one began, the old one was allowed to change so strongly the composition of that court. It was a clever move, but certainly not respectful of democracy. Since then, therefore, every decision of the Supreme Tribunal has been aligned with President Maduro's wishes. In the last few years of the presidency, Maduro has followed the arrests - as has already been said - and the condemnations of the opponents. The best known cases are those of the mayor of Caracas Antonio Ledezma and one of the most famous opponents, Leopoldo López. However, there are many others, hundreds less known who are now in prison, often judged by military courts even though they are civilians. In Venezuelan prisons there are continuous violations of human rights denounced by various international bodies. It should also be said that the opposition to President Maduro consists of a broad front of large and small parties, historical and recently formed and, above all, of different political positions: in fact, socialism (some are members of the Socialist International) is the center (Christian Democrat and Liberal) and some are also on the right. It is a broad front grouped together in the Mesa de la Unidad Democrática (MUD) which calls, among other things, for the resumption of democratic electoral confrontation. This confirms that this is not a normal political confrontation between a right-wing opposition and a left-wing government (as some here in Italy say), but between democratic opponents and a President who compresses democracy. In fact, in Venezuela the elections were not held in December 2016 for the renewal of the positions of Governor of the Federal States, important elections but no longer convened, nor has the referendum, provided for in the Constitution, been held for the revocation of the President. It is the so-called recall that many wish to be introduced also in Italy, but that then they are the same (and I refer explicitly to the 5 Star Movement) that, when the Constitution foresees it as in Venezuela and the signatures requested were collected by the citizens, they do not call for its application: an inexplicable inconsistency for me. However, those who spend more on this political and institutional crisis are the Venezuelan citizens, who suffer from the economic crisis that has led Venezuela, a country rich in natural resources (primarily oil), to be now poor and with large sections of the population suffering from hunger. Venezuelans suffer from the lack of medication that is leading to the 30% increase in infant mortality and diseases once almost completely eradicated (tuberculosis, malaria, zika, diphtheria), as recently reported by Venezuela's Internal Medicine Society. I believe that in this situation Italy must maintain a firm position condemning what is happening in Venezuela. In all international fora the issue of the Venezuelan crisis must be raised in the hope that international pressure can stop the authoritarian drift impressed by Maduro. I recalled the judgments of the end of March and on that occasion the firm positions taken by so many countries around the world eventually also contributed to the withdrawal of those decisions. In any case, the opportunities for an international debate that sees Venezuela present are being reduced. The Venezuelan Government began, at the end of April, the procedure to leave the Organization of American States (OEA), not accepting its criticisms. Italy can no longer be shy in condemning the Venezuelan situation, but it must bring the case to all international fora. If I understood the Minister's words correctly, it would be appropriate for Italy to bring this case to the United Nations Security Council, of which we are members, albeit not permanent. It is no longer understandable the right prudence linked to the fate of our Italian community in Venezuela or to the claims of our companies in that country, which perhaps in the past held back a position of our Government. Now the position can only be that of firm condemnation and demand for a solution that can only be democratic. [[Applause from Senator Zin]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u20	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u21	Minister, in your introductory speech you quoted the words of Pope Francis. The Pontiff said: "I am convinced that the serious problems of Venezuela can be solved if there is the will to build bridges, to dialogue seriously and to complete the agreements reached." It is a voice of wisdom unfortunately not heard, even by the same episcopal conference and the Venezuelan bishops. As we know, yesterday too there were clashes and victims and every day it brings that country closer to a real civil war. But I am sorry, Minister, to have to tell you that your information to us does not seem to build bridges of dialogue; it seems to us unbalanced in the analysis of what is happening in Venezuela in recent weeks. We believe that there is only one way to prevent this tragic outcome, which is also indicated by the four former Ibero-American Presidents, including Zapatero, as we know, who are working hard to achieve mediation. Pope Francis on Venezuela said: "We are looking for negotiated solutions to the serious humanitarian, social, political and economic crisis that is exhausting the population." I believe that anyone who calls himself a friend of the Venezuelan people must pursue this objective in these hours. We believe that it is necessary to say that we must work to ensure that this objective is not achieved by many, by too many, but not only on the one hand, as we read all too often in the reports of the Italian and European media. Again, once again the clear and objective voice of the Pontiff stands out: Unfortunately, part of the opposition does not want dialogue. The same opposition is divided. I would like to see no room left in my speech for any ambiguity whatsoever. We believe that repression of popular demonstrations is never acceptable, under any circumstances. If there is one thing the left has learned from the lesson of the last century - and if he has not done so - it is that nothing justifies the sacrifice of democracy; that there is no higher interest that makes it lawful to renounce democracy, because that sacrifice and that renunciation always return to the disadvantage of the oppressed, even when they were decided in the name of the oppressed. However, I believe that this statement, which we want to make unambiguous, should not make blind, as it often or almost always happens in the very singular news of ours. In Venezuela, a war between freedom against oppression is not being fought, as it is told. Giant economic interests are also at stake (for many years, not since today), which use indifferently the appeal to democracy or the use of dictatorship according to a contingent interest. How many times have we seen this in the history of Latin America? In the coalition of the opposition forces there are truly democratic forces, but there are also others who ride the discontent with the same goals they had pursued as far back as 2004. These forces have militias that cannot be confused with legitimate protest and do not disdain the use of sabotage to make the material conditions of citizenship even more difficult, with the aim of bringing exasperation to the highest levels. I believe that anyone today tries to make a non-ideological argument about Venezuela and that wants instead the salvation of Venezuela from the civil war must start from an unfaithful consideration: Venezuela is a country split in two, and perhaps it is already from the days immediately after the elections, that - we remember - they saw Maduro's victory with 50.3% of the votes. When a country is so divided, asking for the unconditional surrender of either party means marching into civil war. The only alternative to this tragic outcome is dialogue, and for dialogue, democratic Italy and democratic Europe must be fought, just as they are trying to do during these weeks the most authoritative voices of the Latin American continent. It is clear that the first step must be taken by the government. Political prisoners must be released, the repression of dissent must end, but also on the part of the opposition there must be signs of total contradiction and contrast with what has happened in recent weeks, first of all putting an end to the violence of the militias of the extreme right. The National Assembly must be given back its role and on this basis a timetable must certainly be established to arrive at new elections, after the necessary and inevitable stage of decantation compared to what is happening. Imagine what an election campaign would be in the current situation: an irreversible step towards civil war. Venezuela is experiencing not only a tragic political emergency, but also, as has been mentioned, a tragic phase of humanitarian suffering. Some 80 percent of the inhabitants live in poverty and inflation has reached levels that recall those of the Weimar Republic. Even bread is no longer available and the lack of drugs is now so evident that they are only available on the black market and even infant mortality has increased. We therefore believe that in this state and in this situation Europe and Italy have only one duty: to offer all possible help to prevent the humanitarian crisis from degenerating into an even heavier tragedy. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u22	Senator Bertorotta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u23	Madam President, the country is going through a very alarming stage in its political life. Last December's referendum, which rejected the constitutional reform promoted by the government, had to lead to elections, which were postponed to 2018. The public debt increases to a great extent and Parliament is constantly demanding trust and works only on government decrees-laws, while protesters are suspended en masse for weeks. A Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council is accused of having favored a family bank, while the purchasing centre is under investigation for corruption. Youth unemployment has risen by over 40%; people at risk of poverty are around 17 million; 11 million citizens cannot take care of themselves because health care costs are too high. The real tax burden has increased disproportionately, causing the closure of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. One of the opposition leaders has been banned from public offices and will not be able to run. The demonstrations are systematically loaded by the police. The government has even planned special courts to judge foreign citizens. Sorry, I made the wrong sheet: this was Italy... [[Laughter and applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group]] . MIRABELLI (PD). It's not Italy, thank God and luckily for you! BERTOROTTA (M5S). You see, Minister, if you want any country, you can find reasons to press another country on serious charges. Of course, we cannot compare the situation of a Latin American state with a European state, either from the point of view of economic conditions or even less from that of the state of parliamentary or presidential democracy. Let us therefore reason for the complexity of the Latin American situation by avoiding unnecessary comparisons. The 5 Star Movement is at the side of the Venezuelan people in this difficult political and economic phase. As you know, we support direct democracy and all forms of peaceful expression of protest, in Italy as in any other country in the world. We don't change records according to the country! The problems in Venezuela have always been the same, for eighteen years: from the election of Chavez to the crisis of 2002, from the guarimba of 2014 to today, the problems raised by the oppositions were and are exactly the same. The government has committed very serious economic and political errors, which have exasperated the souls: not diversifying exports, basing everything on oil and not being able to guarantee an adequate supply of medicines and food, has meant that today, with the price of oil falling free, the social and economic situation is difficult to manage. There are also completely wrong monetary policies, which have increased inflation at the highest level, so much so that today Venezuela is not even able to pay pensions abroad. Hundreds of thousands of people, rightly, are demonstrating to ask for a change of pace. Unfortunately, however, as always happens when the squares are filled, alongside peaceful and responsible protesters, real black blockades, which increase the climate of violence by attacking hospitals, schools, courts, public transport and even burning stores of medicines and food. The demonstrations will continue for a long time, but it is useless to hide that the situation will hardly be able to change only through the square, given the loyalty of army and police and a piece of country in Maduro. For this reason Pope Francis, the supreme voice of the Catholic Church, has also criticized the opposition for the little will for dialogue and too many divisions. An independent survey of 3 May pointed out that 70% of Venezuelans interviewed saw the opposition as strongly divided, without a credible leader, but above all without a program to get out of the crisis. There is therefore a strong risk of further instability that will not benefit the country. We have already seen in Libya, Syria and Ukraine that the degeneration of protests rather than towards democracy always leads to civil war, a worse scenario in absolute terms, that the international community has a duty to help prevent, especially after the mistakes of the past. In 2018 new elections were convened, a real test for politics, where the Venezuelan people will be able to express themselves in the ballot boxes and decide not only whether to change government, but also what political force will have to go to govern the country. The problem, in fact, is to offer a real alternative to the country. We therefore urge you, Minister, to work to ensure that the international community promotes dialogue, despite the enormous difficulties involved in this process. We are absolutely opposed to any international military interference and we always support the principle of self-determination of peoples. Italy gives strength to those who, like the Pope, ask to resume the process of dialogue that we see as the only way to prevent Latin America from becoming a new Middle East. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u25	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Venezuela is far beyond the dramatic. A country that enjoys a potential enormous wealth, with one of the richest subsoils on the planet, is in the situation that many, and you yourself, Minister, have illustrated: infant mortality has increased to unfailing levels, there is a shortage of milk powder for children who need it and in general serious food shortages afflict a large part of the population, certainly not those who dominate this chaos and who obviously do not suffer it. This is a situation which corresponds to the institutional situation. I will not be equidistant as the senator of the 5 Star Movement that preceded me, but I believe that when there is a President who is attributed all the powers of Parliament by a Constitutional Court that he himself appointed; when several of the main leaders of the opposition are in prison (Leopoldo López was sentenced to thirteen years and nine months imprisonment two years ago, accused of being responsible for the disorders that happened parallel to a demonstration actually promoted by him, without any evidence of any real contact between Leopoldo López and the violent who gave rise to these surely execrabili acts, in a trial in which there was no opportunity to bring witnesses from the defense, but only from the prosecution); when the conduct of this Government was considered inappropriate by numerous documents of national and international bodies; when the Mayor of Caracas has been in prison for two years, also with accusations of a clearly political character, there can be neither the equidentance of the 5 Star Movement, nor the timidity. I appreciate, Minister, the exhortations you have made to the Venezuelan Government, and I naturally appreciate those of the President of the Republic. I believe that in these cases, precisely because of the fact that there is a strong Italian community in Venezuela, that there are investments and large Italian credits in that country, there is a need for decisive action, in the face of those who do not respect their own Constitution, the one that he himself has approved. I note, in fact, that it was the Government that considered the million signatures collected null to ask for what is technically called the recall, the removal of the President, an institution that, for example, does not exist in Italy, but has been introduced into the Constitution precisely by the Chavistes. Well, in the face of this situation, there can be no shyness and we can also risk being accused of some interference because we have proof of many other interferences that have been made in other countries with much other presuppositions. Our community, our interests cannot be protected in a timid way; we certainly cannot protect them if we show an excessive fear of what, in fact, is a regime. I also welcome the cooperation, as the Minister said, with the Holy See, but I recall that the Bishops' Conference of Venezuela was far less prudent than the Holy See by openly declaring that Maduro is a totalitarian Marxist regime. This was said by the Bishops' Conference of Venezuela, which I think knows the Venezuelan situation even more than the valuable and esteemed diplomats who are beyond the Tiber. Alongside the appreciation for the words and principles - which I fully agree with - which the Minister mentioned, I hope that there will be a stronger institutional presence - yourself, Minister, perhaps other institutional figures - in that country precisely to protect our community. I also remember that exactly two weeks ago the aspiring President of the 5 Star Movement Council, Luigi Di Maio, hoped that Venezuela and Cuba, precisely as representatives of this beautiful Bolivarian alliance, would participate and facilitate the peace negotiations in Libya. I am appalled by these statements, on which there have been no marches back. I express the grave concern of what would be of our country if it were governed by those who think that in order to resolve the chaotic and disastrous situation that exists in Libya, it must intervene who in his country has the situation that everyone knows. I've heard other bizarre things, too. I believe that we have all received an e-mail from Mr Giovanna Martelli from the Article 1-MDP Group that sent us the vision of the Government, which I heard echoing in the speech of Senator Bertorotta of the 5 Star Movement, where the opposition is accused of having carried out violence. As it happens, the 48 dead are all on the side of the opponents and there are no cops or other dead on the other side. Faced with this situation, the concern and closeness towards the people of that country also require us - I ask the Government - to ban shyness. I invite everyone to consider what the 5 Star Movement proposes, namely to promote Venezuela - which has this situation - as a facilitator of peace in Libya. Forget it. May the Venezuelan Government respect its Constitution and stop persecuting the opposition, the Catholic Church and other churches and solve its problems. We must demand this at the cost of being accused of interference. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u26	Senator Sangalli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u27	Madam President, on behalf of the Democratic Party too, I would like to thank Mr Alfano for the timely and rapid information he has given us, at our request, on the issue of Venezuela. We find ourselves in his words: these are words of wisdom, which are found in reality. We find ourselves with the Venezuelan people, who live in a dramatic situation, on the brink of civil war. We find ourselves in the commitment to our 150,000 fellow countrymen. We find ourselves with our Government protecting the economic interests of our country in that country: important investments made to promote the development of Venezuela at a time when the economic choices of that country were, unfortunately, wrong. We also find ourselves in the idea of democracy that we express. We are not, on the other hand - I say this quite frankly - in any absurd comparison that can be made, not even from afar, not even ironically, between the Venezuelan and the Italian situation. I find this offensive to our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] , for our citizens, for our way of living democracy, for the commitment that we have always made towards all the countries that are fighting for democracy. We think that frankly we all have a sufficient experience - and if we haven't done so it's time to study a little - by virtue of which - I also tell dear friends - we do not confuse Maduro with Salvador Allende: they are two different films, two different worlds, different conditions, it is a different Latin America, it is a different division of the world; it is another story that we are seeing now. [[Applause from the PD Group).]] It is the story of a regime that is born with a strong popular consensus, that of Chávez; a regime that is born in a country that needs to build its own modernity and, for its own construction, is pivoting on the great resource it has: the energy resource. Venezuela is one of the world's energy hubs. Unfortunately, that regime was fundamentally wrong here: not to understand that the exclusive use of energy sources to build social forms of waterline would not resist the development of the markets. And when the 160-dollar oil per barrel went up to $40 a barrel that country, which didn't build alternatives or other businesses when it could, which didn't build other ways of producing, found itself in one of the most serious economic crises that exist. Look, this is the path that all those who rely on the exclusively popular feeling, who do not have a strategic vision of their own country. Of course, responding to the immediate needs of that country was a way to respond to a Third World country. But today we see that this was a short-sighted policy, in Chávez in good faith, but short-sighted; today, in Maduro, it is a continually short-sighted policy, but certainly not in good faith: it is a policy that follows and pursues, instead, the interest of an oligarchy of command. Let us call it by its own name, because when someone denies democracy he is an oligarch and, whatever colour he puts on, even the flags of peace, the one who denies democracy is always a dictator, not a Democrat. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Orellana.]] Let's try to get out of this story where there are good dictatorships and less good dictatorships; some dictatorships are always in the image of the great international conspiracy of the global media. I heard there are demonstrations today and there are 40 deaths in the demonstrations. I understood that the dead were caused by the protesters and not by the regime; the opposite is happening all over the world, but - for God's sake - I understood that those who died were not protesters: it is news. The real news, dear Minister, you gave it to us today, because you told us today that the United Nations Security Council meets for information on Venezuela; at last the United Nations Security Council takes part in the fate of a country that risks destroying itself and its people behind the demiurge of the populist idea. Well, today the United Nations Security Council, perhaps, with the information, will begin to take action. Why are dictatorships called dictatorships and those with a democratic culture not very easy to distinguish between a good dictatorship and a bad one; a dictatorship can be good because there is something that justifies it worldwide, some dream that is broken? No, when the people cannot count on free elections, when Parliament is dissolved, when parliamentarians are arrested, when the President, through the Constitutional Court, who responds to him, is able to undermine Parliament's will, my lords, there are no debates that hold: we are faced with a dictatorial regime, which must be fought with the weapons of democracy. This is what we ask the international community: to intervene, not invading a country that we consider, among other things, fraternally friendly, but not even saying that that country is living its spring. That country is not experiencing its spring but is experiencing a heavy autumn and, perhaps, a dramatic winter. I think that our President of the Republic, together with other Presidents of the Latin American States, has done well to take a position on the issue of Venezuela. The need for the popular will, the separation of powers and democratic respect are not only contained in the positive and important action that we support, of the Holy See, but are a common warning of the United Nations: the countries are democratic when they respect the popular will, have a strong separation of powers and there is a strong respect for the democratic will. We're not in this case. We're not. And - I must say to all those who make Italians for fake - that we are not especially for our 150,000 compatriots who are there, to whom we try to send medicines for survival and who cannot be reached by these medicines; to whom we try to send economic aid and cannot be reached by this economic aid. I must say this in the name of those companies that have invested billions of euros, as you have reminded us, Minister; large companies that have made the Panama Canal, that have realized the great infrastructures in the countries, that have grown, of Latin America, that are building the Venezuelan railways and that today are in a position not to be recognized by a friendly country in their own interests and to be put on the verge of failure. No. It's not like that. We are friends of Venezuela, but we are friends of Venezuela democratic, with names such as Leopoldo López and Henrique Capriles, which are the names of Venezuelan democracy. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are on the side of those who are now in prison in Venezuela but we are not against the people of Venezuela; we are in favour of Venezuela developing its democratic condition. President Maduro should have had good advice from the Supreme Pontiff, when he met him, to follow a path of democratization of that country. We are so that the strategy undertaken by the Holy See for national peace can be developed. We are not to interfere, at international level, in that country but, in front of political prisoners and the dead on the street, of which we must be ashamed and of which we must be ashamed all those who have not seen them so far, in front of all this we cannot say that we are neutral. We are for Venezuela to develop in its civil and democratic condition as that country deserves, a country to which we recognize total dignity. [[Applause from the PD, AP-CpE-NCD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u28	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, whom I thank for being available.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u29	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the draft law No 580-B, already approved by the Senate and amended by the House of Deputies. She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u30	Madam President, a few days ago, a fairly brief description of this draft law, which has been extensively amended and also, in some ways, improved by the House, we wanted to express our opinion again, comforted, moreover, also by what the Attorney General of Naples, Luigi Riello, intended to say, with some positions, in interviews given on the Republic of Naples and in other newspapers. Exactly, the prosecutor has explained to us even more and therefore comforted us in the judgment that we had given and that we give of this bill, clearly saying that "appelling to this law, the lawyers will rightly do their duty that is to try every way to prevent the demolition of the property of their assisted. (...) Every lawyer will say: Why are you demolishing my client's house and not that one? [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u31	Excuse me, Senator De Petris. Colleagues, please, lower your voice, the Government and the rapporteur first of all, as Senator De Petris is intervening.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u32	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). I'll finish the quote: Has it been verified that the order of priority has been respected? Here, in these very few words (but many others have been said) there is in some way the synthesis that could be made, with a tweet, of this bill; it has tried, on the basis of very broad criteria, to establish the order of priority of the demolitions, but in the end everything will be resolved with nothing of fact. Although the House has amended the bill, there are a type of approach and criteria that will, in our opinion, resolve in nothing de facto with regard to the purpose of restoring legality and therefore the demolition of abusive artifacts. We are at the third reading of a measure that clearly springs from a very serious situation, which has come to create in various parts of our country, especially in Campania, where the local administrations - alas! - they have not been able to contain the building abusiveness, which has proliferated in a huge way, even after the final deadline set for the building sanatoria. Among other things, they are widely known and have long occupied the judicial reports the investigations that have evidenced the complicity and inertia of some administrations (not of all) in the face of a worrying devastation of the territory. The significant presence in the cycle of the abusive cement of the camorristic organizations and also the rejection - which I would like to recall here - by the Constitutional Court of two laws of the Campania Region that intended in fact to introduce a further sanatoria are the framework within which this bill has taken place. The text - as I said just now - has been extensively modified by the House and has certainly been improved compared to the first reading, in particular with some articles establishing a fund for the demolition of abusive works and a national database on the development of the phenomenon. Now, the bottom is certainly valuable, too bad that resources are quite scarce. The main provision contained in Article 1, where, with an amendment to Legislative Decree No 106 of 2006, the famous priority criteria are introduced -the prosecutor's statement - that prosecutors would be required to adopt in ordering the execution of demolition orders. It is one of establishing an order of priority which, in the end, it itself will produce, in our opinion, not only a nothing of fact, but also the real grip through which, by contesting and appeals on appeals, no result will actually be produced in the plan of demolition itself. In addition, I would like to say here that, at the bottom of the priority list, the buildings completed on the date of the first and stablely inhabited judgment are placed. It is also confirmed the double channel, which allows the execution by prefects and municipal administrations. Well, it is very clear in the text, although improved by the House of Deputies, an attempt to procrastinate and thus avoid, among other things, the scarcity of resources made available for the execution, the demolition of abusive artifacts, in the presumption, not declared in the article (I refer above all to this last order of priority, i.e. the inhabited artifacts), that there is an abuse of necessity or justification for all this. As we have also heard today in some speeches in general debate, the abuse of necessity is called for as a justification for a more tolerant attitude. The many investigations I mentioned at the outset have clearly shown the origin of capital and materials used in abusive construction. I am thinking of the resounding cases of illegality of some municipalities, where thousands of illegal buildings are built, in the face of total inertia on the part of public administrations. Moreover, to put at the bottom of the priorities for demolitions the buildings completed and permanently inhabited on the date of the judgment at first instance, in our opinion will have the side effect of prompting the promoters of the building abuses to accelerate the constructions that had not been finished after the first investigation of the law enforcement, in order to arrive at the judgment with the completed and inhabited property, condition this that in fact would allow the access to a form of impunity. Among other things, on this subject we have tabled a specific amendment aimed precisely at bringing back the assessment of the state of completion of the property on the date of the first report of finding the abuse. We have also tabled another amendment, which we consider to be of particular importance, aimed at supplementing the list of priorities for demolitions with protected natural areas established by law, which have been massacred in Campania, as in other regions, by building abuse. I am amazed that the bill had, all in all, a very long birth, although of course others will say that it was a long birth. Many interests and pressures have been concentrated on this bill; Governor De Luca has already announced the approval of the measure in full and I believe, among other things, that a regional bill on the subject in Campania is in progress. Moreover, De Luca says it clearly: a sanatoria is needed, it is a matter of common sense. At least De Luca has the courage to call the measure by name and surname, that is sanatoria, because in fact this is the case. There is therefore a very strong push in this regard, while we have not found a equally strong push, by the Government and the majority, in addressing the complexity of the issues of the disruption of the territory and its safeguard. We are at the end of the legislature and there are now two legislatures that, between the House and the Senate, bypass the bill on the consumption of the soil. In the face of enormous problems, continuous and constant, incredible problems concerning the protection and protection of the territory, problems that are before the eyes of all of which we remember only in the face of tragedies, of disruption of the territory and of the urban policies in the cities, we, instead of putting hand to regulations of safeguard and further protection of our territory and the safety of the citizens of our country, instead of giving a push, finally, after many promises, to approve a good law against the consumption of the soil - which, among other things, is here in the Senate - we savour that measure and take time and make arrive on a preferential lane a measure like that to our examination. We have been waiting for a long time and we keep this in mind every time, even when examining the Stability Act: how many times have we put forward detailed proposals for amendments on these issues, but we have never had the pleasure of discussing or speeding up the measures in progress. Let's think about the issue of building security. Why today, with an amendment to Senator Mineo's first signature, did we want to re-examine the obligatory nature of the building's file? Because it is a question of the safety of buildings where, we know perfectly well, the seismic risk is serious and also in the areas that are touched by this bill. But are these aspects at the top of the political priorities, as far as criteria are concerned, in this Parliament and in this majority? Unfortunately, it seems to us once again that it is not. Also on the obligatory file of the building, we heard a lot of talk. We tried, President Lanzillotta remembers it perfectly, even at the level of municipal administration, with the Junta Rutelli, but there were other outcomes. Then, however, the drama arrives, the earthquakes arrive and we continue to pretend nothing. On the other hand, a measure such as this goes ahead, which we must say without being afraid to hide behind the words, we believe to be another masked sanatorium, which speaks of demolitions but in reality puts the sticks between the wheels to the possibility of finally getting to the demolitions, both because of the scarcity of the resources provided for in the fund, and for having put in place a mechanism that will serve only and only to prevent many of the procures from being able to reach the demolitions. I would also like to say something else before concluding, President: in our country there are many Regions and many municipalities that have been afflicted for all these years by the problem of abuse and we have had condones on condons; now, can we, once again, make it clear that all in all, in the end, there is a road to condoning? This would mean, once again, inciting lawlessness, inciting the massacre of the territory, because we would make it clear that there is never an end word and that always, every time, a window opens to condone abuse, to continue to do serious damage to our territory, to the landscape and to attack the lives of citizens, because then all this is paid in terms of security. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u33	Senator Palma is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u34	Madam President, I have listened very carefully to this morning's debate, and I must say that I was puzzled by some of the retromarks that some members of certain political parties have made in relation to the previous reading that had taken place here in the Senate. Are we satisfied with the text from the House? Definitely not. It is a text which deviates from what was almost unanimously voted on in the Senate and which, in our opinion, is less effective, precisely in terms of the protection of general legality, than that which we have transmitted. However, we realize, Mr President, that there is now a need for this measure to be finally implemented, as it affects the lives and fate of many citizens of this country. So we are consistent with that saying, which is quite frequent in politics, according to which the best is preferable to the best. That is why the Forza Italia Group has not tabled any amendments to the measure. We want to solve this problem once and for all and, through its resolution, give a sufficiently limited sense to the hopes of all those citizens who are involved in the phenomenon in attention. I do not want to repeat the speech here, which was very well done by Senator Falanga, concerning the history of the Campania Region, but when I hear about legality, as Senator De Petris did last, I ask myself: how do we talk about legality when we refer to lands where the real illegality was the absence of the State, a State that, due to omissions or clientele intent, did not make the regulatory plans and allowed exactly what happened? We take note of this and in the face of a situation such as that which has occurred we only indicate criteria of common sense in order to proceed to the execution of the demolition orders. We really do not understand the reason why we should not bring down, before the so-called homes of necessity, dangerous houses, houses of the mafias, houses of speculation, hotels and so on. The chronological criterion is such as to provoke great injustices. With this measure we simply say: take down all the abusive artifacts, all of them, but according to a plan and order inspired by common sense: first what is more illegal or more dangerous, then what has a lesser illegality and an almost absent danger. You see, I'm in the fourth parliamentary term and I think I'm familiar with parliamentary tricks. I do not want to say anything at all and I do not want to create controversy with anyone, but I must explain to myself the reason why this measure, which was fired on 22 January 2014, remained firm until May 2016 in the Chamber of Deputies. We all know what is the best way not to take a measure: exactly, to stop it in a branch of Parliament and then re-transmit it 'death'. We still have time, and that is why I agree with what the rapporteur says, namely the call for the withdrawal of all the amendments, because an amendment to this measure, apart from the one necessary for budgetary reasons, would reopen the shuttle and give it back to obstructive behaviour. You see, senators, to the extent that you want to pay attention to my words, obstructions go well on deeply political issues, where there is a disagreement between the majority and the opposition, but I really can't understand how they can be dealt with in a situation where (at least here in the Senate) there was a common interest between the majority and the opposition. I would remind everyone that this measure has been voted unanimously or almost unanimously, that all political movements have contributed by their vote to its launch. I also wonder how we can obstruct measures that affect people's living skin. One could say no to the measure under consideration; the House could have blocked it, but it did not; it chose the smartest, most propagandistic route, that of latent obstructionism. In the meantime, however, not large hotels have been destroyed, not the houses of the mobsters, not the dangerous houses: abusive and illegal artifacts have been killed, yes, but of poor people. That is what has happened over the last two years, and that is why we have not tabled and will not table amendments. Senators Buccarella and Lumia know well, beyond the various modifications, what an important technical error there is in the measure in question; a technical error so important that it would almost legitimately make suspect that it was deliberately committed, precisely to impose a new shuttle. We're not gonna lend ourselves to this game. I believe that, from the point of view of the parties, the majority of the Senate is the same as the House and the Democratic Party has objectively cooperated, here in the Senate, for a balanced and as shared as possible drafting of the text (in the face of so many commentators and so many people who have made facade battles for their lives and I thank many members of the Democratic Party. All we do in this measure is repeat the programme protocols drawn up by the prosecutors of the Republic of Campania. How can it be said that a measure that repeats the protocols imagined by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Santa Maria Capua Vetere, by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Nola, by the same Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Salerno and that is absolutely in line with the general protocol laid down by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Syracuse? That is why we will not lend ourselves to this operation. We shall vote, of course, on the amendments tabled by the rapporteur, Mr Caliendo, which relate exclusively to the part relating to the 2016 budget, but we will not vote on any other one. Senator Falanga, there is no need for you to resign if within twenty days this measure is not finally to be launched by the House of Deputies. There is no need for a simple reason: this provision is now in the responsibility of the Democratic Party and it is up to the Democratic Party, once we vary it here with the changes we have to make, to fire it permanently in the House. And if that doesn't happen, then the tricks will be discovered, Senator Falanga. Everyone will assume their responsibilities and, thank God, a few months from now there will be the electoral deadline and the voters of our national territory and even Campania will understand well who, in reality, is on the side of the citizens and intends to protect their interests, and who, perhaps smiling or giggling, claims only in words to be on the side of the citizens. So, Senator Falanga, it's useless for you to resign. We await, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, but I remember that there are about 350,000 people - and Senator Capacchione can well say that - interested in this problem. Let's forget about fathers, women and children because I don't want to be pathetic, but there are whole families who know perfectly well that, if this provision from here soon will not be launched, they will lose their home, with everything that a house represents for each of us. And Senator Falanga is right when today he recalled that a law of the State even allows the sale of abusive artifacts and many of these artifacts were sold or - mocking jokes - transmitted by succession: so people paid their taxes and the notary, but will find, sooner or later, if we do not vary this provision, in front of the killing of that mass of memories represented by a house. Senator Falanga, we're waiting. Responsibility lies with the Democratic Party. Subsequently, voters will do justice to what has happened so far in these Houses of Parliament. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII and ALA-SCCLP Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u35	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u36	Madam President, the rapporteur cannot take his views into account in his reply; the rapporteur should generally stick to the Commission's will and represent it to the House. We have evaluated all the aspects that have been represented here also by the friends of the 5 Star Movement and that is, we have assessed that, although there are things that we did not like, our text was much more specific. So I understand, but I would like to remind the senators of the Five Star Movement of the reasons that led us, in the Commission, to withdraw all the amendments and to invite them to have a shared text of the House and Senate. Senator Cappelletti, Senator Buccarella, I will give a favourable opinion on the agenda G1,100, which resolves a problem and does not need to have an amendment immediately; the same applies to other agendas. However, I urge everyone to take account of the assessment made in the Commission: we need to have a text that is in line with the one approved by the House of Deputies (apart from that small correction concerning the budget, for which nothing is needed and which does not prevent the House of Deputies from deciding immediately). I invite you to do this, ladies and gentlemen, not because I do not want our Senator Falanga to abandon the Senate if within twenty days the House of Deputies should not finally approve this measure. I would ask you to do this because, as you will certainly understand, whatever you want to do in the Justice Commission of the House of Deputies, I believe there is a possibility of addressing the President of the House so that, since it is a text that has the same same content in the version of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, except for a small correction due to the fact that it is voted in 2017 and not in 2016, it can be taken into account immediately. Madam President, I do not want to question anything, I just want to invite everyone to think about it and I would like the Groups to speak about the individual amendments. If they are all withdrawn, then we can all discuss the agendas, which represent that will, which can also be shared by the rapporteur in relation to what was the debate in the Commission and I believe that we could all agree and in a short time get to the end of this measure. [[Applause from Senator Pelino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u37	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which amendments have been tabled and an agenda, which will be discussed, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u38	Madam President, I call for the withdrawal of all the amendments or the opinion is against, pointing out that the subject of one of the amendments is dealt with on the agenda G1,100, signed by Senators Buccarella and Cappelletti, whom I invite the Government to accept. [[Senator Falanga points out that he wants to intervene]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u39	We are being illustrated, Senator Falanga, and you are not tabling amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u40	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u43	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to ask your attention, because when the authors of the amendments were asked to present them, I was entering the Chamber and I was unable to be seen by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u44	Senator Buccarella may speak later in an explanation of vote. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senators Nugnes and Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Mineo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u47	BUCCARELLA (M5S). Madam President, Amendment 1,100 seeks to correct a mistake to which I have heard that Senator Caliendo has also referred. There is also a similar agenda, but at this point I believe that this House should consider voting in favour of the amendment. In the passage from the Chamber of Deputies to the Senate, regarding one of the criteria that must be adequately considered by the prosecutors, that is, the one concerning the subjects definitively condemned for Mafia crimes, has disappeared the following inscription: "even if inhabited by the members of the family". In essence, while in the previous text of the Senate these properties, if in the availability of substantially mafia subjects, even if inhabited by family members, were to be taken into account in the established order, in the current version, that we are going to vote, this engraved is no longer there. The obvious concern is that the camorrist or the mobster or the 'ndranghetist', who has already been the subject of criminal proceedings and has suffered a conviction, when the prosecutor will have to implement the demolition order, may oppose to that order of execution some circumstance pertaining to the fact that a relative - not a close relative, but because we speak of a family tout court, it could also be a cousin - maybe he is forced in a wheelchair or has other disabilities or is found in other situations that can, apparently rightly, urge a blockade of the demolition. This instrument could therefore be used in an arted manner, especially by the stakeholders, who - as they say - I recommend them to you. Since a further passage to the House seems to me to be obvious, given the amendments made necessary by the remarks of the Budget Committee, I think it is appropriate that the Assembly should reinsert the engraving even if inhabited by the members of the family in point 3 of the c- bis letter which is intended to be introduced by this bill. I repeat: if we do not do it now, we will no longer do it. There is a similar agenda, which we have also proposed as an alternative, certainly much less incisive than a change in the text of the law, which would leave a trace of parliamentary work and we assume that there is a general willingness of most political groups to sign that agenda and the Government to accept it, but it is the case, since we have the possibility, to amend the text of the law by restoring the engraving that was present and that has mysteriously disappeared in the passage to the House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u50	CAPACCHIONE (PD). On Amendment 1,100, I wanted to supplement the information for the benefit of this House, if possible. We were all surprised at the deletion of the engraving made by the House, but in the reading of the parliamentary acts we learned that this had taken place at the express request - which we did not share - of the magistrates, who believed that such an incision could further burden the verification of the conditions for which a reduction could not be made. That is why I believe that the agenda is sufficient, because it nevertheless gives the judges an indication of Parliament's will on this matter. However, I would like to specify one aspect: it is very suggestive what we are discussing - I say it just coming from an area with a very high mafia density - but the houses of the camorristi or of the condemned definitively under Article 416- bis and their family members are confiscated and paradoxically almost all those houses, once acquired from the heritage of the State, are healed. So, we're talking about something that happens theoretically, that can happen, but in practice it's not possible because it's houses that have already become state property. I believe that Parliament's indication, which we gave in the first draft of the text here in the Senate, can be marked with an agenda, but that there is no need for an amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u51	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,100, tabled by Senators Buccarella and Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Mineo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the agenda G1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u52	I give a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u53	On the agenda, Mr G1,100, the opinion was in favour of a reformulation which made it more precise. I propose to replace the last sentence which reads: "even if inhabited by members of the family" with the following sentence: "even if inhabited by persons related to the aforementioned by relationships of kinship, marriage or civil union, affinity or stable cohabitation."
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u54	Senator Buccarella, do you accept the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u55	All right, Madam President. I would like to take this opportunity, if I may, to reply briefly to Mr Capacchione. We have also examined whether the House, in the course of hearings, had made specific comments on this point, as Mr Verini, if I recall correctly, had leaked from some press editions. This verification did not give a positive result. I ask if, kindly, even later, you can give us satisfaction in knowing where this happened, by whom and when. At least we will give ourselves a reason for your vote against the amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u56	Does he insist on voting on the agenda so reworded? BUCCARELLA (M5S). Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u57	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u59	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, I would like to ask Senator Buccarella to allow my signature to be affixed to the agenda that he has presented. This is to say that, when you say something right and acceptable, we don't have - at least I do - any problem with putting our faces on it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Buccarella, do you accept your application?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u60	Not because Senator Falanga has threatened to resign if this bill does not pass (in fact, this would militate in the opposite direction), we accept the senator's signature. [[Laughter and applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u61	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100 (text 2), tabled by Senator Buccarella and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u64	WOMAN (M5S). Madam President, my vote, which was mistakenly opposed, is to be understood as uniform to that of the Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u65	We take note of that. We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 2, introduced by the House of Deputies, on which an agenda has been presented, which is intended to be presented, on which I invite the representative of the Government to give its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u66	Madam President, I am in favour of the G2.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u67	Is Senator Caliendo associated with the government's opinion?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u68	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u69	Having been requested, we shall now proceed to the vote on the G2100 agenda. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.100, presented by Senators Lo Moro and Guerra. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us now turn to the amendment to include an additional article after Article 2, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u70	Madam President, I am referring to Amendment 2.0.100, but I take the floor to say that, when this measure comes back to the House, I really would not understand a vote that is not in favour of it. This is an interpretative amendment, which aims only to clarify a point on which judgments have been made which have established this principle several times.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u71	I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on this amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u72	Madam President, I would like to make an invitation to withdraw. Senator Lo Moro knows that the agenda we have just voted on, with a favourable opinion from the Government and the rapporteur, has the same content. I therefore call for the withdrawal because, if we vote on the amendment, it was pointless to vote on the agenda. If it is not withdrawn, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u73	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u74	I would ask the presenters if they accept the invitation to withdraw.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u75	Madam President, I am very surprised that we first rejected an amendment and then voted on an agenda that said the same thing as the amendment. We have now adopted an agenda and then rejected the amendment which, of course, would implement the agenda. It seems to me that we are following a way that is not rational. I therefore insist on the vote on Amendment 2.0.100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u76	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.100, tabled by Senators Lo Moro and Guerra. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 3, introduced by the House of Deputies, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u77	Madam President, the G3.101 agenda commits the Government to taking appropriate measures to allow an adequate and progressive increase in the overall allocation of the rotation fund. We realize, in fact, that ten million euros are very little compared to the need to use the funds to carry out all the demolition works. It is true that it is a revolving fund and it is true that it adds and does not replace the existing fund. Nevertheless, we call on the Government to commit itself to a progressive increase in the funds allocated to this. The G3.103 agenda commits the Government in any case to provide for direct access mechanisms by prosecutors to the expenditure chapter already planned. This is an instance that was essentially presented to us in the Commission by the vast majority of the prosecutors who have been audited and to whom it is really necessary to pay the attention they need, also in order to make the whole process much faster.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u78	The amendments and the remaining agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u79	I call on the two amendments 3,100 and 3,101 to be withdrawn. As regards agendas, the opinion was in favour of the agendas for G3.100, G3.102 and G3.103. The G3101 agenda, although it shares its content, does not fall within the competence of either the rapporteur or the Government, since it is a financial activity of the Cassa depositi e loani, and therefore I think it is to be accepted as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u80	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u81	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u82	MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3,100, tabled by Senators Lo Moro and Guerra. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u85	MARTELLI (M5S). Madam President, in the vote on the previous amendment, the whole Group mistakenly voted in favour, where we wanted to vote against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u86	We take note of that, Senator Martelli. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3,500, tabled by the rapporteur, which fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 3,101 is impervious. The G3.100 agenda was accepted by the Government. Are you insisting on the vote, Senator Lo Moro? LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP). Yes, Madam President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.100, presented by Senators Lo Moro and Guerra. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Cappelletti, do you accept the rewording of the agenda G3.101? Mr Capelletti (M5S). Yes, Madam President, and I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.101 (text 2), presented by Senator Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The agendas of the G3,102 and G3,103 were accepted by the Government and the presenter insists on the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.102, presented by Senator Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.103, presented by Senator Cappelletti. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Rule 4, introduced by the House of Deputies, on which amendments and agendas have been tabled, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u87	Madam President, I would like to draw the House's attention to Amendment No 4,100, because, as the senators know, criticism of the whole measure is very strong among the people who deal with ecological issues. There is a document, signed by Bardini, Emiliani, Amendola and De Lucia, in which it is said that, instead of ever postponing the demolition of artifacts, which can be inhabited, but can also be very rich villas and not apartments of necessity, the Municipalities should be forced to do their work, until they dissolve the Municipalities that do not intervene and do not control the abuse. This amendment is centred on precisely this, that is not on the punishment of someone or on a sanatorium, with the usual logic of pardon; it focuses on the attempt to introduce correct practices by the municipalities, which essentially provide for the mapping of the artifact, the file of the building, so that it is known what can be saved and what instead must, for reasons of public interest, be destroyed. This, in my opinion, is the only real criterion for dealing with the problem. I would ask the senators to vote conscientiously in favour of this amendment, which has exactly the meaning that I have tried to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u88	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u89	Madam President, the opinion is against all the amendments, with the exception of Amendment 4,500. As for the G4100 agenda, I call on the presenter to replace the words "the Government is committed to" by the following: "Recommends the Government to the Government of "the same" for the same reason as before. I agree with the content of the agenda but, since it is neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Commission's responsibility, I can only ask for its amendment, given its economic commitment. The opinion was in favour of the G4.101 agenda, and I would ask you to withdraw Amendment 4.0.100, otherwise the opinion would be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u90	Madam President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u91	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 4.1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 4.1 tabled by Senator Nugnes. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 4,500, tabled by the rapporteur, which fulfils a condition laid down by the Budget Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4,100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4,100, tabled by Senator Mineo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Moronese, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the G4100 agenda? MORONESE (M5S). Yes, I accept and insist on the vote, as well as on the agenda G4.101. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4.100 (text 2), tabled by Senators Nugnes and Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G4.101, tabled by Senators Nugnes and Moronese. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 4 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 4.0.100, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for a vote is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). Pursuant to Rule 102-bis of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 4.0.100, tabled by Senator Mineo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u94	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to say a few words, because many, perhaps too many, have been spent. The draft law was born in this branch of Parliament with an approach and was then modified in the Chamber of Deputies, to arrive at an extremely complex and also difficult to read text. It goes without saying that this is a case which the measure in question does not want to solve, but to expand and prolong its effects. More than just a case, what is still raging in many parts of our country is unfortunately a phenomenon of widespread lawlessness. An illegality that our country still insists on pursuing and certainly not on resolving. These are, in fact, situations that actually, looking at what should be our degree of civilization, seem almost incredible. In some parts of the country, in order to install a woodshed you need to undertake an expensive building practice, get permission to build and pay the urbanization charges. In other places, however, as can be seen from the data provided, we talk about thousands of works performed completely or in any case in part abusively. This is a very widespread misdemeanor: almost 70,000 buildings would be the subject of a demolition order. If we make a calculation, considering at least three people for each household and assuming that each property can accommodate a family, we are talking about 200,000 people, that is an entire city capital. Unfortunately it is a situation that still exists and that for Italy is definitely a national shame, I pass the term, which exposes us to an international public playful, almost as if only in Italy there is a living in abusive real estate and as if only in Italy there were constructions in bound landscapes. In front of this public, our response is contained in the provision to our examination, on which we had advanced strong perplexities that fuel a very strong opposition. That is precisely why we have not proposed amendments: the text is not even amendable, it cannot be improved. In fact, in the end, we are talking about a measure which is only intended to confuse and delay operations. We must stop this unworthy spectacle for our country. Some parts of our beautiful Italy must not be marked as the homeland of abuse. Let me also make a point. It is true what some colleagues have said: maybe in these buildings live families who, when they see themselves demolish the house, still lose the environment in which they live, in which they have raised their children and for which they have also invested resources. But let's pass a similitude: let's consider a drug dealer. If you start thinking about where he was born - maybe in the suburbs - and the fact that he didn't have a good education and the fact that the father in turn was a criminal, in the end even the smallest criminal can suffer. Any situation can fuel a similar feeling. But when we are here, in law-making, we cannot take into account the individual contexts, even familiar ones, of pain and despair. A state must first protect legality because our country can only grow in a context of legality. We should not, therefore, use rules such as this that come almost to admit, in the premises, that there is the possibility of deregulation. In fact, if we deepen, the problem is not only that abusive buildings are built, perhaps not respecting the regulatory plan, the plan of interventions or any urban plan. We are talking about homes, buildings that are built without the slightest respect for safety regulations, from installations to ceilings, to floors. (17.30) (Follows STEFANI). There are people who live in extremely dangerous contexts. And to think that at the moment when we analyze this situation and adopt a measure like this there are - as a colleague before has anticipated - legislative proposals to the examination of the Veneto Region, from which I come, precisely on the consumption of the soil. Standards that reveal a high degree of civilisation are already being examined, because urbanisation needs to be considered and evaluated. Therefore, we are now faced with a serious phenomenon to which basically no response is given, because the measure in our examination does not solve the problem of abuse and does not solve the problem of deregulation. They are rules to create confusion and to determine a situation from which (but it seems that we are not even allowed to think) someone could profit. Fortunately, the House of Deputies has made some adjustments to the initial draft, but it is a text which is absolutely unacceptable to us. We are and will always remain of the idea that in Italy must be benefited by those who respect the law and those who are honest and cannot be predicted, for cases where the laws are not respected, formulas like this that perhaps, in the face of a remarkable problem, identify palliatives or solutions that for us are absolutely unacceptable. That is why the Group of the North Legacy will vote against the measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u95	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u97	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very strange measure which, starting from the Senate in a certain way and then transmitted to the House of Deputies, has returned here in a completely different way. It is strange because the position that we wanted to give to this set of rules is part of a legislative decree that has nothing to do with the matter, but that gives us the certainty, or at least the feeling, of how important it is for those who have problems of abusiveness and who defend situations of abusiveness, make sure that they become norms of a general nature. Strange because at the beginning, in the first phase, we were talking about "priority" and now, almost with a tautology, we replace the word "priority" with the word "criteria" (which etymologically dates back to the Greek verb krino); But then everything is softened when it is said that this situation needs to be taken into account and, therefore, a different formulation is recommended. Strange is also the wording that is given to these criteria to be taken into account, because the prosecutor is asked for a surplus of investigation, a deepening and a verification of the criteria that will greatly lengthen the time, bringing to the Greek calende any possibility to intervene, as I will say shortly. Strange because this bill contains within it a trojan horse, to borrow a term of computer science, that is a horse of Troy, because the priority is usually attributed to the buildings under construction, or in any case not completed at the date of the sentence of conviction of first degree, and to the properties not permanently inhabited. It is easy to think about the escamotage that will be used by those who want to blow up any killing: everyone will find a son or a relative, more or less far away, to make sure that the killing is not carried out, because the abusive property will be considered permanently inhabited. It was said and said: made the law, found the deception. Here, even, deception has been suggested and written in the law: I give you these criteria, but you can also bypass them in this way. Strange also because there are indications from all prosecutors of the Republic, ordinary and general, who have intervened, according to which these criteria will open the way to a huge and infinite dispute, because lawyers will rightly enforce the right of defence, will do execution accidents not to end that will last years, even ten years, and everything will be suspended for a very long time. Along with these oddities there is also an aberration. Just think that for the abusive houses built in protected areas (it is a very serious aspect) these demolitions will be stopped. I am referring to unfair constructions in protected areas with environmental and hydrogeological constraints, because the bill provides to put these cases in the last place. This is a real aberration. I would add that if ever the draft law in question were to enter into force, it would be of particular gravity and not acceptable, because in substance it permanently legalizes abuse, with future effects that have the character of permanence. The abusive houses, provided that they are inhabited in any way, with those escapisms and with those cheatings, will still be saved. It is not acceptable that this bill is based on the well-known distinction of convenience between what is considered the abusing of speculation and the abusing of necessity, that is, the one constituted by the inhabited houses, which will be queued in order to avoid the demolitions. What, then, will be the effects of this bill? If it comes into force it will give certainty that the demolitions will be stopped for some reasons that I have already indicated, but also for the next ones that I am going to indicate. First of all, the figure which has been allocated and which is expected to be allocated at the end of the legislative work is very low and it is sufficient - according to a material calculation that has been made - to allow in the course of a year 130-140 demolitions and this, in the face of tens of thousands of cases, is really laughable. In addition, no forces, structures or personnel are given to intervene. Then there is another factor: most of the houses are inhabited, so it will be put in line with the priorities, with contempt for all the considerations I made earlier. However, the even more serious aspect of this bill is that its application has no time limit, unlike for example the so vicious condones. This means that in the near future, in a few months and in a few years, or in any case in any situation until the abolition of the norm, anyone will be able to physically build a villa or a house in a valley, on a coast, in a valuable area, in any area, even subject to constraints; in this way the Italian Parliament is preparing to legalize permanently the building abuse, instead of blocking it. On this point, let us add another consideration. It is not that there is simply a risk that this rule can be used by organised crime; it is certain that the rule will be used by crime, it will become an important instrument in its hands. In fact, with various systems, through the Trojan horses of which it was said before, with the forerunners, with the indication of criteria of necessity provided by law, you can continue to build abusive houses in contempt of the fundamental law that concerns this matter. This, basically, is the reality. Instead of adopting stricter and stricter rules to cut down and eliminate abuse from the outset and possibly even to the Commission of the Municipalities that are not rigorous and that show that they do not respect the rules on the fight against building abuse, we adopt standards of this type that are certainly not acceptable and not even presentable. This is a bit of an Italian vice that, in the face of certain situations and tragedies, such as those caused by hydrogeological disruption, sometimes weeps crocodile tears, because it hides behind the norms it approves and, after pouring crocodile tears for the serious tragedies that occur continuously in our country, the next day it returns to close its eyes and instead of fighting building abuse resumes to favor it. I should like to conclude by recalling here a fundamental step in our Constitution, which also sheds light in terms of constitutional illegitimacy on some of these rules. In the second paragraph of Article 9 of our Constitution it is said that the Republic protects the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. The draft law that we are about to vote does not absolutely protect this primary good, so primary that it has been included in the fundamental and primary part of our Constitutional Charter. Someone called this measure a masked pardon, but in reality it is worse, because it is not masked: it is a real, obvious, clear and above all permanent pardon. For this reason, the Article 1-MDP Group will vote against. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u98	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u100	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, Senator Guerra would like to remind you of the difference between an amendment and an agenda. The Senate Assembly can vote adversely on an amendment and favorably on an agenda that has the same content. Senator Guerra cannot be surprised, because this is parliamentary technique and you will know the difference between the agenda and the amendment. The last speech we have heard is that of Senator Casson, and I would like to compare it with the statements that have come to me at this time by Mr Stefano Ciafani, Director-General of Legambiente. Senator Casson says that this is not a disguised pardon, but an unmasked pardon. Legambiente, through Mr. Stefano Ciafani, says instead that it is a useless measure. Then I say, you who admonish him, at least try to find reasons that are at least shared among you. Is it a measure that has an impact or is it a measure that has no impact? Senator Palma briefly talked about the value of the house. I don't know, Senator Casson, what relationship there is in Venice between the citizen and the house in which he lives. For us, the people of the South, the relationship is intense: inside the house there are memories, history, joys, sorrows, dramas, holidays, Christmas. This is the culture of the people of the South. We're talking about demolishing houses that have been standing for 30 years. I would have understood if, in the immediacy of the wrongdoing, the State had intervened promptly; but after people's lives were consumed in a house, we cannot say that we are killing them because it was badly bought. Yet, as I said this morning, the state was entrusted, because the notary is a public officer representing the State and the notary had it bought by its owner. But now that state that made him buy it, after 30 years, he says, I'm sorry, but I'm gonna have to take it down for you. That's the point, Senator Casson. [[Comments of Senator Giarrusso]] This measure, all in all, does nothing but set priority criteria between certain types of buildings and other types. If you dispute to me the fact that I want the homes of necessity to be demolished, those occupied by those who have committed the abuse or even by those who have not committed the abuse in order to advance their slaughter to that of the hotel on the sea, then you cannot say that I want to protect the building abuse of Gennaro Esposito. I'm probably the one who thinks, legitimately, that you want to protect, defend and protect the big building speculators and the big hoteliers. As for expenditure, I have already said: someone now, in some interviews, has said that 10 million euros are few, but we must not neglect to consider that the expenditure on demolition is not the responsibility of the State, but it is the responsibility of the person who violated the law. Certainly from the bricklayer Gennaro Esposito it is difficult for the State to recover the money that he anticipated, because an anticipation is involved. It is false the message that you want to transfer, that it is the State that then has to pay for the demolitions. That is not true, because they are demolitions to the detriment of those who have violated the law. Then it is clear that it is very difficult for the State to recover the sums from the bricklayer. Be careful, however, because from the building speculator or from the hotel owner of the Sicilian coast or bell, from people like this yes that you can recover the sum. So, if a question of costs is also raised, the measure goes in the right direction, which does not involve expenditure and costs for the State: that is the point. I do not understand the opposition to this measure. It is likely that those who oppose it argue that this is an electoral measure, which will bring a consensus. Gentlemen, take your consent! I just want the satisfaction of having done something useful for the people of my land. Take your vows! [[Applause from Senator Barani.]] Most likely I won't be a candidate. Believe me, I'm tired of being between you. It's been ten years. [[Comments from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u101	Senator Falanga, it was going so well. He slipped right now.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u102	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Mr Calderoli, what must I say to you: except for your closeness and your knowledge? I do: except for the Calderoli Presidency, I am not so sorry to leave this assembly of the Senate... [[Comments of Senators Fornaro and Giarrusso]] and also by Senator Giarrusso.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u103	Senator Falanga, come back to the subject of your speech. You threatened to leave if the law had not been passed. Temptation...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u104	FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). Let's get back to the topic. Senator Buccarella proposes an amendment which - as I said - I agree with. It is not right that the House of Deputies has removed the reference to property occupied by criminals or their family members. I do not agree with that deletion, but we know very well that, most likely, that deletion may have been a further trick in allowing the Senate to further amend the text. I didn't fall into this trap. Alas, it seems to me that Senator Buccarella has fallen to us, even if at the point of substance this is correct. However, I want to say that the provision of the criteria and, within them, to the prosecutors of the Republic is reserved the possibility of a choice in the identification of the buildings that does not go beyond the criteria that we set by law, but that can be determined on the basis of the considerations and reflections of each of them. I therefore appreciated the 5 Star Movement's vote in favour of individual articles. I think that, having voted on the articles, they will probably also vote on the text. Mr Capelletti (M5S). No! FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). They say no: they voted on the articles and will not vote on the text as a whole. BULGARRELLI (M5S). We did not vote in favour of all the articles! FALANGA (ALA-SCLP). I am convinced, Senators of the 5 Star Movement, that you share the provision, even if you do not vote for it. Since I believe that in this House the vote against will not be incisive for the adoption of the text, I shall deal with it. But I am convinced - and I am pleased about this - that the 5 Star Movement also shares the substance of the text. My parliamentary group will vote in favour of the measure and I thank Senator Caliendo for the work he has done in the adjustment of the budgetary profile that had been raised by the 5th Commission. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u105	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the students of the Faculty of Letters and Philosophy - Master's degree in information science and Bachelor's degree in communication science at the University Tor Vergata in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u108	ALBERTINI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, in some critical speeches I have heard in general debate, the question - which can be shared in itself - has been raised that this measure is yet another surrender to lawlessness, specifically building abuse, an endemic problem in some territories of our country. But if we add the millions, perhaps the billions of cubic meters scattered in the territory that have not been greeted by regular approvals, perhaps the dimensions are even greater than those detailed in some particular territories of our country. On the other hand, I will see this measure not as a surrender to lawlessness, but rather as an attempt to converge towards the rationality of a choice that is precisely that, in the face of a phenomenon such as abuse, of such enormous dimensions that it cannot be faced with a sponge stroke and erased after decades in which there has been tolerance, to introduce priority criteria in the necessary interventions. This measure, which does not by chance have the title: "Provisions on criteria for the execution of procedures for the demolition of abusive artifacts," does precisely this: in the face of a really radically unmanageable situation, it introduces priorities, time sequences, appropriate choices so that over time we can achieve a more acceptable and more tolerable condition. I describe very briefly the salient features of this measure, and I say immediately, anticipating our vote in favour, that we of the Group of Popular Alternatives recognize ourselves in it. It retains, with appropriate balance criterion, the double track of the owners of the executivity of the demolition, which in the first place can only be the judicial authority, when there has been a final conviction in the criminal court and the demolition object of the sentence has not been executed. In addition, the administrative authorities remain in the field, which also has greater powers of discretion in the most appropriate execution. With regard to the priority criteria of the interventions, we cannot fail to recognize that they have privileged themselves, in the index of severity in the execution of the demolition measures, precisely those buildings that are in an even more critical condition than the abuse in the general sense: those, that is, that they have a very serious environmental impact; those that are improperly built on state property or in areas subject to environmental or landscape constraints; the buildings that, for whatever reason, constitute a danger to public safety; those that have been built in places subject to dramatic situations, as some recent facts have shown, and in the absence of the necessary criteria for them to be in conditions of stability. And then, with regard to the fight against crime - and in this context, Mr Casson's position - all property in the availability of persons convicted for the mafia-type association or for the aggravated crimes under the organized anti-crime laws also falls within the priority characteristics of the interventions. Moreover, with regard to the demolitions activated by the administrative authorities, the possibility was given to extend the use by the Municipality not only of its own means, but also of those of private enterprises and to use the technical-operational structures of the Ministry of Defence. A fund has been set up, someone considered insufficient - and it certainly is in relation to the size of the phenomenon, but it is something more and more usable than before - for the demolition of building abuse. Finally, a criterion of knowledge, of structural information is introduced with the national data of building abuse, which must collect the reports that the local administrative bodies are required to draw up each year in order to have the monitoring picture of the situation. In the final analysis, confirming my Group's vote in favour, I do not deny that the problem is much greater than what we are going to deal with by the means and resources under consideration. Certainly, however, with respect to the sequence of years, one every nine, in which we intervened, rather than to repress, to heal the abusing building with condones, the one under consideration is a measure that goes in the right direction and deserves our consent. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u111	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, Senator Albertini began his speech by saying that this is certainly not a measure that can be a surrender to lawlessness. Look, Senator Albertini - then I will answer others too - I think it is even worse: this is an incentive to lawlessness, and for a very simple reason. In general discussion we tried to highlight the absolutely questionable and serious elements contained in the measure, but in the end it is the general philosophy that is not good. We are talking about a very high number of abusive properties, probably about 70,000 abusive properties. In our country, among other things, there have been condones. With this measure we pretend to say that we set a priority order for demolitions. In fact, a series of instruments is being put in place - I mentioned earlier the statements by the Attorney General Riello of Naples, very clear from this point of view - which will allow, in fact, not to arrive at any demolition. Among other things, having also chosen a number of priority criteria, including that of preserving the so-called abuse of necessity, becomes other than Trojan horse. Rightly, with this system (finished and inhabited houses) it takes very little; on the one hand - as we have also pointed out through the amendments - there will be a further race to finish the buildings that have not been completed so far and, on the other hand, it does not take anything to occupy them and make them inhabited. And these are tricks and tricks that they will make, because that's the purpose. As for Senator Falanga's sentimental appeal, I did not understand whether Christmas, the family and the warmth of the house exist only where there are illegals and abuses, or only in a part of the country. But what reasoning are we doing? Take responsibility for all of you to say what you're doing. You didn't have the courage to make a pardon, because then, with the pardon, at least there is a beginning and an end, there is a window. Not here. This is a measure that has no time. We will have everything with comfort, as long as we go further and further. And we will not only have 70,000 abuses: you will see that next year we will have many more. Moreover, I would like to remind you that it is even worse, because - as you know - the concession is granted in sanatoria and, therefore, it is necessary to pay, as ordinary citizens do in many parts of the country - fortunately - who ask for a building concession and pay the concessionary charges. This isn't even gonna be here. I would like to make two comments. But hasn't all that happened in our country on the wave of an abuse that, in a substantial part of the country - I think of the South - destroyed the landscape, the primary goods, a heritage that belongs to everyone, that was the richness of those places, also from the point of view of the possibility of economic development? That is what happened. I am from Rome and we too have had the phenomenon of abuse. In fact, it has involved almost a million inhabitants. The sanatories have been done. And, even if concessions have been paid in sanatorium, that problem has not only caused enormous damage to a primary good protected by the Constitution - and it was good for Senator Casson to recall Article 9, because we always forget it - not only has it destroyed our territory - and before it had already done the abuse - but it has also broken the coffers of the municipal budgets. Think of what it cost to bring all the services and how high the urbanization costs were. Do you want us to talk about public transport in Rome? After all the wrong choices and the disaster of managing the ATAC, do you know what it means to have to take public transport to very distant areas, perhaps only for a small core? Do you know what it means to bring the urbanization works, to cross pieces of the Roman agro and, therefore, to induce even more devastation and constructions, even in areas that should be protected? The damage to the community is enormous. And we cannot continue to say - and I also address the Democratic Party - that the time of the condones is over, that the time comes for the protection of the territory, that finally comes the time to make the law against the consumption of the soil - but that is buried and can remain where it is - and then perform an operation like this. It is a law that has been called "Provisions on criteria for the execution of procedures for the demolition of abusive artifacts" when, in science and knowledge - and for this reason there is so much pressure - this provision serves only and only to ensure that those demolitions never arrive, especially in a territory where abuse and illegality have often been a whole and have been used also to the detriment of the poor people by organized crime and a political class that has skiplessly never made the regulatory plans and that has not decided to put in place real and serious works for the protection of the territory, to provide the answers they served and also to satisfy the housing needs. Therefore, for all these reasons, I believe that, although the House has somehow improved this measure, it has unfortunately not been mitigated its gravity which is even worse than another pardon. And I also say that the provision has been anticipated by Governor De Luca, who in the meantime has made himself a legging in the Region inspired by it. I just say to you that I only hope that it will end the other regional laws, which the Constitutional Court fortunately failed over time. You want to hide again, even trying to say that you have set criteria to save people who are most in difficulty. Senator Falanga has dared to say that in this way a demolition operation can finally be carried out against the great speculators, but in reality the operation is aimed only and only at doing so - as has rightly been pointed out also by the magistrates - to put the sticks between the wheels, so as not to reach any kind of demolition. This is the reality of the facts. For all these reasons, we will be totally opposed and will vote against the measure, because we really believe it to be a further favor to abuse and a real incentive to lawlessness. At this stage you will have to explain to the citizens who have to present the projects and counter-projects, to the citizens who have complied with the rules in order to build their own house. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and Art.1-MDP Groups and Senator D'Anna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u114	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, this measure was not dealt with in the Commission in its deliberations because the 5 Star Movement opposed it, together with other political groups, since we wanted to bring the debate to the House. This measure was and still is critical. So we wanted to have a discussion, to better understand and better understand what could be the solutions to these critical issues. But nothing has been clarified. It has not been clarified - for example - what it is for. It has been said that it serves to have an order of priority in the realization of the demolitions. But the prosecutors have already adopted an order of priority for the demolitions, with the organizational tools that have been introduced. It will be said that perhaps different prosecutors have introduced different priority criteria. Then, in order to respond to this objection, the Supreme Council of the judiciary has already intervened with its own guidelines, which have been issued for some time. The totality of the audit prosecutors was perplexed, if not an open opposition to this measure. It should be noted that it has been much improved compared to previous versions, but what is really certain is that every lawyer will be able to oppose the demolitions and will be able to ask why he wants to demolish his client's house, which maybe is a camorrist, instead of another home and will ask to verify that all the criteria have been met. In short, an avalanche of execution incidents is expected - they are very likely - that this risks paralyzing and certainly not speeding up the process for the execution of sentences. We did not have an answer from the debate, from the government and from the speakers to other important critical points of the measure. This rule could even become an instrument in the hands of crime, which can erect abusive houses in contempt of the law, putting in someone who dresses them, perhaps for the sole purpose of preventing the execution of the killings. We have not had an answer to the question as to why we are here discussing such a measure, which is potentially criminal for the reasons listed, and not already a more stringent rule that allows us to demolish abusive buildings at the time of their construction. Why don't we discuss a rule that makes it easy to commissary those municipalities that are not strict in enforcing the law with regard to abuse? We wonder why the measure in question has put at the centre not already the protection of the territory, but the protection of those who made the abusive property. I repeat that the protection of the territory must be at the centre and not the management of demolitions. The 5 Star Movement has managed to improve the regulatory proposal. We have inserted the revolving fund, because the problem of demolition in our country is all there: it is a problem linked to the lack of funds. We have requested and obtained the creation of the database of illegal real estate, which is still missing in our country in 2017. However, these positive innovations are not enough to make us vote in favour, because the new criteria introduced will lead to severe delays in the demolition procedures, in particular in the light of the provisions of Article 1 (3) (b), which strictly imposes - not simply recommends - the priority criteria. I mean, we don't want to run the risk of being functional to the interests of the organized underworld. For all these reasons, I declare the 5 Star Movement's vote against this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u117	DE SIANO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in favour of the Forza Italia Group's draft law: Provisions on criteria for the execution of procedures for the demolition of abusive articles Of course, the measure under consideration is not the resolution of the problem that involves so many pieces of our country, but it is a response that Parliament gives to a real problem, that exists and represents the drama for so many citizens who live in certain parts of the country. I am voting in favour of our Group, because we believe that the measure is also, and above all, an act of common sense and social justice. Our political movement - particularly the bell towering parliamentarians - is strongly focusing on a phenomenon that exists, is real and deserves definitive answers from the Government and Parliament. Citizens deserve this for a fundamental reason: our Constitution establishes it. Given the principle of equality, Italian citizens are all equal and have the same rights and duties. In the case of a large part of the citizens of Campania, this has not been the case and we will continue to denounce it forcefully, because we believe it is a sacred right of our fellow citizens. I believe it is an act of common sense and I have to rule by law that artifacts dangerous to public safety or those in the availability of organized crime should be demolished before those created by the state of necessity by deprived households. It is an act of social justice. It is in bad faith who, discussing the provision, hastens to say that it is a disguised pardon. The bill under consideration is not a pardon and serves exclusively to protect homes inhabited by poorer households. On the other hand, the measure stipulates that the small availability is used to break down the property of speculation, the eco-monsters and the building skeletons that disfigure our landscape. It is undeniable that the sentences must be executed and there can be no loophole that holds. The problem becomes serious when the demolitions take place with the dropper, as precisely happens in our Region, in Campania. You want for organizational difficulties, either because of lack of financial resources, the demolitions in our Region - and I believe in most of Italy - have counted on the fingers of a hand, have happened as a leopard spot and continue to happen as a leopard spot. It is therefore obvious that something is not working. I appeal in particular to those who are local administrators, to those who daily have the responsibility to lead their own community, their own country, their own town hall: how do these gentlemen - and we should explain it to them - explain to those who are deprived of their home, even if in execution of a sentence of condemnation passed in court, that the turn of the neighbor, who may have carried out an abuse of larger dimensions and in an age even further in time, has not arrived and is not known if it will ever come? The purpose of the bill is to put order to the executions of the demolition measures that - according to the data not of Forza Italia, but of Legambiente - are thousands in the single in the Campania Region and concern eco-monsters, dangerous buildings, reinforced concrete skeletons, abusive property belonging to organized crime, buildings built on the beaches and even last, homes of necessity inhabited by people without any other possibility of accommodation. This morning I listened carefully to the intervention of Senator D'Anna who spoke of the thousands and thousands of cubic meters of material resulting from possible hypothetical demolitions. How do you do that? Where are they staying? Well, there has been a study made by the daily newspaper Campania "Il Mattino" according to which, paradoxically, the amount of construction to be demolished, according to the judgments passed in court, in the Campania Region, in the Province of Naples and Naples, would amount to the equivalent of a city like Padua. Some colleagues, on the other hand, smile but it is the truth: we are faced with a real emergency, at least as far as parts of our country are concerned. It is pleased, however, that over time many Members of Parliament have understood that, overcome the initial scepticism, they have had no difficulty in sharing with us this battle of justice and civilization that - I like to remember it and I said it before - stems from the political commitment of the Parliamentarians of Campania and belonging to the Group of the PdL Campania, established in 2015. Why was this battle born in Campania and not in another Region of Italy and is not felt the same sensitivity in other parts of the country? The reason is very simple: a battle of this kind could not be born in Emilia-Romagna, could not be born in Tuscany, because in those Regions the laws enacted by the central State have been applied, and certain and concrete answers have been given to the laws, which did not happen in Campania. In Campania the condons of 1985 and 1994 have been wrecked in the worst of all bureaucratic marshes, those of the interpretation of the norms, of the appeals, of the legal disputes, of the denunciations, of the ideological terrorism of the mayors and of the officials daily intimidated. So much, so much work for the bureaucrats, the magistrates, the lawyers and so many lawyers who defended the poor people. Think that in Naples - it is not demagogy, but it is a certain fact - after thirty years after the approval of the first pardon, there are still practices of building pardon and there are several hundred: one could discuss those practices of thirty years ago. Let me say that the most paradoxical thing is what happened with a state law, the one passed in 2003, the famous third building pardon. The right to sanatoria has been granted to all citizens of Italy, except to the bell towers. Senator Palma, Senator D'Anna, Senator Falanga and other colleagues who preceded me recalled this. This is how it is: it has been denied to the people of Campania, where the housing emergency is a real social scourge, a right granted to others. Why all this? We must thank the then governor of the Campania Region who, narrow in the grip of the veteran-environmentalists, did not hesitate to block everything with a regional law, then declared by the Constitutional Court illegitimate. However, it did so late because in the meantime the deadlines had expired and the citizens of Campania had not had time to submit a claim for sanatoria. Of course it angers me - I must remind myself and this House - that this could be remedied here in the Senate, but there was no possibility, because that rule was rejected and did not pass for a vote. I conclude by saying that the Forza Italia Group voted in favour of this measure, saying that it is an act of common sense and social justice. I thank all those who, starting with Senator Falanga, have contributed to the achievement of this result, which I hope, with tonight's vote, can calm hundreds of people who live in a state of psychological awe for a drama they have in their home. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u120	SAGGESE (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are about to vote on tonight has a complex and important subject matter. We have discussed this for a long time: it is the matter of the demolition of abusive artifacts, of the competences of the various organs of the State in the repression of the phenomenon, of the instruments and of the modalities through which to render effective the repressive interventions. The phenomenon of building abuse expresses the historical and social contradictions characterizing the development of Italian cities and the urbanization of large agricultural areas in the post-war period, especially, but not only, in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. From the historical point of view it is evident the violent contrast that characterized the combination of city and country, typical of a country with a plan of late industrial development and violently concentrated in a short time. At the same time, consideration must be given to the weight that the great land income has exerted on the development of the country, placing the same, today, in the face of serious problems concerning the protection of the landscape, the protection of historical and architectural assets and the environmental integrity of many rural contexts. On the social level, it seems indisputable that many families have won the right to housing, but very often those families have been excluded from the city's housing offer. Of course, this cannot justify any kind of abuse, not even what is called necessity. The great exploitation of the unplanned territory, the precariousness of urbanizations and primary and secondary services, public works and infrastructure, have been and continue to be among the most significant consequences of the first building abuse, the one operated precisely by necessity, which has radically and profoundly changed the appearance of urban suburbs, distorted portions of historical centers and given life often and widely to spontaneous industrial fabrics and manufacturing, which have always had to reckon, in contrast, with the too high cost of legal soils. Over time, however, the phenomenon of abusing has partially changed connotations, turning from abuse of necessity into speculative abuse, losing those original characteristics of a phenomenon developed by poverty and backwardness of the social context. The speculative abuse since the 1990s has fueled a disproportionate building cycle, which defines it as grotesque and which, to date, represents a real piece of the real economy, of the so-called GDP, which is often accompanied by the scourge of tax evasion, black labour, environmental damage and crime. The answers that over time have been given to building abusiveness reflect all these contradictions. The laws on the pardon have been cited with exact cycles of nine years from each other, more or less like the intervals of the abusive building cycle of those years (in 1985, 1994 and 2003); they bear, in fact, the distinctive and indelible signs of this historical path, reflect the contradictions and motivate, in part explaining, the difficulties of many administrations in closing this dramatic page, healing what falls within the limits of law or repressing, breaking down and restoring the state of the original places. The measure that we are about to vote intervenes in this specific segment of the procedure that follows an abuse from its birth, then double its iter in the procedure of pardon or in the demolition of the manufactured outside the perimeter of the law and not covered by a sanatoria. The measure was born of a real need, that of making the action of the public administration more fluid and tidy, both in criminal and administrative matters, as prescribed by the order in the matter of demolitions. This is a requirement which, in turn, has taken on the basis of specific, controversial situations, which have been laboriously addressed over the years between the succession of appeals, national laws, regional laws and various conflicts between different levels of government. The draft law under consideration has achieved a balance that is certainly not easy to achieve. In fact, many different interests are at stake. On the one hand, there is the need to implement the most effective system to regulate and rationalise the procedures underlying the demolition of abusive artifacts; this commitment, which the State, in its various articulations, unfortunately does not always succeed in complying with for lack of resources, for an excessive contradiction of the legislation - that is also true - or for the scarcity of men and means available to those who should follow the orders of the judge. We are behind in the difficult task of restoring the status of places in all those cases where a building abuse has occurred. On the other hand - and this is the other need to be reconciled - there is a pressing need to unblock this state of affairs, this stalemate, instead going to hit the situations of abuse more serious, more dramatic and more bold, those more dangerous to the surrounding environment and that highlight a greater and more significant degree of social alarm than others. It is clear that the state's response, as it cannot be identical in every context, for those shortcomings and deficiencies I have just mentioned, can only be commensurate with the type of abuse that is being carried out. I'm just going to give you an example. A residential complex built just a few steps from the sea or in landscape areas protected by constraints, with speculative purposes, is certainly an abuse worthy of a repressive attitude stronger than that perpetrated by the family that on the outskirts, albeit abusively and illegally (because this remains), realizes a veranda to obtain a washroom of service. It is an abuse in both cases and as such it must be sanctioned in both cases: no pardon, not even masked, as well as one wants to make one believe in this House. This measure seeks exclusively to foresee certain mechanisms that aim at a single objective: to prevent the repression and the fight against small abuses, which remain alive, from becoming the greatest alibi and the greatest obstacle to the persecution of the great speculative abuses, or in any case the most illegal ones. And that is why this work has been long and articulated, and that is why there have been changes and improvements. The positive contributions made in the hearings have allowed significant changes to be introduced with one sole objective: to combat abuse more effectively and to provide the work of judicial offices and local authorities with more effective and effective instruments. With this bill - I repeat - we do not intend to discuss disguised condons or, worse, sanatories disguised as procedural and legal quirks. The ratio is quite different and goes in another direction: it is to streamline a system; while we are carrying out a draft overall review of the procedures underlying the destructions and we find resources really able to lighten the load of both prosecutors and local authorities. In order to avoid going in the opposite direction to what we have set ourselves, instilling even more the jungle legislation on building abuse, a complex, complex and profound work has been carried out made of hearings, research and listening, which has allowed today to have a more complete and richer act, in which come together also and above all the suggestions of the many practitioners of justice who in many judicial offices, those who really work in contact with these realities, already apply. These criteria are not preceptive. The text on which we are called today to express our vote maintains and strengthens the regime of intervention aimed at the repression of the phenomenon of building abuse through criminal and administrative action; it simplifies the criteria for the execution of multiple demolition orders, although without identifying hierarchies, offering instead a clear address to the work of the public officers; it identifies - I would like briefly to recall - three cases able to rationalise the matter: first, the important environmental impact or the construction on state property areas or in areas subject to constraint of all kinds; secondly, the artifacts that constitute danger to the safety of the people; thirdly, the artifacts that are in the availability of subjects condemned for association with mafia delinquere. It is clear, therefore, that the above-mentioned cases give rise to a decisive contrast to speculative abuse and its environmental repercussions, legality and the fight against crime. The text strengthens and defines to the best the powers and prerogatives of the prefects, finally dictating certain times to comply with the requirements that will come from this legislation. With this measure, therefore, we take a step forward which must of course be accompanied by a political cohesiveness of the institutions, starting with the regions that in many cases have not yet defined the drafting of the landscape plans, creating a serious failure. A measure that regulates more in detail the instruments and norms of contrast to a plague that - alas - finds strong roots in the history of this country and that in order to be eradicated needs clarity, transparency and effectiveness, in order to protect the extraordinary and unique natural heritage and civilization that Italy has and still survives, despite the too many wounds inflicted by a distorted development. For these reasons, I declare the Democratic Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD and FI-PdL XVII groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u123	TONINI (PD). Mr President, a careful examination of the text has shown an inconsistency between the wording of paragraph 1 of Article 3, as amended by amendment 3,500, and paragraph 4 of Article 3, which is the paragraph containing the financial cover. Now it is clear that, since they are appropriations, paragraph 4, which is the cover paragraph, prevails over paragraph 1 and therefore there is the need for a coordination of the text at this stage of our debate, so as to make paragraph 1 consistent with paragraph 4. In essence, I propose the following coordination rule: "In Article 3, paragraph 1, as amended following the approval of amendment 3,500, delete the words: "to 5 million euro for the year 2017 and "to replace the words: "from 2018" with the following: "from 2017".
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u124	I would warn the House that the rapporteur has tabled the C1 coordination proposal which is exactly the same as that read by Senator Tonini at the moment and that it is being distributed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u127	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, from the reading made by President Tonini to me honestly, it does not seem like coordination. We will of course now read the text, but it seems to me that this is not just a coordination, but a change. So, in my opinion, it comes a little out of time, because it had to be tabled earlier, even after an error in the amendment. At this point, I do not think it can be accepted as mere coordination and I submit this to your assessment, Mr President. This is a further change, which took place, inter alia, after all the votes have been taken. I believe that the proposal put forward cannot be accepted as coordination.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u128	The seat is the right one, because it is before proceeding to the final vote and therefore it is absolutely possible. However, I suspend the sitting at 6.50 p.m., to give my colleagues the opportunity to read the text, certainly not ingratiating my football enthusiasts. (The sitting was suspended at 6.30 p.m. and resumed at 6.50 p.m.) Let us resume our work, in particular by calling for the attention of the President of the Tonini Budget Commission. We voted for Amendment 3,500, which was, on the basis of the opinion, a necessary condition and we approved it, noting that after the adoption of this necessary amendment, according to the opinion of the 5th Commission, there has obviously been a conflict between paragraphs in this case which are irreconcilable. I would like to ask the President of the Commission whether, on the basis of his opinion, with the approval of the proposal for coordination (which will be put to the vote by a simple show of hands) the rule as a whole is covered.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u129	Yes, Mr. President. Incongruence is naturally due to a material error in the opinion of the 5th Commission - so we must assume our responsibility - but what matters for the purposes of coverage is the provision of coverage, that is, the one contained in paragraph 4. The problem with this rewording is that paragraph 1 must be made consistent with paragraph 4, precisely for the sake of clarity of coverage.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u132	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I would just like to say that, on the basis of the clarification, we are faced with a material error, as President Tonini has defined, even at this moment of pause in the work of the House. We take note of this situation; it will not change much the state of the bill, which is still destined to end up in the House of Deputies. We take note of this indication of material error.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u135	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we have seen the papers. We take note - for goodness' sake - of the statement, which is all the responsibility, of the President of the Budget Commission, that this is a material mistake, but it is clear to everyone that the pause was absolutely necessary, because from the reading of the text it was clearly understood something different. Of course, we hope that the House, from this point of view, will do more in-depth.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u136	I put to the vote the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteur. It's approved. We shall therefore proceed to the final vote. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u139	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, I am speaking to inform the House that the technical reports which were expected on the measure relating to the Italian sign language have arrived on a day-to-day basis. The 5th Commission is finishing its work, which will hopefully be available to the House tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. I would therefore ask that we postpone the discussion of the measure to the sitting tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u140	Senator Russo, I consider the proposal because you are rapporteur for the measure. Mr Russo (PD). Only in this capacity did I allow myself to intervene. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I know you're not Juventus, but I also know that you're Lazio and I know in this request a certain conflict of interest. However, by not commenting on it, it remains established.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u141	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-825.ana.u142	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 18 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.55.
