ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 11 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,33 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u4	I say that the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and all forms of gender-based violence has elected the Bureau. They are elected: President, Senator Francesca Puglisi; Vice Presidents, Senator Maria Rizzotti and Senator Francesco Palermo; Secretaries, Senator Fabiola Anitori and Senator Paola Pelino.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u5	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2784, already approved by the House of Deputies. He is registered to speak Senator Barozzino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u6	Mr President, I have listened to a bit of debate, indeed a lot of debate, and I have seen that the debate in this House has focused very much on vouchers: a monstrosity, of course. However, I would like to point out that there were three referenda: vouchers, contracts and Article 18. Article 18 that didn't pass through for bureaucratic quirks, but that for us... [[Brusio]] Mr President, it is not possible to speak with this noise.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u7	My colleagues, on the left and right, want to realise that the sitting has begun and that there is a colleague who is intervening? BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Thank you, Mr President. The referendum questions, as I said, were three, because we must always have respect for the signatures collected: 1,100,000 signatures collected, which, in my opinion, deserve the attention of this House. So there are three questions for us. I want to start by making a little familiar with the senators I have heard here and who, from my point of view, have talked out of hand about both the CGIL and the many workers who have deposited their signature (repeat: 1.100,000 signatures). I know this is scary, but this thing is called democracy and it should always be for the attention of this House. Collecting 1,100,000 signatures is not easy; they have been collected and deserve, therefore, great respect both for the great organization that has collected them, the CGIL, and the million and one hundred thousand workers who have signed the collection. Listening that vouchers would be a good tool of work, which, even, some senator defined well paid is really absurd. Let us remember, for the sake of clarity, what vouchers are: the worker takes 7.5 euros clean (clean, say) without being entitled to any guarantee: he has no right to motherhood (since there is often talk in this House about women, sometimes out of proportion), he has no right to unemployment, he has no right to illness. Basically, a worker who works with vouchers has no right to anything. What a good job! It seems that now everyone is afraid that there is a normative hole on vouchers; well, I want to remind everyone that the only thing that has diminished the voucher, the only thing that is canceling permanently, is not black work, as I have heard everyone say here, with concern (of course, a fake concern, a concern not worthy of the workers): the only thing the voucher has canceled is contractual work. Because that's the only thing he erased. And, in fact, even if it is now called in another way, for example flexibility, because you seek all ways not to tell the truth about what has become today, work is a new slavery. See that vouchers are just the tip of the iceberg of what has happened in these years and we have been saying it for four years because we haven't stopped at vouchers (then I'll also talk about procurement and I'll go back to article 18): after the vouchers there have been food vouchers and after the meal vouchers there has been practically free work, in an escalation that - it's useless that you pretend to deny it - have made the job such, that to call it work you really have to engage with the imagination: you have actually enslaved our workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u8	[[Brusio]] Mr President, I find it very difficult to speak with this buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u9	You are right, Senator Barozzino, but more than repeatedly calling Members of this House to the respect of those who are intervening, I cannot do so. Anyone who wants to chat can go out.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u10	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). I am not surprised, because when it comes to workers, everyone is washing their mouths, but the respect of workers, of all kinds of workers, in this House has never had it. Mr Caleo (PD). What are you talking about? BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). I mean, we were talking about vouchers. Some time ago someone who reads these things and is really interested in the work did a complete analysis: the vouchers were now practically used by everyone. There was no longer any distinction between workers, waiters and doctors. He'd become one by now. I am surprised that we have not yet commented on a fact that has emerged in the chronicles, that is the case of those surgeons who were to operate and who had been hired with vouchers. I am very surprised that this has not yet emerged in the debate. Let us return to procurement, because in my opinion, too, little has been said here. I invite you to go to a place of work and I address, in particular, those senators to those senators who sit both in the Commission and in the Committee of Inquiry into occupational diseases and accidents at work, because one cannot think that action is taken in a Commission in a different way and in another Commission. Well, on the issue of procurement, we see an escalation every day, dear President. When we work with contracts and subcontracting, the worker no longer even knows who his employer is, if we still want to call him an employer, and does not even know who is responsible, if anything happens, for the safety (and not only for the safety) of workers. We should be very careful about these kinds of problems, because, as I said, work has become something that has nothing to do with work (sorry the word game). Let me also stress, as I do in all my speeches and as the latest available data show, that this reality is paradoxical, because it does not even help employment. If at least all this could be justified by an increase in employment, it would be something to be able to tell, but not even this can be told. And you know why you can't tell? Because it has never happened in history, that a worker who has no right can refuse to accept any condition imposed on him by his employer or master. I repeat: the employer is turning into a master. If you have to do more hours, the worker will do them without being able to refuse them and will accept any conditions, even at the wage level. We have discovered in these days, in fact, that in Italy large companies, practically colossal, pay the workers 300 euros a month: this does not happen in the third world, but in northern Italy, in Emilia-Romagna. So, what are we talking about? We've been saying this for four years. At first we told her almost in solitude, while now I see that more than someone has at least put the world of work at the center of their interest and I am pleased, because, as I always say, better late than ever. Welcome, because the world of work (not the labour market) really needs it. Language too - and I will repeat it to boredom - is very important, because if I were to talk about the political market today, everyone would rightly feel offended. Why, on the other hand, when we talk about workers and work, do we have to simplify and with the workers we are allowed to do anything? No wonder some people are terrified of democracy. Here I would have expected to hear that 1,100,000 people signed to be able to vote, which would be the best of democracy; instead someone almost wants to joke about it. I repeat, I am not surprised by this attitude, because in the world of work we can no longer vote for years and there is no freedom of vote, even if many people here are talking about democracy and freedom of vote. If democracy and freedom of vote are to exist, there must be from work. I will be a very modest person, but I have been taught that when democracy is lacking in places of work, it is missing throughout the country. Everything else is talk. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and Art.1-MDP Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again in the presence of a majority that shows that it is not able to manage the country and that it is in difficulty with direct contact with the citizens. The various measures of the Renzi Government, such as the alleged cancellation of the Provinces which, in fact, has only eliminated the popular consultation, or as an attempt to rewrite part of the Constitutional Charter, then resulted in a thunderous rejection. And now the Government Gentiloni Silveri, in the footsteps of the predecessor, continues the work inaugurating a new form of decree-law: that repeals referendum. In short, first you do and then you undo what has been done, totally canceling the effects of the maneuvers, as well as, in the game of Monopoly, when you have to go back to the first box without going through the "Via". This measure, in the wake of the previous ones, was pursued only to avoid a further referendum test that could also have affected the appointment of the new/old secretary of the PD. The Commission, therefore, has preferred to sacrifice the good of citizens and businesses in order to promote party reasoning in an attempt to slow down the bleeding of consensus which, between divisions and internal divisions, has long persisted. However, it is undeniable that a new discipline on vouchers was needed, especially in the light of the latest data, showing a distorted use of tickets, from 500,000 in 2008 to 134 million in 2016. I remind the bystanders that this instrument, introduced by the second Berlusconi Government thanks to the far-sightedness of the late Marco Biagi, over the years has proved useful to the emergence of black work. However, because of the new measures introduced by this majority with the jobs act it has altered its nature, creating those distortions that have fostered abuse and have doped the labour market, smoking billions of incentives. There was no doubt that action had to be taken by redefining the legislation with punctual stakes, but it should not have been repealed. Precisely in this direction, Forza Italia has moved, presenting concrete proposals for modification with which the maximum ceiling of the annual compensation was lowered and it was possible to use the tickets only for accessory work performance. However, haste has imposed as slogans: repealing, repealing, repealing. But what were the consequences? The usual costs are citizens and businesses. In fact, citizens will no longer have the opportunity to work, albeit temporarily, because the stagnant economic situation of the country is in fact not able to generate new employment. In view of the regulatory vacuum caused by this decree-law, companies will find it difficult to use vouchers purchased by 17 March and will not be able to grow thanks to the flexibility necessary to specific sectors typically characterized by seasonal activity such as tourism. It is therefore a further blow to this sector that, just at the gates of the summer season, will be deprived of a device originally designed also to encourage that industry of reception that, thanks to the beauty and uniqueness of our cities of art, our coasts and our mountain areas, could have brought wealth to the country. Unfortunately, it is not only our sentiment, but it is what the productive world of tourism thinks. The same president of Confcommercio, Carlo Sangalli, on the occasion of the opening of the forum of Cernobbio, held last 31 March, said: The abolition of vouchers is a mistake, because they are the most suitable tool to cover occasional and occasional benefits even in companies with employees; we trust that the Government will intervene to remedy it. Alas, dear President Sangalli, unfortunately, the hopes in which he trusted are rendered vain today by the decree-law under discussion in this House: a mess not wanted by the social partners that, given the confusion generated by the legislation, will be able to produce an endless series of appeals between authorities, workers and companies. The amendments to Article 2, which provide for the reinstatement of joint liability between the contractor and the contractor in respect of remuneration, contributions and social security, are also supported. It is a reckless choice, which cancels a rule resulting from a delicate legislative balance that has protected the rights of the parties in the four years in which it was applied. To this power left no matter what you do, only that you do something hastily to throw smoke in the eyes of the Italians and cover your mistakes. However, as Titus Livius said, "to those who work calmly, everything is clear and secure; the haste is reckless and blind." And at Palazzo Chigi, the rush was really great. In conclusion, Mr President, it is not acceptable that the Commission of a country which has the advantage of being among the first seven legal world economies instinctively and in the absence of a long-term organic plan, especially in such a sensitive matter. In fact, we do not believe that a football match can solve the problems of the world of work. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u13	She's enlisted to speak Senator Spilabotte. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u14	Mr President, the measure before the Assembly today repeals Articles 48, 49 and 50 of Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2015, thus abolishing the discipline of ancillary work and also providing for the use of vouchers that were requested on the date of entry into force of the law and can still be used until 31 December 2017. There is also provision for an amendment to the provisions relating to joint liability in contracts. Article 2 removes the possibility of derogating from the principle of joint liability, with the aim of further enhancing the effectiveness of safeguards in favour of workers, in line with the recent rules on public contracts. It was certainly necessary to make some clarity, noting that the vouchers had become a perverse tool, with rules with meshes too wide and little protection. This concludes a story that saw the distorted use of a tool born to combat black work and facilitate the ancillary and occasional work of young people and pensioners. The rapporteur and all the previous speakers have already spoken a great deal about the issues. The decree-law that will be launched today will sanction the definitive abolition of vouchers. From here, however, we must immediately start a legislative path that redefines the tools to govern the accessory and occasional work, the one related to seasonal activities, so important for our tourism, the one that families need, in a framework of instrumentation and simplification legislation that protects the rights of workers in the first place. In particular, intermittent and call work will have to be regulated, giving a fundamental role to national sector, territorial and even company bargaining. I would like to make one thing clear: we did not pursue the union, even if it should be said that the referendum strongly drew the attention of politics. The Democratic Party has no fear of confrontation in electoral competitions, as well as in referendums. [[Ironic applause from Senators Bottici and Bulgarelli.]] We have only the task of working; we want to solve a problem that we have identified as a priority and that we want to tackle with specific rules. We also calm down those who in past weeks have launched several alarms. Babysitting vouchers are confirmed; they are the tool to give, through the INPS, the contribution on the nest to families, a job opportunity that cannot be frustrated. In no way do we want to feed the pockets of irregular work, which we oppose at every level. Never before have so many measures been taken in this parliamentary term, which have been designed to combat illegal labour pockets and have wanted to put labour and development policies at the forefront. We are talking about the contribution of the 80 euros, with the reduction of IRAP, and above all the job act measures, whose data confirm its effectiveness. Support policies have been put in place that today see 700,000 people employed with an indefinite contract and therefore with a non-secure job. I would also like to mention other tools: jobs act for self-employed people, for those who are not registered with professional orders, so-called smart working. We're tutoring something like 800,000 workers who didn't have any protection. We then secured other safeguards, such as DIS-COLL, unemployment for Co.co.co workers. and Co.co.pro. We have also put in place rules that have opposed a truly abominable thing, the so-called white resignations, which many women were forced to sign when they discovered they had to become mothers. I have to say that we have approved a lot of measures to ensure that the instruments do not risk being abused: we have cut IRAP completely in the agriculture sector; we have cut IRAP with regard to seasonal recruitment, so as to bring out black work thus favouring regularity, especially in a sector - that of tourism - which affects hundreds of thousands of workers, who today can have unemployment and, indeed, we have brought from three to four months the coverage of the NASPI also for seasonal workers. Going back to the vouchers, the moment when the instrument finally disappeared was in 2012, when the sectors of industry, construction and transport entered fully into the possibility of their use. Well, in 2016, 50 percent of the vouchers sold (about 73 million) covered these very sectors. I want to add - it must be said, because it is true - that there are 5,000 companies that, overall, use half of the vouchers: we are talking mainly about structured enterprises, not small family businesses; we are not talking about the company where there are one or two employees. And we are also talking about the needs of families. We have provided for an appropriate instrument, especially to safeguard families, because we want this instrument to be within the limits and in its original spirit. There are those who have used it because they really could not do otherwise and those who have abused it, and we must ensure that those who have abused it can no longer treat it. We must give a prompt response to families who have used vouchers but who have not abused them, who need assistance, family welfare, kindergartens, baby sitters, caregivers and small jobs, as is the case in France. We need to evaluate and verify; above all, we want this issue to distinguish and favour individual work. I believe that an instrument should be put in place to give more guarantees and protection to workers, which distinguishes and favours seasonal workers from on-call workers, intermittent and occasional workers. On this point it is appropriate that there should be an appropriate confrontation with the social forces, because from here we must start, but we must also have some times that are in line with the need that we have for this instrument, starting with families, to be put on the field in a very short time. This is the task that we as a Democratic Party and as a Government Party assume. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u15	Greeting on behalf of the Assembly of students and teachers of the Institute including "Alto Casentino" in Pratovecchio Stia, in the province of Arezzo, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u16	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u17	Mr President, in the initial report, I had covered the regulatory developments in accessory work and its form of payment, vouchers, because I believe it is a duty of the rapporteur to create a common ground between majority and opposition in order to develop a substantive debate on the rules under consideration. Here, on the other hand, once again, we have heard political controversy confused with regulatory objectivity and its effects. Many opposition interventions have gone in this direction. It must be reiterated that Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2015, implementing the jobs act, has not widened the areas or subjects: this was already foreseen in previous measures. If anything, the corrective of the jobs act, as it was remembered before, with traceability, the communication of beginning work within sixty minutes, has intervened strongly to counter the greater elusive practice of the voucher: to show the good work that part of the entrepreneur or employer only after a bad accident of a worker or worker. Mr President, I would like to close my reply with a wish and an appeal. The hope is that the public debate will adhere to reality, as Senator Angioni said. As the President-in-Office of the Council said, Italy cannot afford to have an ideological view of accessory work. There has been a call for a referendum, which has collected more than a million signatures from citizens and citizens; therefore, in the experience of a considerable part of the population there is the issue of abuse, as a reality or as a perception. If through a legal instrument - the voucher - it happened that a waiter or a clerk worked for a whole day in front of just one good work hours, the government and we parliamentarians have the need and urgency to intervene. The paradox that has occurred, in fact, is that legislation taken to bring out undeclared work may have become the tip of an iceberg that covers undeclared work; so today we repeal this legislation. Finally, the appeal to all of us concerns the time when we will face Pars Construens. In the document of economy and finance, which we will discuss here at a few hours, the government undertakes to define a new regulation of the ancillary work within the next few months. I would therefore appeal for the debate between us, certainly together with the representative organisations, starting with the union that promoted the referendum, to take place in a realistic, non-ideological, even less, way of confrontation tout court. In fact, when we legislate at work we touch the lives of people, families and companies. In this sense, Senator Pegorer's appeal is very beautiful. The reality is that there is a discontinuous demand for work, as Senator Panizza well described, from families, business sectors and employers; and employers - from young people who study, to women, who are highly employed in ancillary work, to pensioners, to unemployed recipients of income support, to those who already have a job - may need to lend their work for non-continuous periods. We should then think about these two requirements, perhaps going back to the initial ratio of legislation; but, given the experience we have had so far, we should perhaps draw up legislation that distinguishes between domestic work and intermittent work. In the report I highlighted the constraint on intermittent work, which resulted in a transfer to accessory work and vouchers. We should probably also make a distinction, as in the French experience, between the dimensional limits of companies, small and large. There is a theme, which Senator Berger has reported very well, which concerns simplification: the accessory work must be simple and easily accessible for families and especially for very small businesses. I shall conclude, Mr President. In my report, concerns about Article 2 - as recommendations to the Government - have also been noted, which will then be the subject of certain agendas. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u18	Mr President, my reply will be very brief: three telegrams, or rather, we could say three Whatsapp. First of all, I want to reassure the many members of the opposition forces who have spoken of a government held captive by the union and, in particular, by the CGIL: the government is no one's prisoner; it is at the service of all citizens, but it is no one's servant. Secondly, some members of the opposition spoke of a hasty and harmful choice. Instead, I believe that the government's choice is reasonable and effective. This was said by the President of the Council, Gentiloni Silveri, when he motivated the decision to cancel the voucher tool as it was regulated until today, with the reason to avoid an ideological confrontation on a matter of course of importance (but, as everyone has pointed out, not particularly relevant in the more general field of work) and, at the same time, to open the way for a different standardization, which is able to avoid the abuses that have occurred and to be more consistent with the original purposes of the same instrument. The statements made by the President-in-Office of the Council are also followed, as the rapporteur has just said, by the indications of the Economic and Financial Document today at the debate on the two chambers. Finally, I would like to make a final remark, through you, Mr President, to Senator Paglini, who, in the first place, has made a mistake, perhaps justified by the foga, which has already highlighted the rapporteur: the jobs act, in fact, has not widened at all the sectors involved, which had already been enlarged with the so-called Fornero measure. Then there is a second theme that I want to highlight with some punctuality: Senator Paglini said that the government and the majority legislate for personal gain. Since lawmaking for personal gain is a crime, I would like to ask the senator to apologise for using a completely inappropriate expression or to run to the competent offices to report specific crimes. I say this because, at times, perhaps in words it transcends, but if we let it run a language of this kind, there is obviously something serious also in institutional relations and in such an authoritative assembly as that of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u19	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I note that the amendments are intended to refer to the articles of the decree-law to be converted, in the text including the amendments made by the House of Deputies. We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to in Article 1 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u20	Mr President, I am against all the amendments referred to in Article 1 and the related additional amendments. Then I invite the Government to accept the agendas of the day G1,100 and G1,101. As regards the agenda G1.102, I propose the following rewording of the device: "It commits the Government to consider taking initiatives to introduce a new discipline of ancillary work, identifying, where appropriate, alternative forms to vouchers." As for the agenda G1.103, I propose the following rewording of the device: "It commits the Government to consider taking initiatives to regulate services of ancillary nature, identifying in the field of application, also with reference to the various sectors of activity". With regard to the agenda G1.104 I propose the following rewording of the device: "It commits the Government to assess the appropriateness of a regulatory discipline also in the receptive tourism sector, taking into account the specific needs of the sector". Also with regard to the agenda G1.105 I propose a rewording of the device: "It commits the Government to provide ancillary working arrangements also for the agricultural sector, taking into account the specific needs of the sector". I therefore call on the Government to accept the agenda G1.106. As far as the agenda is concerned, I propose the following rewording of the system: I therefore call on the Government to accept the agenda G1.108, and I am against the adoption of agendas G1.109, G1.110 and G1.111. I call on the Government to accept the agenda G1.112 and I am against the adoption of the agenda G1.113. With regard to the agenda G1.114, I propose the following rewording of the device: It commits the Government to ensure adequate forms of remuneration of ancillary work services and to assess the forecast of limits to their usability. Finally, I am opposed to the adoption of the G1.115 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u21	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u22	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment No 1.1, which is identical to Amendments Nos 1,100 and 1,101. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Zizza, identical to amendments 1,100, tabled by Senator Divina and other Senators, and 1,101, tabled by Senator Munerato and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators, until the following words are taken. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1.3 to 1.7 are therefore not included. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,102, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1,103, tabled by Senator Munerato and other senators, until the words: "without prejudice to the possibility." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,104 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 1,105, tabled by Senator Munerato and other senators, until the words "does not apply" do not apply. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,106 to 1,109 are therefore excluded. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.33, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.110, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators, up to the words: "ancillary work". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 1,111 are therefore excluded. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,112, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,113, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1,114, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators, until the words: "without prejudice to the possibility." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,115 to 1,123 are therefore excluded. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of amendment 1.34, tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators, until the words: (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendments 1,124 to 1,130 are therefore excluded. Senator Serafini, your agenda was received by the government. Are you still asking for the vote? Serafini (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,100, tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.101, tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would ask the signatories whether they accept the rewording of the agenda presented by the Lega Nord Group. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Yes, Mr President, and we insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.102 (text 2) presented by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.103 (text 2) presented by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.104 (text 2) tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.105 (text 2), presented by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.106, tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.107 (text 2), presented by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.108, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.109, tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.110, presented by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.111, presented by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.112, tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.113, presented by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.114 (text 2), presented by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.115, tabled by Senator Orellana and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from Senators Pegorer and Malan.]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.2 tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.3 tabled by Senator Serafini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.4 tabled by Senator Zizza. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.100, tabled by Senator Munerato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are described, on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u23	Mr President, I am against all the amendments. As regards agendas, the opinion was opposed to agendas G2,400 and G2,101. As regards the agenda G2.102, I propose the following rewording of the initial part of the device: "It commits the Government to assess, taking into account the current rules, the need to intervene by means of legislation in order to clarify, if necessary, that in the case of (...)"; the rest of the agenda remains unchanged. I then voted against the agenda for G2,103 and G2,105, while the opinion was in favour of the agenda for G2,104.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u24	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u25	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.1, which is identical to Amendments 2.2, 2100 and 2.101. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Zizza, identical to amendments 2.2, tabled by Senator Serafini and other Senators, 2.100, tabled by Senator Divina and other Senators, and 2.101, tabled by Senator Munerato and other Senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.102, tabled by Senators Auricchio and Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.103, tabled by Senators Auricchio and Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.104, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.105, tabled by Senator Divina and other senators, identical to amendment 2.106, tabled by Senator Munerato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.107, tabled by Senators Auricchio and Barani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.1, tabled by Senator Catalfo and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2,400, presented by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.101, presented by Senator Puglia and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). There is a request for reformulation on agenda G2.102. Are you welcome, Senator Mandelli? MANDELLI (FI-PdL XVII). Yes, Mr President, and I insist on the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.102 (text 2), tabled by Senator Mandelli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.103, presented by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.104, presented by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.105, presented by Senator Divina and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I say this with respect to the Minister for relations with Parliament, but sometimes they are better than trust. [[Laughter. Applause from the LN-Aut and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u28	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, in a normal country that needs to attract investment, resources, to have greater credibility abroad, to de-burocratize, in short, to modernize, what is done? You don't waste time. In a normal country, a normal government does not come to the Chamber proposing a decree-law suppressive having already made a majority agreement to have a decree-law replacement; a normal government, in a normal country, comes to the Chamber and takes the text of the Commission work, which has worked for a long time on the reform of the abuse of vouchers, and brings to the country, in the immediacy, a concrete solution to the abuse of the use of a contractual formula that was born for the purely occasional work. In a normal country, the government, supported by a majority, does not come to say that it is someone else's fault when all the legislative measures that led to the 134 million separate vouchers come from its legislation. It is a legislation that does not even come from previous legislation but from this, when Letta had removed, precisely, the definition of "merely occasional" widening to all sectors and when Renzi, if you remember, had determined the increase of the possibility of using vouchers from 5,000 to 7,000 euros through that strange thing that is called jobs act. When, from those benches, with legislative decree no. 81 of 2015 the jersey of the possibilities of use of vouchers has expanded, it has been there that the vulnus has been produced that has involved the passage from the 500,000 vouchers of 2008 to 136 million last year. That is the point, Mr President. The point is that Parliament had established, in the relevant Commissions (the Commission's work and also other committees in which it debated), and we have heard this even today in the amending phase, that some sectors still need this contractual instrument. We understand, Mr President, that large retailers can use other forms of contract, however, there are no other suitable forms in the hotel tourism sector (and here, as a person working in the tourism sector, I ask colleagues, when they talk about tourism, to inform themselves, because I have heard of the castroneries that the destination is enough): there are no other tools for families, there are no tools for local authorities, there are no, except through a fixed-term assumption that it has crazy costs. How does a family hire a fixed-term colf (or indeterminate, even) if they have to use it three or four hours a week? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] How does a pizza maker? We are told that the pizza maker can use the job on call, the intermittent work or, however, the work on call. But doing this means making a subordinate contract, having a fixed cost hoof even if you don't have to use it, and then you can call it when you need it. But if he had work every day, and already planned, the pizza maker would make an indefinite contract and wouldn't have any problems. Here you want to help, with the modified vouchers, that part of healthy business, that part of healthy and honest productive sectors that use this tool to give satisfaction to themselves and to give satisfaction to all those who, in certain cases, have the need to work and to have rights, because they are entitled to INAIL services and also to contribution. Isn't that enough? Well, there was diversification in the text that we had produced. There was a doubling of the pay to the worker for business activities and businesses and a doubling of the payment of contributions, because 10 euros were not enough. Well, then let's take them to 20 or 30 euros and increase the contribution, but let's not throw it all away, let's not throw the baby away with dirty water, as they say. The dirty water, which you want to throw away, is that of yet another figure compared to the outcome of the referendum, because if it is true - as it is true - that more than a million citizens have subscribed to this question, it is equally true that the government could have put us differently and dealt with the issue in an electoral debate through that proposal that already seems to be in the air, as evidenced by journalistic news. If what we read about is the German mini-job, we believe that replacing the mini-job with vouchers will mean creating even more precarious work. Because the mirage of the 400 euros per month without rights, which is that of the mini-job to the German, but without all the welfare that Germany gives to the families, will create an endless series of new poverty and new situations of precariousness, that will be worse than those produced by the use of the voucher in your vision and even worse than your vouchers in your vision [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In Germany, Mr President, there are subsidies for babysitting, there are subsidies for welfare, for rents, for the welfare state. Here, however, we are a little low on subsidies, so much so that in Italy there are 4.5 million people who do not arrive in the second week of the month. More than a million poor families and you, in the poverty decree that you have tirefully approved a few weeks ago after years of lying in the Commissions, do not put the money necessary to address this issue of poverty in the country. We are concerned, Mr President, about all the 500,000 people who used the vouchers. Was that too much? Was that a lot? Were they exploited? Probably. This instrument had to be regulated; it had to be regulated, it had not to be deleted. Among other things, it has also been deleted with a barbaric method and a troglodytic method, because an extension for all those who purchased vouchers on the date of March 17 must still be regulated, and it must be regulated with a press release from the Ministry. We believe that only in the Middle Ages (but not even in the Middle Ages) could we have the presumption, the arrogance and the lack of shame to say this to Parliament, with a Minister coming to the Chamber for the conduct of a question time and saying that a press release of his has legal value. If the government thinks that this House is to be transformed from the Legislative Chamber to the Confirmation Chamber of the Government's choices, we believe that it has the wrong direction. You tried to turn this Senate into an abortion, and you couldn't. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We do not believe that the Government has the possibility to regulate by means of press releases; there are interpretations, circulars, ministerial decrees, decrees-laws and legislative decrees. There is a world of constitutionally defined bureaucracy that is not used. But what will this lead to? It will mean that all those companies that bought the vouchers until March 17 will find themselves in difficulty in being able to use them. Therefore, there will not be an extension, but, thanks to you, a regulatory vacuum and this vacuum to the maximum can be filled by a legal limbo situation. If I were an honest entrepreneur - and there are some - I would only light the voucher when the INPS inspector arrives: when the inspector arrives, I turn on the voucher, because he can't sanction me because it is repealed. If the sanction is repealed, then, in our opinion, on any sanction applied you can appeal and can be appealed and certainly before the judge of the job the fraudulent entrepreneur will have good game to say that the norm was not there, because the only part of the juice that there is is a press release. So, ladies and gentlemen, what did we say at the time when we also expressed our willingness to cooperate? We proposed that the date, the name and the time it was used should be stated on the voucher, but you wanted to do yet another African - as they say in dialect - and we are now with entrepreneurs in extreme difficulty. Always talking about tourism, the beauty comes at this time, because the season begins: so it will happen that honest entrepreneurs, who wanted to use vouchers honestly, will face yet another casino and will not be able to use staff in an honest way. This will produce, as a result, really so much black. We are still the ones who "sweep" us. I shall conclude by saying that we shall vote against the conversion into law of this decree-law. We are voting against not because we were in favour of the abuse of vouchers, but because in a serious country, a serious government and a serious Parliament do not waste time; time is devoted to giving solutions to businesses, families and workers. Therefore, we had to come to this House by amending Articles 48, 49 and 50 of Legislative Decree No 81 and not by repealing it, leaving companies, workers and families in difficulty. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u31	GATTI (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, I immediately declare the Group's vote in favour of Article 1 - Democratic and progressive movement to the law of converting the decree-law to our examination and I do so in line with what we have said so far, namely that we would have given an indication of vote for the yes to the referendum if it had been held. I would like to start from the elements that are dealt with in the decree-law, in particular from the changes on joint responsibility for procurement that are likely to be little discussed in this House, while I think that this is a fundamental point, because it involves a part of very weak and blackmailable workers, who are employed in particularly difficult situations and in very uncomfortable conditions, of which little is said, because they are "hidden" in the procurement of works and services. It concerns their concrete right to receive remuneration, social security contributions and insurance premiums even if the contract firm for which they work, does not pay them, fails or suddenly disappears. The Decree-Law repeals three points of the legislation. Let's see what remains: the principle remains for contracts that the contractor or employer is jointly and severally responsible with the contractor and with any subcontractors, within two years of the termination of the contract for remuneration and remuneration, as well as for social security contributions and insurance premiums for workers, (including workers with coordinated and continuous collaboration) and if the contractor is the public administration, the specific rules on public contracts remain. Mr President, it is a question of guaranteeing a right to contract workers in a simple and reasonable manner, calling on the contractor to bear joint responsibility and preventing the referral to the sub-contracting or subcontracting company from slowing down the process and making it very difficult for workers to obtain what is due. On how to regulate joint responsibility, the debate has been very broad and very hard for a long time. They were very different solutions. As a matter of fact, subcontracting companies are born and disappearing suddenly and this causes enormous difficulties and sometimes it is impossible for workers to recover what is due to them. I would like to remind you, for example, of the debate that has also developed in this House during the examination of Law No 199 of 2016 in relation to contracts in agriculture and throughout the agri-food chain or the situation of great difficulty of construction workers engaged in the necessary reconstruction following the last earthquakes, which have seen our committees engaged with questions and so on. That is why we support the repeals proposed in the Decree-Law and would have voted yes to the referendum. We now proceed to the repeal of the articles of Legislative Decree no. 276 of 2003 relating to occasional accessory work, and I deliberately use the term "occasional accessory" because at the beginning it was so but then, on the street, the word "occasional" was lost. In the beginning, vouchers were a standardized way of payment to pay small jobs and ancillary activities with remuneration subject - this is the fundamental point - to a tax and contribution treatment facilitated. However, it must be said that the voucher is not an employment contract and does not give any guarantee for sickness, unemployment, maternity, leave of various kinds. The voucher is only and exclusively the method of payment of a benefit that should have been exclusively and exclusively occasional and accessory, but in fact it did not remain as it should have remained. The voucher had a nominal value, of which 13 per cent is paid as a pension contribution to the separate management of the INPS, 7 per cent as an insurance contribution to INAIL, 5 per cent as a remuneration for the management service. And it was totally exempt from the IRPEF: that is the point that must be borne in mind. It must be said that the tax and contributory benefits provided in Italy on the ancillary work compensation paid with vouchers are relatively larger than those recognized elsewhere and above all less selective than the recipients. With a series of passages, which have gradually widened the audience and loosened the constraints, we have moved from a particularly limited scope (it was 2003 when they were fixed), aimed mainly at encouraging the employment of disadvantaged people and at the limit of social exclusion in activities related to family care and the third sector, to a system so wide (the last changes are in 2015) that they can include activities that would normally have to fall within the scope of employee work or in the sphere of parasubordinate and self-professional work. This has certainly resulted in the loss of the characteristic of occasionality, but also a multiplicity of use of this type of remuneration, which has finally generated even a use that allowed the accessory work to be additional compared to a primary activity for those who already had a position in the labour market, even rather solid (I think of all the personnel of the parasanitary sector), and that could hardly be included in the whole of the disadvantaged subjects mentioned earlier. This has certainly also created problems of tax avoidance (no IRPEF for all workers paid with vouchers) and exacerbation of competition on the labour market side. This is what has happened in our labour market with the use of vouchers: concrete and significant risks of replacement have been generated in relation to existing contractual arrangements; processes of precariousness have begun especially of young people or too wide versatility of employment has made of the work ancillary and vouchers a formal coverage for activities that, for a large part, continue to take place in the submerged, as the rapporteur rightly said in her report. Compared to the latter risk, the introduction of reporting obligations has not been sufficient to overcome it, thanks to the difficulty of carrying out effective in situ checks due to lack of staff and the absence (except in the agricultural sector where there is the three-day time limit) of the maximum duration between the starting date and the end date of the work. These are data obtained from the researches of Anastasia and others of 2016 and De Angelis and Brown always of 2016. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the very careful and timely work of the Parliamentary Budget Office, which has produced a thematic focus on the subject. At this point I would like to make a reflection that puts in line the positive and negative effects of the use of vouchers as defined by the current legislation. With regard to the positive effects, vouchers may have encouraged the reintegration into the labour market of those who are actually no longer active (pensioners and silent), who are thus able to find jobs that are better suited to their situation. In addition, they may have also allowed the full regularization of marginal occupations such as small student jobs, exceptional seasonal activities - and I stress exceptional - and occasional ones typical of certain sectors (I am thinking of agriculture and tourism). In the negative sense, the possibility can be identified that those already operating in the submerged are regularized only partially, making it impossible to ascertain the next non-regular component of their activity. In addition, there is a risk of precariousizing young people, who end up being employed with vouchers, rather than being framed with forms more appropriate to their human capital, and many times they get caught up in these situations. Another negative point is an effect of substitution between pre-existing employment relationships and work with vouchers and in this regard I report a figure: the share of the paid persons with vouchers by a client with whom there was an employee or unsubordinate employment relationship in the previous three or six months was equal in 2015 respectively to 7.9% and 10%, with particular concentration in tourism, services and trade. The data is from the Ministry of Labour. I refer only to one last point concerning the fact that, in the last period, since the voucher legislation did not provide for any specific constraint, within the limit of the ceilings of the annual compensations (7,000 euros net per worker) could be carried out as ancillary and paid with the vouchers for extraordinary benefits compared to a normal working time or even additional tasks that would have to be part of the employed work (maybe involving the same employer and the same worker). Personally I think that the choice to completely repeal the rules relating to vouchers, in addition to the large number of subscribers for the carrying out of the referendum and the mobilization that has resulted from it, to the referendums present with a concrete risk of exacerbating divisions within our country, derives also from this type of confused interweaving between types of work, from the fact that there were continually new cases of use and in some cases rare or even unusual, but still feasible and legal in the absence of express legal limitations. And that made it very difficult to be able to cut out reasonable rules with confidence of the effects. Finally, I would like to make one final point. With the exception of agriculture where the average annual remuneration was significantly lower than in other sectors, the average compensation for the five years available between 2011 and 2015 is around 500 euros net. Average wages so low make the risk of not exceeding the minimal contribution to the separate management of the INPS if the only source of income is the work paid with vouchers. The minimum contribution is the amount of contributions necessary to earn one year of contribution seniority and, if you remain below, there is only the pro quota. And for the completely contributory system, therefore for our young people, there is no more integration to the minimum. This is a big problem and clarifies one point: if on the one hand vouchers were a very simple means to use, they were above all a way for the clients to lower the cost of work, downloading all the problems on workers in the immediate and prospective on all citizens the need to assist poor pensioners. Vouchers exist not only in Italy, but also in other European countries, with substantial differences. Compared to the Italian situation, however, they resemble, in some way, our first definition of 2003, in the sense that both the types of clients, as well as the achievable activities are very large in Italy and strongly limited in other countries. We are voting in favour of the conversion of this decree-law and we believe that it was useful to do so quickly, not least in order to prevent all the procedures and the production of the materials necessary for the possible implementation of the referendum. We ask the Government to immediately initiate a process of confrontation with the social partners, including the requests from Parliament. I would like to close, however, by calling everyone to a responsibility: call work, the job administered, fixed-term work, seasonal work, the contract for family assistance, part-time work with flexibility clauses are all types present in our system, they are all contractual forms (tutelants for workers) and are not replaceable with occasional paid accessory work with vouchers. We cannot think of repealing today, in order to avoid the referendum, and then, fictitiously, re-introduce identical paid working methods or with the same twists as those that have been repealed. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u32	I inform the Assembly that, at the request of a parliamentary group, for a meeting of the PD Group, after the final vote on the measure under consideration, the sitting will be taken out in advance.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u35	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, we are sorry to see some kind of renunciation by the Government of what has been good done in previous years. The question of vouchers, although complex and distorted in some of its methods of use, was certainly a missed opportunity, because in our opinion, instead of correcting excesses and abuses, has deprived thousands of small and very small companies and families of the possibility of resorting to a means that did not require the compilation of complicated paperwork or the work of the accountant and that as much as possible, if used correctly, met the needs of a non-secondary part of those who still want to work in this country. More generally, companies in all sectors will find themselves in difficulty and will try to orient themselves in total regulatory uncertainty, waiting for a countermeasure sponsored by the Government, perhaps on the thrust of the same trade union acronyms that insisted on the abolition of vouchers. There is a real risk that all of this, in the coming months, will negatively affect the labour market, leading employers, at best, to the expectation and, at worst, forcing them instead to resort to undeclared work. Several trade associations, on all Coldiretti, have not by chance launched the alarm, in the fear of an exponential increase of undeclared work in the agricultural sector, that to which the smallest part of the vouchers is destined, but that it has recorded the increase of annual hours more marked in the third trimester of 2016. This is a fear that can also be extended to other economic sectors, albeit to a different extent, not least the construction and procurement sectors, where vouchers are used to pay different technical profiles. If it is also true that the INPS and INAIL have collected 200 million from vouchers, which represent about 1% of the total amount of labour costs, it seems to us that the government's work has only created another hole in the budgets of social security institutions, without improving the fight against undeclared work. The voucher instrument itself had demonstrated, at least within certain areas, to function, by providing the labour market with a flexibility instrument and bringing out a significant part of the payments in black. The excessive extension of the possibilities of use had resulted in abuse and improper use, literally blowing up the number of vouchers used. Logic and common sense, however, should have suggested correcting anomalies and twists and introducing stricter limits to this instrument, which has nevertheless proved to work, and not to eliminate it. (17.54) (Following Mazzoni). Some corrections, however, were also identified by economists who collaborate with the Government. For example, the limits of EUR 7,000 per worker and EUR 2,000 per contractor could have been narrowed to a single worker; or the period of validity of the vouchers could have been reduced and the maximum time for reimbursement of unused vouchers could have been reduced, at the same time taking computer-based measures to make traceability more effective. Another alternative would have been to ban the use of vouchers in the public sector and in the same company where the lender had another contract, to prevent the employer paying the worker in part with a contract and in part with vouchers to save. Moreover, it could have been prohibited to use it in buildings, an area where abuses have been recorded that deserve the greatest reproach, specifically employers who buy vouchers but then activate them in cases of necessity - read accidents - in order exclusively to benefit from the INAIL coverage; practice already prohibited by the rules on traceability, but obviously still circumventable. The use of vouchers for capital companies and their use in tourism and commercial enterprises could then have been limited, restoring the original areas (family services and agriculture) to avoid the overtaking of the rule that employers integrate contracts - be they part-time or seasonal - with vouchers to save on contributions. Finally, you could have narrowed the audience of potential workers who could be hired with vouchers to students, pensioners or unemployed. On the other hand, under the threat of the repealing referendum, he chose to delete them in full. Therefore, on the difficult and complex road of the reform, the much simpler one of the sponge stroke was preferred. In this way the referendum was immediately avoided, but with the abolition of vouchers a vacuum opened, operational and normative, which is not clear how it will be filled. Nor has Mr Poletti given any definite timetable for a regulatory solution, but he has only expressed the desire of the Commission to assess, together with the social partners, what could be the most appropriate formula for re-introduced a flexible contractual arrangement. In short, with a triple jump carpiato backwards you return to the rites of the First Republic literally throwing in the basket the progresses on the labour market made by the Biagi reform onward. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is not only constitutionally illegitimate but also politically incorrect, because deleting vouchers completely means not creating new regular work, but simply leaving a regulatory vacuum that feeds the submerged. The announced adoption of new and similar measures would be a double mockery of the citizens who had collected signatures for the referendum. Our parliamentary group will therefore vote against this measure. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u38	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, in the general debate, together with my colleague, Mr Panizza, we explained the opposition of our Group to the abolition of an instrument which in recent years has favoured the encounter between supply and demand in the labour market and has been important for families and for those who do occasional jobs, occasional jobs. Today this Parliament is forced to pay pledges for the threat of a referendum that - I am convinced - the promoters would also have lost, but that - as President Gentiloni Silveri has rightly said - would have exposed Italy to another poisonous season of electoral tensions that we cannot afford at this time. That is why we consider today to be a vote for or against referendums and not for or against vouchers. However, we reiterate that the demand for important sectors of our economy, from agriculture to tourism, citizens and organisations, the need for an agile instrument capable of generating occasional employment opportunities and at the same time combating undeclared work and unemployment cannot be overlooked. We therefore strongly hope, Mr Undersecretary, that good work will be replaced by legislation, but with different timetables from those provided for by the DEF, which would be approved by July. It is too late, Mr Undersecretary, on that date: the summer season, that of full activity for agriculture, tourism and related sectors, is at the door and we all have to bear the responsibility we have to bear. It is also important that the new instrument keeps alive the basic principles of vouchers: simplicity of use and reduced cost for those who need and right to support. The solutions are not lacking: I mentioned the French model, the German one, but also the law on intermittent work that, with appropriate modifications, could be fine. Today, in order to open the way to substitute interventions, we must vote for the repeal of vouchers, which also means opposing the referendum. Therefore, knowing that it is the only responsible way to achieve a shared result, I announce the vote of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE in favour of this act. We will be reminding the government of the commitments made with the agendas approved in this House, in order to create a new basis responsibly; a basis that limits misuse and creates the possibility, for those who need it, of using a new model of vouchers or occasional work income. Mr Undersecretary, thank you for accepting our agendas, which have been adopted in this House today. The Government has thus made a commitment to respect the time to intervene in an appropriate and flexible manner, by replacing what we are now repealing. This regulatory uncertainty, in fact, is a vexatory act: we must avoid it at all costs. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Senator Silvestro.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u41	PAGE (AP-CpE). (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the majority and successive governments in this parliamentary term have put the issue of work at the centre, with measures that have been adopted and have had as their first objective the focus of labour and development policies, the decontribution, with the 80 euros, the reduction of IRAP and, above all, the measures of the jobs act, whose data confirm its effectiveness. It is a couple of weeks ago that ISTAT published the February data that the employment rate reached 57.5% and that unemployment fell to 11.5 percent - a 0.3% decrease in a month - and that youth rate fell to 35.2%, compared to 2016, when it was 43%. I would add that we have put in place policies of support and decontribution, which have allowed 700,000 people to have a permanent job today, and therefore a job to all intents and purposes and absolutely not precarious. In this parliamentary term, work is a central issue and we have dealt with it, in particular, by attacking precariousness, but we have also acted on other levels. I would like to recall the importance of another instrument, the jobs act for the self-employed, which is about to become a law, necessary for those who are not enrolled in professional orders, for the so-called smart working and to protect 800,000 workers without protection. We have also provided for safeguards such as DIS-COLL and maternity and sickness benefits. We have approved other measures to provide for instruments that are likely to be abused - as has happened in many cases for vouchers - an alternative. We have completely cut IRAP in the agricultural sector. We have cut IRAP, with regard to seasonal recruitment since 2015, to 70% and reduced the cost of labour to make it more reasonable above all than expectations, given that we are talking, only in the tourism sector, about hundreds of thousands of workers who can resort to unemployment. We even increased the coverage of the NASPI for seasonal workers from three to four months. The decree-law that we are about to convert today is intended to prevent the referendum on vouchers promoted by the CGIL, abolishing the institute of ancillary work, introduced with Articles 48 to 50 of Legislative Decree No. 81 of 2015. Rationally, a transitional regime has been established for vouchers already applied for until 17 March 2017, which can be used until 31 December 2017. In addition, the INPS intervened with a circular of March 30, with which are confirmed vouchers for babysitting, which is the tool to give families the contribution on the nest through the INPS. And I say this because, in these days and in the last few weeks, there have been so many alarms about the fact that there would be no more babysitting and that a job opportunity would have been destroyed, that otherwise there could have been. In addition, the Decree-Law under consideration also provides for an amendment to the provisions concerning joint liability in the field of procurement, eliminating the possibility of derogating from the principle of joint liability, with the aim of further increasing the effectiveness of safeguards in favour of workers, in line with the recent rules on public contracts. After all the polemics between the various political factions in the field, we are led to believe that eliminating vouchers will eliminate occasional work. The occasional work will remain and return to the black, as it was before, unless we intervene - and I hope we do so as quickly as possible - with alternative legislation. The decision to repeal vouchers was strongly contested by the business world, which had identified ancillary work as an instrument capable of increasing labour market flexibility and thereby increasing competitiveness. It is clear that an instrument must be put in place that gives more guarantees and protection to workers, which distinguishes and favours seasonal workers than call workers, intermittent and occasional workers. On this point it is appropriate that there should be an appropriate confrontation with the social forces, because from here we must start, but we must also be sure that a new discipline is put on the field in a very short time. The problem has therefore been raised of extending the scope of existing working institutions, pending, after the Constitutional Court has passed the referendum, following the approval of the decree-law under consideration, to provide for a new and more stringent regulation of occasional work. Moreover, the transitional period for the use of vouchers currently in the possession of businesses will allow Parliament to have the time to introduce new provisions that increase the elasticity of the labour market, but at the same time reduce the abuses that have occurred with the voucher system and maintain protection for workers. Alternativa Popolare has already put in place its proposal titled: Expanding the possibilities of use of intermittent work. Introduction of the institutions of part-time work and occasional work. It's the Senate Act 2788. With the bill signed by Bianconi and Pagano, we have basically regulated the accessory labour market along three lines. The first provides for the extension of the possibilities for the use of intermittent work. In any case, with the exception of the tourism, public establishments and entertainment sectors, the use of intermittent work may take place, for each worker with the same employer, for a total period not exceeding four hundred days of actual work over three calendar years, after which its relationship becomes a full-time and permanent employment relationship. It is important that intermittent call work can be activated in all economic sectors and without age limits, so as to avoid the ghettoisation of certain categories of workers. The terms of the contract require that the worker informs the undertaking of his availability and therefore awaits the employer's call. A waiting allowance is provided for such availability. A second director of our vision of the world of work to be protected provides for a new regulation of occasional work, limited in scope and with greater protection for workers. The third guideline provides for the introduction of a new institution called "Labour Short-Time." Popular Alternative clearly expressed its position and is ready for dialogue, well aware that old ideologies cannot force the country to remain in a limbo or stifle energies that are present in the labour market and that cannot be deployed for the excess of bureaucracy and rigidity entering the market itself. Coming to the decree-law voucher - and I conclude - we will vote in favour, also because in an interview with the President of the Council, we were certain - and we trust the President of the Council - that by 15 May a measure will be put in place for alternative solutions to the voucher that we abolish here today. It is necessary to give answers to those 800,000 workers who have come back from black work thanks to vouchers, but not only to them. We have to give answers to families. Businesses must be given answers. It must be borne in mind that, in a few weeks or months, the summer season begins and, without flexibility, we will have a very serious level of unemployment in the tourism, trade and services sectors. It is therefore necessary to put in place tools, initiatives for all sectors, for all age groups, for mini contracts, which are different from mini-jobs to German, and for bonuses to families. For these reasons I declare the vote in favour of the Popular Alternative. [[Applause from the AP-CpE Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u44	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, this legislation is proof of your inability to represent reality. In fact, the original and I would say just ancillary work discipline as an activity of a purely occasional nature, limited from the subjective point of view to particular categories of lenders and, from the objective point of view, to specific activities, you have changed it premeditatedly, specially, transforming its function as an instrument intended, because of its characteristics, to correspond to marginal and residual needs of the labour market as a substitute for part-time work. The rules you wanted, in transcending the occasional nature of the work requirement to which you were originally called to fulfill the institute of the ancillary type of service, have made it alternative to types regulated by other Jewish institutions and, therefore, not necessary. This has generated, unlike what you have always said to the four winds, a degeneration, which has caused a reduction of constitutionally guaranteed rights. The Constitutional Court, by judgment of 11-27 January 2017, No 28, declared admissible the request for a popular referendum for the repeal of Articles 48 and 49. The popular referendum was organized by decree of the President of the Republic 15 March 2017: it was practically already done and, therefore, you have not even fixed much earlier. The objectives of the referendums are to exclude from the legal system ancillary work and to provide for full joint responsibility between the contractor and the contractor, which cannot be limited by collective bargaining and is extended, in court, also to the execution phase. The provisions contained in the decree-law realize a repealing effect analogous to that which would come from the referendum repeal, with the only difference that article 1, paragraph 2, also previews a transitional discipline on the usability (until 31 December 2017) of the required vouchers before the entry into force of the decree-law (17 March 2017). The date for the referendary consultation was set at 28 May 2017. The deadline for the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration is 16 May 2017. On 29 March 2017, according to a press release, the Central Office at the Cassation decided unanimously to postpone any resolution, waiting for the conversion into law of the aforementioned decree-law. It should be recalled that, pursuant to Article 39 of Law No 352 of 1970, if before the date of the referendum, the law, or the act having force of law - therefore also a decree-law - or the individual provisions to which the referendum refers, have been repealed, the Central Bureau for the referendum declares that the related operations have ceased to run. This is exactly what you are waiting for, and then you are going to pass a pejorative legislation for workers. In the light of the above explained and given that we know well that the decree-law under consideration is a messy patchwork and that it was necessary to act previously, by bringing back the performance of ancillary type in its original ratio, we can say that the Government is not prisoner of the union - it was not we who said it - but is slave to a system that generates poverty among ordinary people; it is slave to an obtuse way of reading reality; it is slave to a thought that crushes and drowns the Italian people. If you want to understand what slave thinking is, listen to what the PD government has written in the memory presented in defense of the standard of vouchers. We read it directly from the Court's ruling. The PD Government has requested that the repealing referendum be declared inadmissible, in particular on the assumption of the need for ancillary labour regulation, as it is of constitutional interest, in order to be the legislation in question marked by the intention to protect the dignity of the worker - this with the voucher - which would undermine the protection stated by the principles of Articles 1, 4, 35 and 36 of the Constitution. You have understood well: for the PD the voucher serves to protect the dignity of the worker and its repeal prejudices these constitutional principles. Translate, please? Yeah, right away. Article 1 of the Constitution contains the following principle: "Italy is a democratic Republic, based on labour." Therefore, for PD Italy is a Democratic Republic based on vouchers. Article 4 of the Constitution contains the principle: The Republic grants all citizens the right to work and promotes the conditions which make this right effective. Therefore, for PD the voucher makes the right to work effective and promotes it. Article 35 of the Constitution contains the principle: "The Republic shall protect work in all its forms and applications." Therefore, the Republic according to the PD protects work with vouchers. And then, dulcis in fundo, Article 36 of the Italian Constitution contains the following principle: The worker is entitled to remuneration proportionate to the quantity and quality of his work and in any case sufficient to ensure that he or she and the family have a free and dignified existence. It would be superfluous to add an observation, but I cannot resist doing it: therefore, for PD the vouchers ensure, sufficiently, that the worker and his family have a free and dignified existence. Now, Mr President, how can we possibly be completely in favour of a ragged, patched-up, overly selfish, negligent and indifferent to the needs of our citizens? The 5 Star Movement Group abstains. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u45	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the teachers and students of the High School of State Gymnasium Gian Battista Brocchi in Bassano del Grappa, in the province of Vicenza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u48	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Madam President, we in the Italian Left will vote for this measure in the first place because we do not regard the referendum as a threat at all; on the contrary, we think that it is a form of democracy, the only one that I myself recognise, namely popular democracy, and this is a victory for the democracy of the people in the flesh. We will therefore vote for the measure, but it must be clear that we do not trust this Government at all, because we will remember until the end that it is the Government of the jobs act, which in fact has massacred dignity and democracy in the workplace. Parent Senator, denying that vouchers are an integral part of the jobs act is like saying donkeys fly. If one has reached one hundred and forty million vouchers in 2016, it is only a matter of saying in this House that it is the opposition's fault and then the picture would really be complete. One hundred and forty million vouchers which, I remember, are bought in tobacconist shops now concern 1.5 million of our workers and our workers, and it is a monstrous figure. To be more clear, these vouchers have a value of 7.5 euros of remuneration that go to workers and about one euro of contributions to be paid to INAIL, contributions that will serve or should serve for present and future pensions. According to a calculation made by someone, if a worker - as is the case with the million and a half workers - worked with vouchers, it would take more than a hundred years to retire. It is truly absurd that someone should continue to defend this instrument. A few weeks ago, we audited the chairman of the INPS - I would point out that he was not one who was on the street - who told us that our young people, boys and girls of the 1989 class, are seriously at risk - the president used a euphemism - not to take the pension or have any serious problems to perceive it. If the one-hour voucher corresponds to one euro paid for the pension, how will you pay the current and future pensions to the million and a half people affected in this country? In this debate, there have been disobedience about disobedience. That vouchers would be used to bring out black work I didn't see it written anywhere. I repeat that the vouchers did not serve to bring out the black work. Looks like the job wasn't there before the vouchers. Before the vouchers the work was there and was contractualized. I know this word is unknown to you, but the work was contracted! [[Applause from Senators Bulgarelli and Pepe.]] So, what are we talking about? It always seems that before the vouchers there was nothing. But keep doing that! I repeat that the only thing we had to do, and that would have served this country, was the elimination of the jungle of contracts (contracts are done to say); these are more than 40 forms of contracts. And what were they for? Take the case of contracts, where the worker doesn't even know who he's going to work for. Do you realize that the worker goes to work and doesn't know who his employer is, why does this get away from any responsibility? That's what we should talk about. But you keep pretending nothing and talking about things that don't exist. However, as I said, I want to go back to Article 18. Here I hear of the abolition of the Fornero reform, but I remember that there were three referendum questions and that one spoke of Article 18. Since I am a politician, here too I would not like to talk about the quirk for which 1,100,000 signatures of people who obviously know what real life is are not allowed. However, I would like to make a point, if I may, which is addressed to this House. I don't go into the matter, also because I am not a justiceist and, indeed, when I listen to a person, even those who are farther from my thinking, I always listen carefully. A few days ago we discussed the Minzolini issue. I repeat, I do not go into the matter. Well, in the speeches made, we tried to bring out, after three degrees of judgment, the injustice that suffered, or that would have suffered, one of our fellow senators. And for this reason this injustice had to be healed. Now, since we are still living in a democratic country, do you tell me why this is true when it comes to any of you, while a worker, even if he wins the case and the judge finds out that he is right, would not be entitled and could not claim justice, as he is compensated as if it were a commodity and then paid for a nonsense and sent home? [[Applause from the Mixed Group]] But how do you think (because I, from this point of view, do not pose the problem) that I can be credible for those who listen to us outside of here? How do you think that politics can regain its role, that of politics? I wanted to make this point, because I think that politics should be interested in certain issues and overcome even the quirks. As far as Article 18 is concerned, I want to see - and I will be attentive to all those who speak so much to speak - whether this issue will return to the attention of politics. Because this is democracy: to respect our people. I do not want to be rhetorical about this, but I believe that is the task of politics. I conclude by saying that work must return to contractualization, because only this would allow our country to get out of this swamp. I've heard so many numbers that we're on the move. Even someone in the Commission said this afternoon that there are companies that are looking for workers but do not find them. And I invited them to tell me the names of these companies, so we bring them the workers: no problem. Living on another planet is really out of place. Living in this world that you created is truly depressing. I'm not in, of course. Therefore, we will vote for this measure, but we do not trust this Government at all. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u51	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the decree-law on our examination totally cancels the voucher institute from the possibilities offered to employers and workers in our country, and this is particularly paradoxical, because a government that has expanded the use of vouchers does so. Vouchers are born with the so-called Biagi law of 2003, under the Berlusconi Government, but they are concretely implemented with the Berlusconi Government of 2008, the year in which this legislation is made operational that allows special situations, within certain limits, to use what the law defines as good work, more commonly known as vouchers. It is an institution that is faced with a number of situations where it would be very difficult to use any other work contract instrument, less than an indefinite contract, although in 2008 there were several other forms available. Then came the so-called jobs act that greatly reduced these contractual forms and now comes the total cancellation of the voucher. And to think that the Renzi Government was the one that started an exorbitant, exaggerated and most likely dishonest (by many, we mean, by many others instead it was correct) use of vouchers. The numbers are as follows: in 2011, with the Berlusconi Government, the number of vouchers used during the year was 15 million. Then in 2012 it was increased to 23 million (the Monti Government had already widened the scope), in 2013 to 40 million, but the beauty comes with the Renzi Government: 69 million in 2014, a further increase in 2015, up to 134 million in 2016. Then the case would like the current majority and the current Government that, at least from the moral point of view, are a clear continuation of the previous Government, that is of the Renzi Government, to say clearly (but I have never heard it say): We have done something stupidly colossal, we have made a mistake, or we have to resign someone, in particular who was the Minister of Labour, in continuity between the two governments. We have now discovered that not only did we not have to double the use of vouchers (it is a question of doubling only from the beginning of the Renzi Government, because from the Berlusconi Government there has been an increase of nine times; 900 percent more is more striking, but it means the same thing), but the Renzi Government, which caused this doubling, discovers that it is not necessary to use them for anything. But why is it asked to abolish the vouchers completely? What is the reason for the decree-law on our examination? The promoters of the referendums, namely the CGIL, presented in an official document a few months ago, so not in the form of passing statements that can be misunderstood, but in the very full-bodied document that is the Charter of the Universal Rights of Work, their thought, even with some detail of formulation, on the use of good work, or vouchers. They simply ask for certain limitations to avoid excess. Well, what does the government do? It abolishes them completely, because - as he writes in the preamble of the decree-law - there is the urgency to put an end to the abuses of the voucher. Fantastic: The government clearly says that it has completely mistaken its work policies. This is not the truth, or rather it is very true that it has wrong labour policies, but the Government is not sincere, because the only reason to abolish vouchers - and also to do so by decree-law - is to prevent the referendum, in which the Government (especially the Democratic Party, rather than the Government itself) would risk a confrontation with a certain left who feels particularly represented or at least close to the position of the CGIL. Not wanting to deal with it for purely party reasons, of party interest and perhaps just party leaders, just for these reasons says: rather than making that referendum we completely abolish the voucher, to which, in fact, the Government is in favour. It is a mockery, but if they were just a mockery and a political picnic, patience: all in all, everyone bears the responsibility for his own acts. The problem is that employers and Italian workers end up in trouble. Last year, 134 million good jobs were used by 1,600,000 workers. What have these people been doing since the law-law came into force? Someone is lucky because the employer had bought them before and in this decree-law it says that vouchers can be used until the end of the year. We had tabled an amendment calling for them to be used even after the end of the year. If someone has them, they end up being used in an artificial way, because if you find too many good jobs in your pocket you risk actually having to use them where they are improper and knowing that they are improperly used; however, in order not to throw them away - because it's money - you probably will use them that way. Since the end of the year, apart from the lucky employers and their employees who can still use the purchased ones, they can no longer use them, with serious consequences in a number of very large sectors (e.g. agriculture, where - there is no need to be graduates in agronomy to understand it - seasonality is a fact inherent in the activity itself), and in a number of situations such as small household jobs and calling work situations in catering and other sectors. This means first of all serious damage to workers and their employers, who will have to resort to black or, in some very rare case, may be able to transform this type of employment relationship into a more demanding contract, but they will be close to zero. The other solution, as I said, will be black work, with all that this entails. I do not believe that a responsible parliament and government should incite, almost force or instigate the use of black, even if the technical report tells us that they will all be transformed into contracts of another kind; on the other hand there is the shameless lie in the motivations of the decree-law, and it is not strange that there is lies also in the technical report. However, there is a good thing about this very fast passage in this House: the G1.115 agenda has been adopted, which is really smart. What is the purpose of this decree-law? Prevent the referendum. The problem is that, to date - and this has been going on for weeks - all the municipalities are facing all the expenses and procedures, even onerous from the point of view of the time it requires of the very few municipal employees - I am referring in particular to the small municipalities - because the referendum is called for, because to date the entire referendary machine officially works as if the referendum were held. The municipalities face expenses and therefore, rightly, this agenda of Senator Orellana and other senators - but which was voted by the majority of this Senate and also by some members of the majority - commits the Government to repay to the municipalities the expenses incurred in the referendum of 28 May if the referendum questions lapse, which is precisely the purpose of the Government. 18.38 (Follows MALAN). I remember that the commitments made in the Senate are serious, so I expect the government to find the money; since to welcome immigrants to hundreds of thousands, it finds them - frankly in this case they are much less - I expect the government to find them to repay the municipalities for a completely unnecessary expense they are supporting. It would be at least a positive thing in a decree-law that is unjustified in its premises, unjustified in its implementation and seriously detrimental to the working situation of hundreds of thousands of Italians. For these reasons, Forza Italia votes firmly and absolutely not. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u54	LEPRI (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the conversion into law of the decree-law which provides for the repeal of the provisions on ancillary work and the modification of the provisions on joint liability in the field of procurement. The reason for the urgency is twofold: on the one hand it is clear that there is an extraordinary need to intervene on the two issues in order to avoid abuse and opportunistic behaviour; on the other hand, a request for a repealing referendum is pending on the two issues, which the Constitutional Court considered acceptable and already called. The government and the parliamentary majority probably shortly after the final vote consider, therefore, that it is better to adopt a clear choice. The requests contained in the referral questions are entirely considered precisely because different and more appropriate solutions are urgently to be found. Council President Paolo Gentiloni Silveri noted that the voucher tool has gradually deteriorated. There is truth because there is no doubt that some have abused them, perhaps in the face of insufficient controls; just as it is true that some objectives, for example to bring out the black work, have not always been achieved. I quote, for example, domestic employment relationships: in Italy today less than half of employment contracts would be regular. In this field, for example, the Institute of Ancillary Work does not seem to have solved the issue. There is also reason to believe, reading carefully the data of recent years, that vouchers have had some effect of replacing previous employment relationships, especially in the field of tourism, trade and services. In addition, there has been a certain use of vouchers for work benefits which in previous months had already had an employment relationship with the same employer. On the other hand, it seems difficult to argue that accessory work has become a habitual form of circumvention. Today, in fact, it represents a percentage between 0.2 and 0.3 per cent of working hours in Italy. Its usefulness in areas such as agriculture, the employment of disadvantaged people, assistance at congresses or at sporting events, the sale in the Christmas period, school services, domestic services for those who are not self-sufficient and for children is therefore indisputable. In short, there have been abuses and it is plausible to believe that in some cases the voucher has replaced the regular work, but in most cases it has allowed to carry out in a transparent, simple way, with reduced transaction costs and with contributory coverage works that otherwise would have remained in the submerged economy or could not have been carried out. The intention is, therefore, to identify new rules soon and well, also through fruitful and frank comparisons with the social partners. Among the solutions there could be a different use of the intermittent employment contract, which had been reduced precisely in view of the extension of the space granted to vouchers. Positive examples to which we can inspire ourselves can come from the French Cheques, which also incorporate a public contribution to support services for the family and people in need. For businesses, on the other hand, an instrument could be made available on the model of the German mini-jobs, but without their weaknesses and perhaps combined with the characteristics of the work on call. As regards the procurement provisions, their amendments are identical to the repealing measure proposed in the reference question. However, the principle of joint liability of the contractor or employer with the contractor and any subcontractors remains unchanged. Also in this case the discipline will have to be revised quickly, in order to avoid both the opportunistic behavior from the buyers brought to award the contracts with excessive drops, and to make our Country not attractive for the investors, especially the international ones, because of mechanisms of reval against them farraginous or excessively onerous. In conclusion, even today we do not shy away from voting in a responsible spirit. It is a vote consistent with the reformist approach, which inevitably provides for constant and necessary adjustments and corrections, but which together respects the legitimate constitutional prerogatives exercised. For all this, I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u56	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u57	SACCONI (AP-CpE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not contest, in dissent from the group which hosts me, the adoption of this measure, which represents a choice of escape from the referendary challenge of the conservatives, an act of distrust towards the maturity of the nation, a clear contradiction with an intuition of Marco Biagi and with the same jobs act and, for what it is worth, the denial of many of my experiences. I have very much in mind the referendum on the much more insidious question, which asked the Italians in 1985 if they wanted more than 300,000 lire in the paycheck. The then Prime Minister Bettino Craxi confided that a campaign of truth would unveil the optical illusion of the inflationary spiral. So it was, and years of development and modernization of Italy came. I remember no less when Marco Biagi convinced me to introduce the first experimentation of the good prepaid, to facilitate the emergence of many work pieces. It was guided by a principle of reality that combined with that of the protection of every work, even the shortest, unexpected, occasional. Now we will have to remedy the vacuum that is produced quickly. They combine tourist and agricultural seasonality, such as the legitimate expectations of students, pensioners, Cassaintegrati, family mothers. And the solution will have to be as simple as the good ones. For this reason I have today deposited a bill, signed with colleagues of majority and opposition, dedicated to defining short work and its easy regularization, alongside the liberalization of intermittent work. We're gonna have to talk about this real soon. But even more, we will have to take up the real priorities of work in the fourth industrial revolution, from adapting skills to increasing productivity, so that machines do not replace people in a jobless society. [[Applause from Senators Carraro, Quagliariello, Giovanardi and Moscardelli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u60	SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u61	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Campanella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u64	FILIPPIN (PD). Mr President, with this speech at the end of the sitting, the relay continues today in the Senate, with which, together with many senators and many senators, we remember every woman who is killed at the hands of a man to whom she is or has been linked by a loving relationship. We will do so as long as it is necessary to remind Parliament and our country of the urgency of combating violence against women. We will continue to do so even though many actions have been put in place, not least the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry into Femicide. There are three women killed in a few hours that we remember with this intervention. The night between 12 and 13 April in Camisano Vicentino, in the province of Vicenza, Lucia Loza Rodriguez, thirty-seven years old, was stabbed by her husband at the climax of a violent quarrel. On April 13 in Ortona, in the province of Chieti, Letizia Primiterra, forty-seven years old, she was stabbed by her husband, from whom she had recently separated. The man also killed a friend of the woman, Laura Pezzella, thirty-three years old, because she held her responsible for the crisis of her marriage. This brings to 53 the women we remember in this relay, which began only on June 30, 2016. The story of Lucia Rodriguez is similar to that of other women who silently endure the violent behavior of their husband or partner and who, when they find the strength to denounce, are often not adequately protected or protected. Before her husband killed her with 35 stab wounds, while their three - year - old girl slept upstairs, Lucia had already suffered violence, even a broken wrist, and in recent months the police had been called to that house several times for family quarrels. But nothing changed, the silence continued and Lucia was killed. Thus, in silence, on Holy Friday of passion, more than 500 people crossed the village of Camisano. Many women, some men, each and every one with something red on them to remember Lucia and all the other women who have been killed since 2016 to date. Only reading their names broke that silence. Let us make our appeal with conviction. An appeal to the Government all and to the Undersecretary with delegation to equal opportunities: the directing booth monitors the application, the merits and the limits of Law No. 119 of 2013; above all give full and accurate implementation to the plan against violence. An appeal to the media: stop justifying, even in the wrong language, the murderers and to blame women. An appeal to the country, men and women: more than 120 women were killed in 2016, we can no longer accept this massacre, and we can no longer tolerate silence. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u67	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I rise to ask for the government's intervention so that tomorrow it sends a circular to all the municipalities and prefectures to explain, if nothing else, to wait, for every proactive and preparatory activity of the referendum, for the outcome of the decision of the Supreme Court. The municipalities are in fact working and wasting resources in view of a referendum that will not be there. Moreover, the personnel of the various municipalities arranged are called by the prefectures to make meetings, and this for a small municipality means really a loss of resources that must be used for other. A government should actually look at work. There is so much waste: let us at least avoid what we can. It was enough that the government said to wait until after the conversion of the decree-law, so we know that the referendum will not be held. A minimum of foresight was needed. So, Mr President, I would like you to take real responsibility to warn everyone to suspend all activity. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u68	Okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u69	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-04-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-809.ana.u70	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday, April 20, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.54.
