ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 25 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. From now on, therefore, the deadline of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:36 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 302, 1019, 1151, 1789 and 1907. I would remind you that at the sitting on 18 May the rapporteur gave the oral report and the general discussion took place. He asked the rapporteur, Senator Russo, to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u5	Madam President, I would like to update this House with respect to this measure. As my fellow Members will recall, the green light from the 5th Commission was expected, also in the light of the requirements of the General Accounting Office of the State. I have been sent the correspondence with a note from the Accounting Office which requires some changes to the text so that I can subsequently receive the favourable opinion and the technical report from the Ministry of Labour. At this point, I think it is better for the measure to return to the Commission, so that these prescriptions and indications can be accepted - I hope quickly - and can be presented to the House - I hope promptly - with the technical report properly boiled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u6	Therefore, if no comments are made, this remains the case.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on draft law No 968. The rapporteurs, Senator Cucca and Vaccari, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Cucca.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u8	Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, today we have here a measure which has certainly not been troubled but very long because, in the course of the debate in the Commission, there were also problems of interpretation which led to the lengthening of the procedure pending an opinion which came from the MEF and which, in some ways, has been delayed. This has greatly extended the process of the provision which is extremely important, because it finally puts order in a matter on which there have been doctrinal elaborations developed over the years by precise case-law references and by hints of regulation present in different regulatory measures. Nevertheless, up to now, the matter has not been fully addressed. The report proposed by Senator Pagliari, which I invite colleagues to reread, together with the bill, had taken charge of carrying out an accurate historical examination of the roots of collective domains. It is a fil rouge that had united the great part of Italian civilistic and administrative doctrine. Many scholars have dealt with this issue over the years and their examination has led to Parliament's attempt to regulate it but, as I have said, until now there has never been a comprehensive and comprehensive intervention. There have been only a few clarifications introduced in laws of various kinds. As I said, many scholars have taken care of the matter. For all, I would quote Salvatore Pugliatti and Filippo Vassalli, who have focused on the legal roots of the concept of collective property based on the tradition of some social formations, whose relationship with the territory and the environment has taken over the years forms and peculiar uses. These scholars, who have been followed by many administrativeists, have drawn a parable of this idea that has even been poorly tolerated in a system like ours which, as is well known, places at the center of attention and the system of real rights basically the proven property, protected even constitutionally. It is based on a code-based approach based on the closed number of real rights. It seems useless to me to dwell on the doctrinal analysis of the problem which, in fact, draws attention to the importance that the relationship between the rights of the subjects and the goods can be read in a different key than the one today followed by the Romanist systems. The draft law we are dealing with today is very narrow, but it finally puts order in a matter which - I can assure you - has often and willingly led to problems of public order. With reference to the subject of collective domains, precisely because of the system that exists in Italy for the protection of private property, over the years, but I would say even over the centuries, we have come to think, on the part of some, that those goods that were not owned by private individuals, but were collective property or in any case belonging to bodies, because exploited by the citizen and since sometimes for a long time assigned in use and enjoyment of the collective and private citizens, could then be privatised, by virtue of that use. This has also led to many problems over the decades. I am speaking out of direct knowledge of the matter, because there have been many problems of this kind on my island and numerous disputes have arisen, even before the judicial authority. This is because some have misunderstood the nature of the enjoyment of these goods and it has been thought that, in fact, those goods lost their characteristic of advertising goods, made available to the community, and could instead enter the private sphere of citizens. As I said, the bill is very slender and consists of three articles. Article 1 gives recognition to collective domains as the primary legal system of the original communities. The first paragraph highlights the hybrid nature of this institute, which stands at a crossroads between the joint exercise of real rights and enjoyment and a publicistic management profile, which, among other things, is evident from the last part of letter d). This letter explicitly refers to the land that the municipality administers or that the community distinct from it has in public or private property. The second paragraph regulates the statute of collective domination and seems to refer to the idea that it is a social training to which legal personality is also conferred. Article 2 instead lays down the competence of the State and clearly indicates that collective domains are stable components of the environmental system and constitute a territorial basis for historical institutions to safeguard cultural and natural heritage. Therefore, the constitutional foundation of the bill is found in an atypical form of collective property, to which also refers the first paragraph of Article 42, of the Constitution and a finalistic element of protection of the cultural heritage referred to in Article 9 of the Constitution. Finally, as regards Article 3, it regulates collective goods by defining them on time. In this respect, it should be noted that this provision implicitly integrates Title I of the third book of the Civil Code, in an attempt to introduce a sort of tertium genus between public and private property. With respect to the legal regime of these goods it must be stressed that its inalienability, indivisibility, incomparableness and the constraint of permanent destination are established. In this sense the field is finally cleared from that misunderstanding - which I mentioned earlier - from which many citizens have been deceived, in relation to the extremely prolonged use of these goods, in some cases even passed down from father to son, which in some ways has corroborated the idea that they could leave the public sphere and enter the private one, thus becoming the exclusive property of citizens and of the people who had previously taken advantage of it. Just this passing of the time, as I said, has originated numerous litigations that however, beyond some jurisprudential oscillation that has occurred but that is absolutely minority, have always led to the recognition and therefore to the confirmation of the public bond and the bond of destination, obviously including the incomprehensibleness of the good itself. It seems therefore to be possible to conclude that, excluding the events of transfer of ownership that have occurred and therefore of acquisition as an original derivative of real rights on such goods, the collective domains distinguish themselves for the exercise of rights of enjoyment, use and use only, noting also in a decisive way the conservation of civic uses in order to contribute to the protection of the environment and the landscape. During the Commission's work, changes were introduced not only in terms of the ownership of these collective property, but also in brief references to the regions with special status; I repeat, however, that these changes are absolutely not of substance, but simply of completion, clarification and specification. In essence, therefore, the measure under consideration attempts to give certainty to subjective legal situations that have often had blurred contours precisely because they have settled over time, have occurred for very long periods and, as I said, even these goods or their use - to be more precise, correct and punctual in relation to the concept that we must have in the matter of collective rights - have been handed down from father to son for entire generations (from grandfather to father, from father to son) in exclusive use. The field on the destination that these goods may have is therefore finally cleared; therefore, the original nature, which is that of goods made available, of goods owned by public bodies, or in any case of public property, which are made available for use, use and even exploitation with particular destinations, simply remains. Think, for example, of the use for the woody (i.e. the citizenship is allowed to go to make wood for its own needs in territories owned by the community), or of the attribution of the right to pasture always on the goods of the community; at the same time, however, the private citizen is allowed to introduce his own flocks, his own herds in order to be able to graze in these lands, which in any case maintain their public nature and which can never become object of usupcapion or in any case of transfer of the right to property. It was therefore intended to define by law this relationship between the collective communities and the goods, the lands of which I was talking about, thus tending to give security in the rights of enjoyment obviously also in those social relations that until now had been put back to sources of subordinate regulation or in any case of very nuanced legality, with very nuanced contours. Of course, the measure is welcomed with great satisfaction by many scholars who had dealt with this matter and by many representatives of communities interested in the problem of collective goods. There are a large number of goods that are considered collective goods and that are insured for use by the community. Therefore, this measure is greeted with great interest by these people: numerous associations have also been formed, which have strongly given impetus and stimulus to parliamentary activity. This measure, therefore, finally puts order in a matter which contained certain points of little clarity which - I repeat - have caused numerous disputes over these years. The hope is that it will be adopted quickly, even in view of the lack of complexity of the problem. Allow me, Madam President, once again, and always stressing that this is not an act of circumstance, to thank the members of the Commission, who, with absolute professionalism, have made themselves available to enable the work to be carried out correctly and to have a full knowledge of the documents necessary for the examination of the measure. A final thank you must go to my colleague Senator Pagliari, the first signatory of this bill, who really worked hard to educate this measure. He also gave a strong stimulus, having aware of the subject, also because of his professional activity, and having had the opportunity to personally deal with the matter. He strongly wanted it by writing it himself and putting the emphasis on those issues of which I have spoken that, at last, they will find a suitable solution and ensure a more correct development between the agencies that hold these goods and those who, instead, will be called to enjoy them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u9	Today the national president and a delegation of the Soroptimist International are present in the gallery. In thanking them for their presence, I would like to add that it is an important occasion that sees them here today. In fact, in the afternoon, a conference will take place with our patronage on the theme "Women victims of violence". The Soroptimist is committed alongside the institutions to safeguarding women's status, enhancing their talents and protecting human rights. So I wanted to say that we have been fighting here for a long time, unfortunately. For what it may serve (and we believe it serves), there is a relay in place here in the Senate among the senators who, whenever a woman is killed, take the floor in the Chamber just to remember the event. We are very sensitive to this issue and thank you for your work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u10	I call the rapporteur, Senator Vaccari.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u11	Madam President, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I too want to begin my report by thanking my colleague Pagliari for the proposal he gave to the Commissions and which was then brought, after a work that Mr Cucca has well described, to the attention of this House. To complement the legal and doctrinal framework described by my colleague, I would like to focus on the aspects of legislative and cultural innovation that this measure contains. We are talking, in fact, about civic uses and all the other forms of collective property that, over the centuries, have undergone various transformations, generated disputes, as Mr Cucca recalled, suffered numerous attacks in the name of official models advocated by the various state systems. He is not a legislator, therefore, who created them, nor are there laws of the States at the origin of their constitution. The opposite is true: legislators and laws have moved only to suppress them, or at least to suffocate them, to restrain them, to alter their structure in correspondence with the new official models of bourgeois society. I cite only as an example the fascist law of 1927, law to national projection and therefore surely sacrifice of the overflowing wealth and variety expressed by the territory of our peninsula. It is precisely this that we want to emphasize the importance: as Paolo Grossi has well taught us in his essay "Civical Uses": a living story that I have drawn many ideas from, civic uses are manifestations of a primordial custom, they are a prius compared to the State, genuine emanations of a society that spontaneously self-orders in order to ensure a better daily survival. It should never be forgotten, in fact, that these civic uses constitute the voice of populations, that thanks to them have survived and that in them they have transfused their typical sign, their own custom, identifying themselves even in them. What we call civic uses - including in this generic and sometimes equivocal collector the thousand and varied collective land structures that range from the Valdostan consorteries to the rules and communities of the eastern Alps, to the Emilian participations, on which I will say something later, to the collective domains of central Italy, to the southern civic uses, to the apexive Sardinians - represent, with regard to the official legal tradition of Romanesque imprint, another tradition, which is born in remote times. In fact, to a tradition centered until the exasperation on the individual subject and his powers, is opposed an anthropological foundation and an experience of community life. In other words, the absolute diversity (in fact, absolute opposition) lies in the protagonist role of the thing - of the productive thing, of the good par excellence: the earth - and of the community. And it is right around the earth that was born one of the last forms of collective property of medieval origin still present in Italy as the agricultural participations of Emilia. Currently there are six, located in the strip of the low Emilian plain between Modena and Bologna, in the municipalities of Nonantola, Sant'Agata Bolognese, San Giovanni in Persiceto, Cento, Pieve di Cento and Villa Fontana. Following rules almost unchanged over time, the collective heritage that characterizes them is periodically distributed, by drawing, among those entitled, that is the legitimate male descendants of the ancient families linked to these territories. At their base are a series of enfiteutic concessions of vast land to be reclaimed, made from the end of the XI century by the Abbot of the Monastery of Nonantola or, subsequently, by the Bishop of Bologna to the communities that already lived in those places. The oldest of these Emilian experiences of agricultural participation is that of Nonantola, in the Province of Modena, Municipality in which I was born and raised and in which I have been mayor for nine years. The origin of the goods that constitute the present Agrarian Participation of Nonantola is commonly traced back to an enfiteutica concession of a vast extension of land in that territory, made in 1058 by the abbot Gotescalco, commendary abbot of the Abbey and the monastery of Nonantola, to the nonantolano people. The enfiteusi gave in perpetual enjoyment of the land to be reclaimed and cultivated to the nonantolans (initially 50 families) and to all those who from the neighboring places had purposely wanted to transfer there, with the obligation of residence, inalienability, payment of a modest canon and the right of pasture and wood in other common lands. Safer foundation of the institution was the twenty-nine-year enfiteutica concession, made by the abbot of Nonantola Galeazzo Pepoli in 1442, of the tenements called the "Valle" to the municipality and the men of Nonantola and their successors and descendants, forever, to which was added the renewal of this enfiteusi of 1453 that increased a new level also for the nonantolano wood. Such goods granted to the community were then periodically distributed to the descendants of the first beneficiaries who went to form, within the community, what is the core of today's participants. The approach to the existing moral entity, however, was not easy: over the centuries it was the events that characterized its slow constitution as an autonomous institution. In the 19th century, the municipality, which initially identified itself with the original citizens, gradually broke these ancient limits, extended to all resident citizens, even non-originating, and took life gradually the agency of the Agrarian Participation. The liberation from municipal management was slow and troubled. It was with the law August 4, 1894, n. 397, that the Participation was recognized, along with the other Emilian Participations, as a moral entity having its own legal personality. Originally the families that contributed to the creation of the Agrarian Participation were fifty and their surnames can be found in the correspondences and documents deposited both at the Municipal Historical Archive, and at the Historical Archive of the Participation. Today, the descendants of the nonantolan origins are characterized by twenty-two particular surnames and represent a quarter of the total population, of little more than 15,000 inhabitants. But it is precisely the Charter of Gotescalco of 1058, still preserved at the Abbey Archive of Nonantola, which deeply engraved on the life of the community built around one of the most important monasteries in Europe. This Charter established those special economic and social conventions that gave rise to the custom of the common exploitation of abbey goods, binding with a strong bond the men of Nonantola to their land. The Abbot granted perpetually to all the inhabitants of the place, divided into maiores, mediocres and minores, according to the social extraction, the privilege of the enjoyment of the fundamental rights concerning the freedom of the person, the right of the use of the arable land placed within the border of the territory and a vast extension of woods, marshes and meadows to be exploited for grazing and wooding. The Abbot established the rules to be able to take advantage of these privileges: first, the obligation of residence, the hereditary transmission of the land by masculine way, the burden of building three quarters of the walls of fortification of the village, monastery and territory of Nonantola against all enemies. In the Charter a passage clearly clarifies the character of public utility that should have maintained that land donated to the inhabitants of the village born around the Benedictine Monastery. Gotescale wrote: By this order then that neither to me, overwritten Gotescalk Abbot, nor to any of my successors it is lawful to give to anyone or to grant in fiefdom or for precarious or for libel or in any other way of the foretold land, wilds and swamps and pastures that are in it, except to common benefit of the overwritten people as above read. These are also, therefore, the roots on which the bill that we are discussing today is based and motivated, which wants to recognize collective domains as neo-institutional subjects, as they are the responsibility of the administration in both an objective and subjective sense of civic heritage. In addition, as managing bodies of the lands of collective enjoyment, they fall fully into the local entrepreneurship, which is responsible for the protection and exploitation of all natural and human resources present in the civic property. In the current phase of development of rural areas (in particular the mountain), whose strategies rely essentially on the model of local development and on that of sustainable development, the collective domains are recognized, finally, the ability to make own also the stimuli coming from the outside of the community for the mobilization of the internal resources, to retain on the spot the multiplying effects and to give birth induced in the family and craftsmanship, in the supply chain of the energy of the renewable resources and in the sectors of the services and the tourism responsible and sustainable. Among the many effects that the application of the provisions contained in the draft law will have on the territory and on the subjects to which it belongs, precisely, the administration of the civic heritage, as a direct consequence of the active presence of the collective property, we can mention the maintenance of the populations to garrison of the territory (public, collective, private), the integration between civic heritage and resident families, the integration between civic heritage and local enterprises, the maintenance of the territory and the active conservation and valorization of the environment, the guarantee of an environmental mark, the cohesion of the population and the creation of cooperative behaviors in the economic, social and environmental field. (Senator Puglisi, as she goes to her scranno, stumbles and falls.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u12	Please, let's call the doctor. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 10.08 a.m. and resumed at 10.14 a.m.) The session is resumed. Please, Senator Vaccari, continue your relationship.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u13	Madam President, as I said, among the many effects that the application of the provisions contained in this draft law can have on the territory and on the subjects to which the administration of the civic heritage is responsible, as a direct consequence of the active presence of collective property, can be mentioned: the maintenance of the populations as a garrison of the territory (public, collective, private), the integration between the civic heritage and resident families, the integration between the civic heritage and local enterprises, the maintenance of the territory, the active conservation and the valorization of the environment, the guarantee of an environmental mark, the cohesion of the population and the creation of cooperative behaviors in the economic, social and environmental fields. Therefore, that to our examination is a bill that sets itself important and innovative objectives, among which the recognition of collective domains, however called, as the primary legal order of the original communities, as well as the recognition of the right of use of collective domination, as a right having to object, normally and not exceptionally, the usefulness of the fund, consisting in an exploitation of the dominion reserved to the citizens of the municipality, which determines, in the citizen, a complex legal situation, of an individual interest having to object to the use of the goods according to their destination and a collective interest in the conservation of the destination of the goods. There is also recognition of the capacity for self-regulation of collective domains which therefore facilitates the exercise of rights at an individual level (right of access in an area, right of withdrawal) and at a collective or administrative level (i.e. management rights and rights of exclusion from use or tacit cooperation of individuals using resources in compliance with a set of rules established by the managing body). Finally, there is a reference to the competence of the State that reveals the reasons of general interest that are the basis of the legislative intervention of the National Parliament, which aims to ensure that the laws that the Regions may wish to enact on collective structures cannot ignore the idea and the values of collective property, which are the peculiar way of communities to live the relationship between man and land and the customary discipline of land management by the owners communities, with the aim of protecting the nature and protection of the environment and the modern activities planned and exercised by the communities on their common properties for the purpose of the market. It is therefore a legislative innovation that combines tradition, history and values. For example, the value of solidarity, of doing together, that if for a verse it was an indispensable time (for example the reclamation works could not be done except with the collaboration and the work of all), on the other hand it has always been a reference to establish the rules for the good conduct of the land, for the right relations between the participants and the components of the civic uses. In the last century this value has also served to establish new forms of self-government of institutions. I add the value of respect for the land received in delivery for the pre-established period with the commitment to cultivate it according to the good rules of agriculture, not only because in the next part of the lottery it would have involved an exchange of land but above all because such land had to be passed on to future generations. In addition, I quote the value of the identity that finds its greatest reference in the feeling, as a participant in civic uses, of being part of a history of people and places, in the awareness of its cultural roots and the value of another way of possessing it that is measured through the continuous solicitation to seek the best rules for the best possible coexistence, which must always focus on the essence of the original law and, at the same time, must always refer to the principles of equal treatment among the participants themselves, of administrative transparency, of democracy and of participation. Finally, I recall the value of equality that has continually motivated and supported the struggles against the oppressions and abuses of the powerful who, in different ways and times, have always tried to take over the majority of the income obtained from the land. Their being a community, therefore, is not the result of a sick vision of romance. The community is there, because there is a community of men and women united by a common history, by common traditions, by a common work, by common goals: traits, these, which make a collective property a community even spiritual, meaning with this demanding adjective connoting a community supported by common values (which can be moral, social, environmental). Grossi wrote a happy conjunction of things and men, land and people who live and work on it in the name of an absolutely typical costume. Finally, the centrality of the word "subsidiarity" means the enhancement of diversity, using the instrument respectful of self-regulations emerging from below and often the result of a long historical test. It is only in this way that the principle of subsidiarity, instead of damaging the unity of the State, brings it closer to society by avoiding those risky unbundlings between the state apparatus of power and social complexity, which are - alas - one of the negative aspects of the present time. We are still the unconscious - or aware - bearers of a Jacobine vision, cumbersome, invasive, intolerant, of the State, while we should be more attentive to the richness of a social fabric, which is not the injury of state authority, but rather its strength. Thus, collective domains are a multifaceted reality, the result of a thousand-year history and a pulsating activity, which today will finally be recognized. [[Applause from Senators Panizza and Spousetti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u14	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, civic uses and collective domains are the survivals of a communist use of the territory of very ancient origins. These ancient forms of organization - I repeat - not only have not disappeared, but still present important economic, environmental and social profiles. These rights have been exercised since time immemorial and the most important thing I would like to stress is that they constituted the first form of community organisation and the first level of participation in public affairs. The collective domains are, in fact, a form of original collective property, i.e. assets or complexes of goods that belong, on an original note, to a community recognized according to ancient statutes or customs. For example, the Agrarian Participation of my country, Nonantola, in the Province of Modena - already mentioned by my fellow countryman, Senator Vaccari - that I like to remember here and that is the oldest among the six Emilian Participations still existing, owes its origin to the Charter of 1058 with which the Abbot Gotecalco of Nonantola granted the people the right of use on the arable land located within the borders of the country. These assets constitute ancient agro-silvo-pastoral heritages; they are historically managed by the local community and belong to each and every member of the community. This implies a peculiarity with respect to the legal order of common law where as a rule the good or the right is registered to a person identified as individual (both public and private) and, for example, constitutes a real guarantee of the holder, may be subject to co-execution in favour of creditors, etc. Instead, goods destined for the needs of an entire community are subject to a legal regime of unwillingness, but also to the constraint of destination and imprecitation, which in fact makes their regime similar to that of public property. For this reason, I have fought in its time, successfully - before the exemption of agricultural land in general - to eliminate the levy on these land which, precisely because of their indivisibility and inalienability, cannot be liquidated; which means that the protempore owner can never take possession of the equivalent of the good, but it is precisely the possibility for the owner to dispose of the asset, that is, to enter, in possession of the equivalent of his property, the main prerequisite for justifying taxation also on the assets. The Constitution, which in Article 42, paragraph 1, provides that the property is public or private. Economic goods belong to the State, to institutions or to private individuals, it does not consider in an express way the institution of collective property, precisely the goods belonging originally to a community. The draft law in our examination thus introduces an element of clarity, establishing the recognition of collective domains however called. This bias between public and private classically understood has in fact been recognized for a long time in doctrine, so much so that it has been spoken with reference to the collective properties of a different planet. They contribute to better defining the concept three elements: that of community, that is, the whole of the physical persons who manage the common good and are indispensable to the attainment of a purpose that is the utility of all; the "cosa" (that is, the earth understood as a complete ecosystem) is not only economical, but also natural, aesthetic and landscape; the end, which is precisely social, goes beyond and transcends the interests of the individual physical persons. The bill is therefore important because it finally gives full recognition to collective domains, valorizing them, as is expressly said, as authentic neo-institutional subjects, to which the direct administration of civic heritage belongs, in the perspective of a development linked to the needs of the territory and above all to the need for an ever greater environmental sustainability. This is a goal that deserves our full support, as well as the other important purposes related to this basic approach to the bill. I am referring, for example, to the full involvement of local businesses, the maintenance of the territory, the guarantee of local quality marks and the development of cooperative, social and environmental sensitivities. I am therefore pleased that, after a long and complex process, thanks also to the tenacity of the Commission, and in particular of the rapporteurs, whom I thank, this draft law has finally come to pass. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u16	I greet the students and professors of the Liceo Classico e Scientifico (Ettore Majorana) of Desio, in the province of Monza and Brianza. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u17	He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u18	Madam President, in Trentino-Alto Adige, a region from which I come, there is a thousand-year history of civic uses and collective domains. I would like to say a few words about this rule, which, all things considered, is about establishing important things and fixing more rigid stakes on certain issues. The tendency on the part of the municipalities was in fact to incorporate everything that was collective in the territory, with the famous freeing; some municipalities realized it with separate managements, other municipalities even with the patrimonialization within the municipal assets. Those who have known the dynamics and the phenomenon have carried out important wars and battles to continue to maintain this institute as governed today by this bill. Having a pre-communal history and having been a collective heritage built with effort by residents for a functional collective management mostly to pastoral and agricultural activities, it was not in fact correct that the institute under consideration was administered politically by another body; I remember that for us the Municipality is the entity that basically administers all the collective and common goods of a given territory. It was then established that the municipalities will no longer be able to extend their hands on these domains. I would like to remind you that in Trentino-Alto Adige we even wanted to make sure that the electorate of the management structures was the same that elected the City Council; that is, the active electorate of these structures would be exactly the same that went to elect the City Council. It is clear that duplicates would be created: an official municipal council and a second municipal council for the administration of collective goods. No, collective goods must be administered by the rules that these civic uses have been given over time and that may sometimes seem in conflict with our democratic order. One of the important points for us, in fact, was: well if they are a collective heritage, but if they are a heritage of a micro-society, the descendants of this one could have enjoyed the goods. A person - who can be an Italian, an oriundo etc. - once he takes up residence in a municipality, has the right of residents. This is a property that cannot be divisible according to the registry and the choices of the people. In Trentino we managed to block this orientation and continued with the track that this provision establishes the definitive way. I remind my colleagues of another absurdity (or, in any case, an element that might seem such): the ancient Feudal Rule of Predazzo, which dates back to 1400, a time when not all Italy still knew the Municipalities. According to it, the collective patrimony was transmitted by masculine line, because the family was made up of the head of fire and the head of the family; the woman who married would leave one family to enter another, ergo were the families to have the right to wood, to the reasoned use and to the division of the fruits that would be realized with the administration of these goods. In 1948 - very late - our Constitution established equality between men and women, who voted for the first time that year. It was impossible for women in the context of the Italian Republic to acquire full powers but they did not have the same powers to take over this ancient feudal rule. Undoubtedly there were appeals, which were then closed in this way: the Constitutional Court sanctioned that, since those goods had been administered there since time immemorial and it had always been considered right that it was the male line that took over the ownership of these rights, so it had always been and so would have been forever. It could be argued that the Constitution provides for something else, but the Constitutional Court has established constitutionality, fairness and great respect for the lending and pre-municipal (and pre-constitutional) bodies at this point. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]] We must not only acknowledge it, but recognise it. If I had to make a small criticism of this provision, I could say that it still leaves a window open, a wing of uncertainty, at the point where it speaks of "rights of enjoyment": the members of the community have the right of enjoyment on indivisible collective goods, etc. This has also been a major point of discussion. Let's take a good as a wood. The right of enjoyment would be related to wood, because from year to year a lot or a large plot can be exploited for the purposes of timber. There is no question about the allocation of timber quotas by head of household or head of fire; the problem arises in modern times, in recent years, when fewer and fewer families - alas - use wood for domestic heating purposes. It has been tried to redistribute by equivalent, which means that the administration of civic goods sells the timber, monetizes and returns: not being able to give money, however, returns an equivalent good, which, with reference to wood for heating, could be for example gas, in cylinders or supplied in some other way. We tried this route, but immediately we got stuck because there is no sale and a monetary refund per equivalent. Ergo, you must give the wood; whoever does not use it arranges. Thus, in the current situation, it might have been more appropriate to say that the person belonging to the community has a full right to enjoy the goods, even if they can be transformed into fungible or equivalent goods. I do not know if the objective can be achieved with an agenda, since then it should be regulated with measures in the alternative to this; but it would be good to specify this point in order to resolve also the last wing that could arise in the debate around a measure that, with the installation, certainly well states the respect that we should have towards the collective domains, ergo the memorable civil uses, pre-municipal, pre-constitutional and lent them. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Panizza. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u20	Madam President, Mr Scot Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the law regulates a system, that of collective domains, which is ancient and current at the same time, because it combines history and traditions with the values of sharing decisions and participation and, together, subsidiarity, as Mr Vaccari well mentioned. The first forms of community management of the lands for agro-silvo-pastoral activities derive their origin from a thousand-year history of customs, which crystallize in the early Middle Ages and reach, almost intact, until today. It would, however, be a mistake to consider this custom as a marginal fact or a legacy of the past. I think it is very current, because it speaks of sustainability through the good use of the territory, that is, how to enjoy growth without affecting the heritage or, in economic terms, how to enjoy the interests without affecting the capital. It also introduces the theme of the role of the community and the active participation of its members in the choices and direct management, which is an increasingly felt theme in a historical era characterized by scarcity of resources. The community can and must be an ally of the institutions for their effective use, as a carrier of energy and also of skills, a capital that must be put to value and increasingly involved in the management of public affairs. All this is in some way linked to the more general theme of participation in the sharing of choices, of the need, more and more felt, not to reduce the commitment of the community to an act of delegation, but of an active and concrete participatory path, which is from my point of view a process of responsibility and of overall maturation of citizenship, an antidote to anti-politics and disengagement. I believe that the measure is important not only because for the first time it regulates from the regulatory point of view this custom, but also because it introduces in our legal system the notion of good practiced by the community: the active role of the community understood as the bearer of needs, that through collective property can be satisfied, but also with an active role for the careful and prudent care of collective goods and, therefore, for their valorization also in an economic key. In these years I have had many occasions of confrontation with the separate administrations of civic use (ASUC) of Trentino and with the association that represents them and that, on several occasions, has urged the approval of the provision. To them I owe a great thank you for the strong attachment they express every day to our territory and also for the synergy with which they work both within them, and in collaboration with all other national and alpine realities. The collective domains are distributed throughout the national sphere, although on the alpine arc they find their maximum extension. According to ISTAT data, 82 percent are located in the mountains, 16 percent in the hills and 2 percent in the plain. The Trentino is one of the territories with the most massive presence of collective property, with an extension that reaches 42 percent of the entire provincial territory, in this exceeded only by Abruzzo where it reaches 49 percent. Just to give an example of how important these realities have been in the past, I would like to remind you that the main public works of the Valley of Fiemme, including the hospital, have been realized precisely by the Magnificent community. The managing bodies of collective domains, even in the multiplicity of names by which they are distinguished, are attributable to three elements: the community, the land of collective enjoyment, an institutional purpose different from the individual interests of the individual natural persons who make up the community. It is only in certain cases that the collective assets are managed by an entity with legal personality. When this happens, this is formally the holder in relations with third parties of goods whose substantial property belongs to the associates and in respect of which it acts only as administrator. In the absence of an entity with private legal personality, the property is administered by the municipal administration and this is the most widespread situation in Italy, especially in the South and the islands. Collective domains are already recognised by the Constitution as a particular type of private property, with its own specific safeguards. In implementing the constitutional dictation, certain collective properties are already expressly recognized by the ordinary laws of the State. The conferral of a legal personality on all the various collective ownership assumptions that exist today in our country is the main objective of the measure that we are examining. The transition is fundamental to achieving better management of these goods, the production of higher incomes and, consequently, greater tax revenues, although it is evident that the agro-silvo-forestry heritage is much less important than it once was when it was vital for the survival of mountain communities. Collective property with legal personality will be able to use its assets more effectively, because they have the ability to effectively bind themselves with third parties. The granting of a legal personality directly to collective property, through the mechanisms outlined by the measure, will guarantee these benefits, allowing each collective domain to be able, through bodies defined by statute, to manage the goods in accordance with its destination bond, but having the possibility of an autonomous budget and an autonomous management capital, with which to force itself validly with third parties. Collectivity, needs, environment, sustainability, responsibility, community building: I want to think that the recognition of these special forms of "responsible autonomy" also reveals a first perception that Italy must give more confidence to the territories, must understand that giving the territories the responsibility to self-govern itself does not constitute a problem for the maintenance of the system, but vice versa, strengthens it and constitutes an opportunity to be exploited. Taking up the theme, I therefore believe that there are all the ingredients to positively greet this bill both for its overall cultural significance and for having finally given a regulatory framework to the sector. The reference to inalienability, incomparableness and indivisibility is fundamental, as is the role played for the protection of the environment and the landscape. I have retabled Amendment 3.4, with which I would also like to add the constraint of unsubscribability, as a guarantee that the right of civic use will not cease even in the presence of a suspension of the exercise of possession for natural, demographic, technical and economic reasons, since these are goods and rights that future generations of users also owe. I know that it may be redundant and legally, but it nevertheless strengthens the principle contained in the draft law and I hope that the rapporteur and the Government, whom I thank for being so sensitive to the Commission, will accept this request. Finally, I would like to thank all my colleagues who have worked on the measure, the presenter Pagliari, the rapporteurs Cucca and Vaccari, and who have carried out a very thorough and constructive work, as well as all the Commissioners. A thank you goes especially to all those who have preserved and handed down over time our agro-silvo-pastoral heritage and that of the values that are at its base. Thanks also to the ASUC of Trentino and South Tyrol and thanks to the National Council of Collective Property and its president Michele Filippini, who is here to attend the work. This measure is a further element in favour of agro-silvo-pastoral activities, especially those of the mountains, but it is also important for the territorial identity, to give value and substance to our agri-food and tourist offer. We therefore welcome the fact that the text, three years after its presentation, has finally reached the debate in this House. Its approval is an absolutely important fact and we really hope that we can have the final one before the end of the parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u22	Madam President, since we very much welcome the draft law we are debating today, I would like to refer to specific examples. Unfortunately, pre-existing circumstances are neglected in the country - in this case collective domains and civic uses - linked to traditions, ways of living and of leading and protecting the territory that have characterized the local communities for several centuries until today. An example of this is a fact of chronicle relating to the relationship between the Appennino Gualdese Agricultural Community and the company La Rocchetta for the exploitation of mineral waters, for which recourse has been made to the court and some illuminated pen, which writes in newspapers that always seek the gleaning in order to appear much more attractive in its articles, wrote that it is a scandal to be faced with a medieval entity that puts itself in front of the interests of a multinational that leads to work, and in which it has claims that it leads to court. I wonder where is the scandal in recognizing to communities, to people who have directed territories for centuries, the right to be able to sit at a table in order to choose together with the interlocutors - in the specific case also foreigners or multinationals or to large stakeholders of corporate interests - the destiny of their own lands and goods that weigh on them and that, if exploited, can produce profits and returns in those realities and not elsewhere. Madam President, I therefore consider this measure to be very important, because - as the rapporteur has rightly said - the issue of collective domains is all too often blurred, not precise or even with approximations and forgetfulness that then, emerging in the course of an administrative procedure, give rise to remarks and, therefore, appeals. It is, therefore, a good thing that a law defines the rights, duties and functions themselves of these important pre-existences that arise not from medieval legal cavities, but from the activities that people have carried out collectively and from the use that they have made of goods for centuries. I read directly from the text of the law - a very important fact - that are defined as the elements and collective domains, within which, for example, the sources of renewable resources to be exploited and used for the benefit of local communities and those entitled. To speak of a source of renewable resources means, therefore, not to crystallize a situation - as someone would have us believe, and as if we were in the Middle Ages - but to allow the exploitation, use and valorization of that heritage and of those goods, with the consideration that local communities cannot and must not be neglected or marginalized by the choices of exploitation. I am referring to those same local communities that have defended and handed down such goods from generation to generation, remembering - as the draft law in Article 3 (f) indicates - that water bodies are part of them, on which residents of the municipality or fraction exercise civic uses. Madam President, I believe that this is a more unique and rare case, because we are really making the most of it, recognizing the importance of local communities for what they are worth, of people and territories. We do not live in the Amazon forest, which is managed only by nature. We have lived in anthropized environments for millennia, where the anthropic relationship between people and the territory has shaped the same, giving us an extraordinary balance today. When a community asks to be respected, when a collective domain asks to be respected, its request must be considered and respected. It is good for this law to clarify this issue. It is a good thing that those who approach a territory consider communalities and collective domains as a constitutionally recognized, reliable, identifiable institutional interlocutor, with whom they can sit at the table and decide the destiny of a territory and a collective good. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u23	She's enlisted to speak Senator Filippin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u24	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, senators and senators, the purpose of this draft law - as all those who have spoken have already said - is to formally recognize collective domains, whatever they may be called. It was interesting the brief general discussion that took place, because it allowed us a journey into the history of our country, so long, so different, yet with an incredibly common history in its cultural and social development. In my territory, Cortina d'Ampezzo, there are the Ampezzo rules. The woods and pastures have been the collective property of the original community for centuries; a natural, cultural and economic heritage that now manages about 16,000 hectares of wood, with the cutting and sale of wood and naturalistic forestry of the forest heritage. On the Asiago Plateau, then, there are the neighborhoods. The neighborhood was the assembly, the union of the heads of families, of the original partners, that is, of the co-owners of the common goods, the owners of the undivided property of the woods of each individual colonel, that is, of a hamlet, with an autonomous organization governed by the neighborhood of all the heads of families. And only the neighborhood was able to decide whether to buy or sell goods, rent, grant levels and provide for the needs of its inhabitants. They are traditions dating back to time and on 29 June 1310 the Statute of the Spectabile Regency was defined, whose preamble exalted and sealed the spirit of solidarity: the good of the people is the good of the regency and the good of the regency is the good of the people. The collective domains are therefore assets destined, from the beginning, to satisfy the basic needs and interests of life and survival of the communities of inhabitants and, as such, are subject to a specific regime of unwillingness and protection, which has placed them, however, outside the regime of merchantability of the common law. In our Constitution, ownership of rights and property, of whatever nature they may be, is owned by a person determined as a holder. If the holder is public (the State or public body of any kind, territorial or non-territorial), the property shall be public. If the holder is private (natural person or legal person), the property is private. In the original collective properties, or collective domains, on the other hand, the assets or complexes of goods and rights belong to an original, non-derived, community or community of resident inhabitants, in accordance with ancient statutes, regulations and customs recognized by the earlier law. The property and rights do not belong individually to one or more individuals (natural persons or legal persons) but belong to the entire community of inhabitants settled and permanently organized in a given territory, not differentiated in its components, but constituting a unitary complex of subjects, goods and rights. In this proprietary form there is no direct link between the good and the holder, meaning for this a determined subject, both public and private, identified as a single entity and differentiated by all other individuals. The property or rights of collective property, those constituted therefore by the ancient agrosilvopastoral heritage managed by the respective ownership communities, belong to each individual and to all the members of the community or community of inhabitants. Being destined to satisfy the primary needs of the community, the ancient heritages are subject to a legal regime of unwillingness, even if it is derogable, and to a bond of destination, of protection and imprecribability that makes them very similar to the regime of the assets of the public property. In fact, because of the historical need to preserve its enjoyment by the whole community and to avoid their fragmentation by usurpers and privates, the collective properties are characterized by inalienability - they cannot be sold, except for particular exceptions - from indivisibility - are not subject to usucapion, or they cannot be acquired in property on the basis of the continued possession for a certain period of time - and have the perpetual agrosilvopastoral destination. All this constitutes the greatest difficulty for the recognition of the property of communities of inhabitants (collective domains) as constitutionally recognized and guaranteed property at the same level as public and private property. Hence the need for this bill, with which we want to recognize that collective domains, pursuant to Articles 2, 9, 42 (second paragraph) and 43 of the Constitution, are placed as neo-institutional subjects, in that they are responsible for the administration, both objective and subjective, of the civic heritage and, therefore, the responsibility for the protection and valorization of that whole of natural and anthropic resources present in civic property. The aim of the provisions contained in the bill is to ensure the active presence of collective property, to safeguard it, with a sum of positive effects on the territory, which have just been mentioned: the maintenance of the population as a garrison of the public, collective and private territory; the integration between the civic heritage and the resident families; the maintenance of the territory; the active conservation of the environment; the guarantee of an environmental mark; the cohesion of the population and the creation of cooperative behaviors in the economic, social and environmental fields. It is therefore extremely positive the normative framework that we give today to this history that - as it has been remembered - has millenarian tradition and concerns all our country. With the recognition of collective domains, however called, as the primary legal order of the original communities, and with the recognition of the right of use of collective domination, we give a right that concerns the usefulness of the fund, namely the exploitation of the domain reserved for the citizens of the municipality. We recognise to them the capacity of self-regulation, which therefore facilitates the exercise of rights at an individual level, with the right of access to an area and the right of withdrawal, and at a collective and administrative level, with the rights of management and exclusion from the use or tacit cooperation of individuals using resources, in compliance with the rules established by the managing body. There is also a reference to the competence of the State, which serves, however, to ensure that the laws that can issue the Regions recognize the collective structures and, therefore, do not disclaim the idea and the values of collective property, the absolutely peculiar way of the community to live the relationship between man and land, the customary discipline of land management by the community of owners, the protection of nature and the protection of the environment with modern activities designed and exercised by the communities on common properties for the purposes of the market. It is therefore an important framework that we today give to a story that our whole country has seen born. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u25	The general debate is closed. The speakers and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report. We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 1, on which an amendment has been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u26	Madam President, I withdraw Amendment No 1,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u27	We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 1. FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 2, on which amendments have been tabled, which I would ask the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u28	Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 2,100 and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u29	Madam President, I too, by accepting a proposal from the rapporteur, withdraw Amendment 2,101 and turn it into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u30	I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u31	Madam President, the opinion on the agenda is in favour, provided that the formula is used:
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u32	Madam President, the Government's opinion is in line with that expressed by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u33	I would ask Senators Ruta and Berger if they insist on voting on the agendas of the G2.100 and G2.101. RUTA (PD). Yes, Madam President, I insist on the vote. BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Yes, ma'am, I insist, too. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G2100 agenda. Verification of the quorum (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the discussion of draft law No. 968 I put to the vote the agenda G2.100, presented by Senators Ruta and Saggese. It's approved. I put to the vote the agenda G2.101, presented by Senator Berger and other senators. It's approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of Article 3, on which amendments have been tabled which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u34	Madam President, I am against Amendments 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6 and 3.8. Amendment 3,100 proposes a rewording which, moreover, is of little importance. In fact, it is proposed to add the word "if any" before the words "processes of assignment of land" defined as collective goods within the meaning of this Article and to expunge the words "common" or "expunge" before the words "exponential entities" because it is a useless repetition. The opinion on the amendment thus reworded is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u35	Madam President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u36	Does Senator De Petris accept the rewording of Amendment 3,100, proposed by the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u37	I accept that, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u40	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I withdraw Amendment 3.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u43	RUTA (PD). Madam President, I withdraw Amendments 3.6 and 3.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u44	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 3.3. FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). We call for simultaneous ballots to be carried out by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.4 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.5 tabled by Senator Piccoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.6 and 3.8 have been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.100 (text 2), tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Article 3 in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u47	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Madam President, there are traces of civic uses and collective domains of very ancient origin on the territory. We can remember our history, the history of many countries and our territories where, sometimes, due to the poor conditions and isolation proper to the life of the past, a particular form of collectivism had been created. The need for collaboration made the aggregates in some ways closed, almost jealous of their characteristics. Within them, however, the communities were firmly linked together in a sort of network of common solidarity, with relations of obligation and mutual rights, so that the community almost supported itself. This is how these institutions were created with almost publicist assets, because, in fact, their function was to provide a public service. We think of these institutions, therefore, as if they were a historical heritage when instead they are absolutely modern and current and intersect, in some respects, with the protection and enhancement of the territory and above all of the environmental and landscape heritage. In some ways there has been an evolution of the meaning and sense of collective property itself. Facilities such as parks and environmental niches guarantee a time-consuming use, where you enter at established times, like a tourist, to appropriate and live that heritage. In reality, with the very concept of collective domination we want to reach the possibility of living the environment in first person, to feel it own, so the approach to the valorization of the territory must not go through an almost museum system, as if it were possible to visit the park behind a glass. We have, therefore, a form of conscious landscape design, which is not a static entity but becomes a dynamic reality within which people live. And the people live the territory, their landscape, their environment, as living people and the relationship that is created between the territory and its inhabitants becomes the collective consciousness of the territory itself. This is where the concept of collective domination comes into play, which now seems to have a philosophical, almost metajuridical meaning. In fact, we are talking about something that presists the right and the Constitution, which is the history of our civilization, especially of some areas. Collective domains and civic uses are not, therefore, extinct historical relics. I am, however, something - as we said earlier - extremely topical. And - as can be seen from the speeches of my previous colleagues - they are realities that exist, structured and rooted in our territory. And in the article, albeit short, of this bill we want to give them an institutionalization and a definition, no matter how difficult it is to define our historical belonging. It is difficult, in fact, to define what was not born because it is provided for by law and is pre-existing to it. Hearing about collective property evokes - this yes - regiments that seem to belong to political systems that were talked about many years ago. Today it is a very different concept. When it is said that the environment is property of all, it does not mean that it is not of anyone; the problem of the collective entity, in fact, is that often, being of all, it has no masters or management. In this case, instead, we come to exploit these institutes to give a kind of planning to the territory and the environment, thus pursuing important objectives at a time such as what we are living in where there is a form of degeneration of some landscape contexts distorted by urbanization. That is why we are now trying to reappropriate special safeguards, because we realize that if we destroy the environment, we destroy ourselves. Collective domination must therefore have the objective of preserving the environment and the landscape itself, for a continuity of traditions, because we are the environment in which we are born and where we live. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] That's why we can have a full consciousness of the territory. The beauty of the institute is that it does not relegate landscape and environmental niches as if they were a sort of reserve, as could the hunting reserves. They are not environmental and cultural reserves, but they represent a connection, a continuous link between the community and the territory. There is a passage that I would like to emphasize - I think it is of particular significance - of those who wrote in this matter that the territory of the same dominion, in this collective case, is a school of democracy for the forms of management and use. It is a culture of nature protection, a school of economy in the field of existing civic heritage. [[Applause from Senator Volpi.]] Finally, it is an innovation, a study, a search for what can be cultural techniques for the defence of the environment. It is therefore a form of social aggregation of very high civic value, which strengthens what we have lost, unfortunately, for many years: civil solidarity, the simple relationship of neighborhood. This is how we can better structure the members of our communities, because we must save a community made up of people and territory. That is why the Lega Nord Group will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u50	PEGORER (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, the measure to our attention, which deals with the delicate and complex subject of collective domains, comes to the final vote after an important discussion in the relevant Commissions and concludes an iter started in March 2014. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, in addition to expressing a positive opinion on the draft law under consideration, considers it appropriate to highlight here certain issues which the text intends to pursue significantly. The document aims in its entirety to give certainty to subjective and collective legal situations with traits often not configurable in a certain way and, sometimes, already existing before the same state system. On the other hand, up to now the theme of collective domains has been characterized by the means of doctrinal elaborations in various historical periods and has been the subject of the jurisprudence in this matter. As is well known, collective domains are distinguished by the exercise of rights of enjoyment, use and use only, in order to preserve civic uses, also contributing to the same conservation of the environment and the landscape concerned. In this context, collective domains are responsible for the protection and valorization of all natural and human resources present in the civic property. Hence their importance and the need to finally reach a defined regulatory framework. The application of the provisions contained in the measure will certainly contribute - in our view - to achieving positive repercussions on the various territories concerned. From this point of view, in particular, the maintenance of the population as a garrison of the territory; the integration between the civic heritage and resident families and between the civic heritage and local enterprises; the maintenance of the territory and the active conservation of the environment and, last but not least, the guarantee of an environmental mark. The cohesion of the population concerned and the creation of cooperative economic, social and environmental behaviour are also promoted. In this regard, it should be noted that the measure recognises collective domains as the primary legal order of the original communities, to which the administration of the civic heritage belongs. It is therefore a situation characterized by an individual interest in the use of goods in accordance with their destination and, likewise, a collective interest represented in particular by the preservation of the goods themselves. It should also be noted in the matter of the competence of the State that the provisions to our attention define collective domains as stable components of the environmental system and, at the same time, territorial bases of historical institutions to safeguard cultural and natural heritage. In this regard, it should be recalled that the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Constitution expressly states that it protects the landscape and the historical and artistic heritage of the Nation. It should also be noted that collective goods are subject to inalienability, indivisibility and permanent destination. Finally, it should be noted that the provision clearly states that the principles of the law on this sensitive issue should then be applied to the Regions under special statute and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano in accordance with their respective statutes and implementing rules. In conclusion, Madam President, the provisions for our attention address the issues of this delicate institute with completeness, finally drawing a definite path. And for these reasons, the Article 1 Group - Democratic and progressive movement will vote in favour. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u51	We greet the young people and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo "Don Lorenzo Milani" by Ariano Irpino, in the province of Avellino, who are attending our works. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u54	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Madam President, the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this measure. I remember that collective domains are a historical, cultural, agricultural and pastoral heritage of our ante legem farming communities, before any law of any State, because it comes from our ancestors. By the way, this is the legacy of a socialist agricultural culture of which we are obviously proud. The collective domain measure finally arrives in this House, after a work of the Joint Justice and Environment Commissions which lasted a little too long (three years) and aims to give an institutional status and therefore a full legal recognition to the land that is the subject of common enjoyment. In our opinion, something more should have been done, because collective domains are not only land, but all forms of law. And it is not true that our Constitution does not recognize them, because the constituent fathers had them well present: in Articles 42, first paragraph, and 43, it is said that the properties are public or private, but they also guarantee the properties of the institutions and collective domains are to all intents and purposes. Article 43 also refers to complex assets and assets, which are alternative forms of ownership. The status of civis romanus, in fact, allowed the individual to act also in court and to use those collective domains, understood as goods and rights, both for himself and for the community. This was the first true form of aggregation, cultural and historical-political, socialist, that speaks to us of a community that tried to promote the slogan "the union makes the force," because at that moment it was necessary to have the solidarity of a collective in order to overcome the crises, the famines and the epidemics that struck the various communities, especially agricultural to which, we remember, in 1952, with Law No 991 in favour of the mountain territories, the legislator had the opportunity to give legal status. 11:26 a.m. (Follow Barani). The impact of the bill will therefore certainly be positive, as it will allow a number of things to be done especially to the original communities - which are the ones we are talking about here - and therefore to those who presided over the goods. In the land from which I come, the Lunigiana, there are collective properties and domains on marble quarries and their cultivation. The bill will allow these original communities to undertake entrepreneurial activities, as well as the valorization of the territory, both from the economic point of view and from the enjoyment of the territory itself. Moreover, in a phase of crisis such as the one we are experiencing and in which the light is not yet seen at the end of the tunnel, the attempt to relaunch sectors of activity that have gone down or downhill, this certainly poses as a decisive part in the perspective of a recovery as wide as possible that incentives the manufacture, the craftsmanship and, more generally, the tertiary sector of our economy, which are directly affected by these collective domains. Their abandonment, in fact, in addition to the loss of these intrinsic values well known to the original societies and communities, also leads to environmental degradation, hydrogeological failure and impoverishment of the territory. In the age of digitalization that sees society and above all the younger people increasingly oriented towards activities with a strong technological emphasis - from the playful to the working ones - a regulatory measure such as the one under consideration has a value all the stronger if it is inserted and grafted into a more local and rural structure of communities even closed. It is not a question of trying a sort of return to the past, but of enhancing the roots of our society and our national community, values, ideas and activities that have led us through decades as far as we are today and that, therefore, cannot now be forgotten and become marginal because they would risk disappearing. A rediscovered exaltation of the country's vocations, which have been the driving force behind contemporary society, will only produce positive fruits in a multitude of points of view. Love and respect for our territories must be at the heart of an incisive action that politics and Parliament should carry out every day with a strong head and the measure goes in this direction. The agro-silvo-pastoral heritage, considered by the statutes of our ancestors, by customs, by previous law, by what is included by the law on the mountain, which contemplates the institute of collective property where everyone, for himself and the others, intervenes, is a form of mutual assistance, which goes in the direction of an agricultural cultural heritage, community, social and socialist but also entrepreneurial, precisely because of the characteristic of mutual assistance, for a form of society that could integrate itself, make of necessity virtue and, in times of crisis, put together the forces. The slogan that union makes strength is demonstrated precisely by these collective domains. Announcement, therefore, the favorable vote of the ALA Group - Civic Choice for the Liberal and Popular Constitutional. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u57	PANIZE (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE, which recognises and values the historical and current role of collective property. We believe that this measure is important, not only because, for the first time, it regulates this practice completely from the regulatory point of view, but also because it introduces into our legal system the notion of good practiced by the community. I greatly appreciated almost all the passionate speeches of the rapporteurs, colleagues and colleagues, who showed a deep knowledge of the subject and also a particular sensitivity and respect. They had a perception of the originality and also of the importance of this custom, but precisely because I appreciated these interventions - as I have already said in general discussion - I want to think that the recognition of these special forms of responsible autonomy also reveals a first perception that Italy must give greater confidence to the territories and understand that giving the territories the responsibility to self-govern itself does not constitute a problem for the maintenance of the system, but an opportunity to be exploited to improve our country. I thank again all my colleagues who have worked on the measure, also with passion as well as with competence, from the presenter Pagliari to the speakers Cucca and Vaccari, and the representatives of the Government. The adoption of the bill is an absolutely important fact and we really hope to have, after several years now, the definitive approval before the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u60	MARINELLO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I will make a very brief speech because I ask for permission to deliver the written text of the speech. Announcement of the favorable vote of the Alternative Popular Group. The vote is convinced for a reason: the bill deals with a matter of extreme importance, the whole matter of collective domains, which originates from a premodern age, but which continues to live its own life in different areas of the country and with different incidences regarding the areas of the country in which these collective domains have developed. Obviously it will have a value in the mountain areas and another in the areas with a prevalent forest direction and I realize probably that in the urbanized areas the interest will be less. However, precisely because of the characteristics that I have already explained in the introduction of my speech, we are absolutely convinced that normalizing this matter represents not only a moment of regularity and objectivity that will help to give certainties, but above all a moment of absolute positivity towards an ancient culture and history, in particular in the protection of the environment and the most marginal areas of the country. I would like to point out that Law No 97 of 1994 laying down provisions on upland areas recognised collective ownership in Article 3 and gave it a general value. It is clear that the rule had to be updated and, in order to avoid confusion or difficulties of interpretation, rendered of general interest. I believe that Parliament is doing a good job today by approving this measure, in the hope that the other branch of Parliament, the House of Members, will also be able to appreciate it positively. As I have already said, I would ask the Presidency to allow me to attach the full text of my explanation of vote to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u61	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u64	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, today we have a draft law that we must not underestimate, because we think it is very important. It is a bill that perhaps someone can define from the ancient flavor and to someone may appear, externally, as referring to a distant past. On the other hand, we consider this step to be absolutely fundamental for the full recognition of the value of collective property and we believe it to be extremely modern and current. The traces of the importance of this measure are to be found in our own Constitution, as has been said several times. I would like to recall Article 9 of our Constitution: in fact, I believe that the projection of this measure in current and modern times, so the very idea and conception of collective domains and collective property as an important instrument for our future, in our opinion, must be anchored in the meaning and importance of Article 9 of our Constitution. It is in fact evident to all that what was born at the dawn of our civilization, civic uses, collective domains and properties, as one of the means that characterized the formation of village communities and municipalities themselves, today finds new foundation in the absolute and indispensable necessity of the conservation of our territory and its protection: the need, precisely, to protect those goods that have been tried to preserve and those properties, which were to represent common goods and rights of common enjoyment, as a source of growth and well-being for the community. I would also like to say that, to reflect, precisely the recognition of collective domains, of collective property, one can project even more in the same doctrine, which is important not only in our country, but also in the elaboration of the Constitutions that for a certain period have also been very significant in the recent history of countries such as those of Latin America. I am referring to the whole idea of the elaboration of common goods that is also present in our country, but that from the point of view of legal and constitutional elaboration is less strong. In reality we can project the whole history, including legal, and the discussion in doctrine on collective property and civic uses in the more in-depth reflection on the very idea of common goods. I say that in my opinion this is very attached to the implementation of Article 9 because the fundamental aim is the conservation and protection of the territory as a fundamental asset, as a basic resource also for the progress and development of the communities. It was necessary to elaborate the measure in question, to give full legal recognition and also to place collective domains as neo-institutional subjects (with all that this entails from the point of view of the administration), because in recent years there have been many disputes and in many territories they have represented injuries to the rights of the communities and also aggression to these assets. The collective domains are in some ways similar to state property, even if, I return to repeat, they are born and have a different characterization, and they are in our opinion absolutely fundamental for the conservation of the territory, because they are one of the fundamental elements of the national natural heritage: let us think for example of the woods or water bodies. From this point of view, perhaps something more could be done and some additional profiles added, also from the point of view of the institute, to give an even higher guarantee, but for us the inalienability and inusucapibility are fundamental elements that are strongly reaffirmed. I would like to mention, among other things, the fact that in so many of these collective properties and territories there are also constraints of a landscape nature, which, however, alone have not been sufficient to guarantee their protection. We have also tabled an amendment which has been reworded and which has been approved by this House and which indicates a possibility of use for young farmers to testify that this heritage is still very important for local economies. It is therefore a matter of preserving, preserving and enhancing but, at the same time, these forms of collective property are also fundamental in order to be able to preserve and help local economies. For a long time there has been a long tendency (which we hope is over) to ensure that public policies, even rash in some ways, would move towards an idea of transfer to private individuals even of territories burdened by civic uses. This bill, on the other hand, carries out an operation that allows to confirm the value for the communities to preserve these territories and to guarantee, precisely, their enjoyment for the citizens themselves. It is important, in my opinion, that Article 1, which recognises collective domains, is absolutely fundamental to Article 3 and, in particular, to the regulation of the legal system. For all these reasons, the Senators of the Italian Left are very much in favour of this measure and will therefore vote in favour. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u67	FLORIS (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under consideration, which, once and for all - and I would like to stress this - is a parliamentary initiative, deals with a subject which is very much felt and present in various realities of the Italian territory, especially of the great and vast reality of the Italian province: that of collective domains. The text approved in the Commission, which the Forza Italia Group has also actively helped, through its amendments, to hesitate, appears to be a comprehensive text that tackles in a comprehensive way the various legal and practical problems related to the goods of collective enjoyment. These represent, first of all, an authentic natural wealth but also a cultural and economic heritage of our country. The Senate comes to launch this new discipline after about 90 years, because the provisions that so far have governed the matter date back to 1927, for those that are the primary norms, and to 1928, for those that are the implementing regulations and the first provisions. Therefore, it seems necessary to hesitate this bill and it should be noted, precisely, that the use of collective domains is a use that is handed down from generation to generation. It is linked to the interests of large communities, especially in certain areas, such as mountain areas. In many realities of our mountain, just to give a concrete example, woods are used, timber is cut and funds are used for the valorization of the whole community. In other places the collective domains are used for the common grazing of the livestock of many breeders who, in addition to developing our agricultural economy, constitute a punctual garrison of the territory also from a hydrogeological point of view. But just as important is the value of the conservation of the different natural species, especially biodiversity, found in large territories, even for thousands of hectares of land. In fact, I would like to remind you that the collective property represents about 3.6 percent of the Italian territory and that it consists of more than 11,000 square kilometers. The same discourse concerns the dimensions: there are about 2,500 subjects or bodies responsible for the management of such a vast and varied territory. Often entire mountains and entire horizons are enclosed in collective properties and guarded by the local populations, with the awareness that from those places comes their past but proceeds, for those places, also their future. Collective goods are linked to a series of values and above all to the idea of subsidiarity through which the participatory management of the territories is carried out in an effective and positive way. Through collective property we realize the commitment of many people who live the territory and help to manage what is an authentic common heritage: their own land. Through this shared heritage we can reach and achieve various institutional goals that, as interests of our own community, always come before the interests of individuals. That's why that of collective domains is an Italian cultural heritage to be preserved, to be valued, to be left as a legacy to future generations through an updated and coherent regulatory complex. In short, a capital to be passed on to future generations, because many generations have handed it down to us. This is, moreover, a law much awaited by the administrators of the government and civic uses, as well as of family communions, institutes that are real heirs of the first democracies of the villages. We are therefore faced with provisions of absolute common sense, written well also in legal terms, and in this the joint examination of the Environment Commission with the Senate Justice Commission has proved an appropriate choice, having improved the initial text, already good, presented by Senator Pagliari. Among other things, it should be remembered that the individual regions are left the possibility to regulate the cases not provided for by this law, which represents a real framework law and of course is left to the collective domain the possibility to establish the rules for the use of the State property, thus ending also the numerous disputes between the State and the Regions. Just as the regime of inalienability remains untouchable, as the one who preceded me well said, of indivisibility, of inusucapibilità and of the perpetual agro-silvo-pastoral destination of the land. Finally, I would like to point out that there had already been a great deal of sensitivity among parliamentarians from all sides, which had led to the creation of even a parliamentary intergroup called "Friends of collective ownership". In short, for the reasons set out above, this is a bill that certainly finds the favorable vote of the Group of Forza Italia and of which we also hope the immediate realization. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u70	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking only to announce the 5 Star Movement Group's vote in favour of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u73	Mr Pagliari (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteurs, the Presidents of the Environment and Justice Commissions and the President of the Budget Commission, for this measure has been firm on an issue linked to a position taken by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, and of course I thank all the Members of the Commission. I believe, however, that the personal satisfaction of seeing a draft law put forward must leave a step in the right direction, which has already taken place in this House, of the significance and importance that this bill has in relation to the reality that governs collective property, which is a reality which, even in the current situation, is all but insignificant. According to ISTAT, in 2010, as part of the census of agriculture, collective ownership throughout the national territory was 9.77 percent, i.e. 1,668 million hectares compared to the total 17 million hectares that were at that time cultivated. As has been said, collective domains are more than a thousand-year-old reality. There is news, already in the Table of Polcevera of 117 BC, of the Senate of Rome that decides a controversy on the assets of a Ligurian community. That of collective domains is a reality that has crossed Italian history with extreme importance, reaching to still have a great diffusion today. In fact, it seems to me that basically in almost all regional realities there are collective properties that are otherwise known. Of course, these are different extensions, depending on the different history of the individual regions, but the presence is widespread throughout the territory, testifying to what has been the social value of these collective domains, of which the function still characterizes today. I believe that today it can be said that collective domains represent a very significant and important form of horizontal subsidiarity, because in many territories they realize the presence in the field of cultivation of territories and agro-silvo-pastoral activity, ensuring that the land is maintained, cultivated and managed and not abandoned to their destiny. As already mentioned, the draft law in question has the main function of standardizing the legal regime of collective property that today in Italy, due to different histories and traditions, had two different characterizations. There were, in fact, collective property that had legal personality and collective property that were deprived of it. The draft law under consideration guarantees the recognition of legal personality to all collective domains, and this creates a perspective of a legal order that is not only formal but also substantial, because it guarantees a better definition of the relationships between collective domains and also between territorial authorities, from regions to municipalities. I believe that the assessments made explain the reasons why the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the bill, which combines the recognition of a tradition with the recognition of a reality that is still relevant and very important. In this way we witness a sensitivity to themes that do not belong to the chronicle - I am referring to the most common themes, on which there is a greater knowledge - but that do not for this reason have their relevance in terms of the rights and the social and economic reality of the territories, especially the disadvantaged ones. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u74	We shall therefore proceed to the vote. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u75	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2770. The rapporteur, Senator Calderoli, who is engaged in other tasks, does not ask for permission to carry out the oral report and refers to the text of the written report, which will be published in the annex to today's report. If all colleagues are cooperative, we will soon finish examining the measure. Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u76	Mr President, I will make a single speech in the explanation of vote and, therefore, give up speaking in a general debate. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u77	The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 1. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 2. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Rule 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u80	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, the one to which the community of Torre de' Busi aspires, with the mayor Eleonora Ninkovic, who heads the municipal administration, is not so much to abandon the Province of Lecco, after twenty-five years of belonging, but to return to the large orobic house, to the territory of Bergamo, rich in history, traditions and where cultural identity is felt and profound. Torre de' Busi, a small municipality of about 2,000 inhabitants, located in the Upper Val San Martino, against the popular will, in 1992, had underwent the aggregation to the then constituted province of Lecco, but now, as attested also by the Lombardy Region, it strongly claims its belonging to the province of Bergamo on the basis of both a historical and cultural continuity with the provincial territory of Bergamo, and of a continuity represented by the road infrastructure network and the multiplicity of services under management associated with the Municipalities of the same Province. In Torre de' Busi, which extends up to the pass of the hamlet of Valcava, the local language spoken is still Bergamasco, the church has never ceased to belong to the Curia of Bergamo, the two alpine groups present, that of Torre de' Busi and that of the hamlet of Sogno, have never stopped belonging to the glorious section of the National Alpine Association (ANA) of Bergamo. The Region, led by Governor Maroni, has already recognized the added value that the Municipality of Torre de' Busi would acquire with its membership to the Orobic Province in terms of tourist structures and activities, but above all for services. The Municipality of Torrebusino has already completed all the procedures provided for in the current legislation implementing Article 133, first paragraph, of the Constitution, which provides that the change of the provincial districts is established by law of the Republic, at the initiative of the Municipalities, heard the same Region. I have previously emphasized how Torre de' Busi, in 1992, had undergone the aggregation to the then constituted Province of Lecco. In fact, in the previous year - 1991 - when the procedure for the constitution of the Province of Lecco was under way, to be formed with 84 Comaschi municipalities and six Bergamos, an advisory referendum recorded 76 percent of the preferences of the towerbusines opposed to the detachment from the Province of Bergamo. Since last year, however, in the greatest uncertainty created around the hypothesis of redesign of the vast areas connected to the prediction of elimination of the Provinces contained in the constitutional reform, fortunately rejected by the Italians, the popular and political initiatives have intensified, which have manifested the clear will of the citizens of this small reality to be reunited to the territory of the Orobic Province. Composed of several volunteers, young and determined, the Voluntary Committee for the protection of the territory of Torre de' Busi was also established, which started a collection of signatures aimed at the presentation of a popular petition for the passage of the municipality from the provincial district of Lecco to that of Bergamo. The petition, filed in July 2016, in a few weeks was signed by 53% of voters with the right to vote; the absolute majority, exactly 918 citizens and citizens. At the same time, in the same month, the municipal administration initiated the procedures provided for by Regional Law n. 29 of 2006 transmitting to the Lombardy Region and the Provinces concerned, as well as to the Presidents of the Chambers and the President of the Council, the resolution unanimously approved by the City Council on 28 July by which the mayor and his Junta were invited to intervene with the Region in order to accept the address expressed by the population. As already mentioned, the Lombardy Region has already carried out the preliminary investigation planned for its own competence and the Lombardy Regional Council, at its meeting on 21 February, approving the proposal of President Maroni, decided unanimously to express a favourable opinion on the request of the municipality of Torre de' Busi to join the province of Bergamo, as well as to transmit the deliberations to the Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic. That was another day of celebration that sanctioned the victory of the citizens. The present bill, at my first signature, therefore proposes to regulate the legitimate expectation of the citizens of the municipality of Torre de' Busi, granting them the passage to the province of Bergamo, also taking into account, as already mentioned, the historical-cultural and territorial continuity already detected by all the competent territorial authorities. Today's is an important stage in a path that has always had my support from the beginning. In fact, I participated in almost all public meetings organized by the mayor and the committee and I was present at the historic city council where unanimously voted for the passage to Bergamo. Of the six municipalities of the San Martino Valley torn in Bergamo in 1992, the first one is on his way home. Many citizens hope that in a period not too long also Calolziocorte, Carenno, Erve, Monte Marenzo and Vercurago, that is the other five municipalities torn from the orobic land, can return home. For this purpose, the work will continue and the other committee born for the purpose called Valle San Martino con Bergamo will collect the consent. I begin by expressing my thanks to all my colleagues from the Northern League Group and to the various Lombard senators from various political groups who, in a bipartisan spirit, wanted to sign the bill. A special thanks goes to you, Senator Roberto Calderoli, rapporteur of the measure, and to the President of the First Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Torrisi, for allowing the rapid calendarization of the draft law and having quickly dismissed it from the Commission to bring it to the Chamber today, demonstrating an uncommon efficiency that is apparent in the institutions and in particular in the Senate of the Republic. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the measure will be able to reach the maximum consensus in this House. It would be an extraordinary example of recognition and respect for the will of the people. The hope, of course, is that the House of Deputies will also be able to make its parliamentary passage quickly, without any change, thus giving effect to the law. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u81	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u83	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, as you know, we are for the self-determination of the peoples and therefore, of course, also of the municipalities. I take the floor to declare our vote in favour of this measure. I hope that the next measure on which, on the other hand, I seem to be less favourable, will also be welcomed. I therefore declare my Group's vote in favour of the passage of the municipality of Torre de' Busi to the province of Bergamo. I hope - and I repeat - that the next measure will see as many positive opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u86	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we too have a position in which this measure is fully shared. We would like to point out how it would be necessary to deepen what happened in 1992, since now Senator Arrigoni tells us that five other municipalities in the San Martino valley are engaged in the front line to follow what probably - if the Chamber will agree - will touch the Municipality of Torre de' Busi. Those who use the State to redesign the boundaries of the Province in function of clientele should have their hands cut off, at least so they taught once. The fact, then, that 53% of the members of the electoral roll immediately signed the popular petition (because it all ended within a few weeks) makes it clear that certain operations were born, even in a past not too distant in time, only and only from party-client demands. Let us take into account, as Senator De Petris rightly said, the popular sovereignty and cultural identity of human groups. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u87	Senator Morra, the curiosity arises above all from the fact that if in 1991 there was a referendum in which the citizens with a plebiscite expressed themselves so that the Municipality of Torre de' Busi remained in the Province of Bergamo it is not clear why immediately after it was annexed to the Province of Lecco. If we consider the fact that we voted in 1992 and the movement of a municipality from one constituency to another, perhaps we can understand the reason for certain movements by the municipalities. [[Applause from Senator Crosio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u90	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the Forza Italia Group will vote in favour of this bill. As has been said, the great majority of the citizens of Torre de' Busi had already expressed themselves for belonging to the Province of Bergamo and not to the Province of Lecco. Incrediblely, at the time it was decided to go against this decision; this is wrong in all circumstances, even more so after the voters were consulted. Unfortunately, because of the Delrio law this will take place in the following way: the citizens of Torre de' Busi, instead of being able to vote for the elections of the Province of Lecco, will not be able to vote for the elections of the Province of Bergamo, but at least, through their representatives, they will be able to participate in some way in determining the territorial policies. We also hope that the Provinces in general, of Bergamo, of Lecco and all the others, have the resources because if the saving on the Provinces is no longer to give the minimum and indispensable resources to do the maintenance of the provincial roads - which is something you see immediately - or on the schools, which depend on the Province, it is not a matter of abolishing or not Provinces, Regions or Municipalities, but it is a matter of not giving the necessary to the local authorities to survive, even if it is masking it with the fact that no one knows the President of the Province anymore because he has not been elected by the citizens (and very few know his identity), then you can go second. All the citizens see the provincial roads dissected, perhaps beautiful roads of plain alone without lateral access and with the speed limit of 30 per hour because of the holes. It must be remembered for all the Provinces of Italy. At least the Municipality of Torre de' Busi will be in the Province of its own choice, to which its tradition and culture belong. Today we are dealing with problems that have been caused in a very distant past. [[Senator Razzi's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u93	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, I rise to confirm the Democratic Party Group's vote in favour of this measure, which we shared in the Lombardy Region and continue to share. It is clear to me that in the face of a popular will that has been expressed several times, first by a referendum and, recently, by collecting the signatures of the majority of voters (an effort that demonstrates a significant popular will), our vote can only be favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u94	We shall therefore proceed to the vote. MARTELLI (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). In fourteen minutes the law was passed: cooked and eaten!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u95	We greet a delegation of regional presidents of Sicilian volunteering, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u98	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, it is certainly one of the last few times that I have spoken to you on this occasion. I am here to beg, as a monoid of the Senate, to whom of you is in power, to whomever of you has the capacity, to have the so-called caregiver law passed by Parliament. We all know that it is only a political issue, which depends on the will of a few. It's been four years now and I've seen the worst things done in here. I need you. Who can take charge of these women and women, who do not ask for privileges, but the recognition of their rights: the right to rest, to health and to existential dignity. God knows how much energy I've put on the field, all my skills and strength. We know that life is not the same for everyone, but those of you who have taken power today have a duty to act and give these women dignity, health and rest. It is certainly the past of each of us, not the future. Act now. Europe also asks you to do so. Act now because we could all become caregivers. Act now because we could all become disabled. Act now because they have been waiting for you for thirty years. Act now because there is no more time here. In addition to thinking about your relocation, think about this too. It would be another legislature, after thirty years, for them to be empty. You've been asked for these awards for 30 years. I really don't know what to do in my legitimate way anymore. I beg you, who can give them a voice? Who can, do it. Who can, give a noble meaning to this legislature, for me first, only and last. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Art.1-MDP.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u100	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u101	BOCCHINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to remind the House of Professor Giovanni Fabrizio Bignami, who died suddenly last Thursday at the age of seventy-three years, astrophysicist, ordinary professor of astronomy at the University of Pavia, former president and scientific director of the Italian Space Agency, former president of the National Institute of Astrophysics (INAF), was also director of the Centre d'Étude Spatial des Rayonnements in Toulouse, one of the most important space centres in France, and president of the World Committee for Space Research, author of countless scientific publications, he was at the head of the team that identified the first star of neutrons without radio emission, universally known as the Milanese dialect, which he himself gave her, "Geminga" precisely because of her elusivity. For colleagues and friends, he was, simply, Nanni, and so today I want to remember him. I had the honour of meeting Nanni about twenty-five years ago, first through his scientific articles on neutron stars, for me an inspiration for my activity as a young scientist, then a presence at scientific congresses and as chairman of my agency, the INAF precisely. I then approached his books of scientific dissemination and his innumerable television passages, which made him familiar to the general public, for example those alongside Piero Angela in "Superquark". Nanni had his style - original, stubborn, rigorous and refined - and a perfect aplomb: it was his perfect incarnation of professional and human integrity to distinguish him. Nanni scientist, Nanni president, Nanni spreader: he could be all this in one great man. Recently we have seen ourselves even more: we have approached the positions for public research, its many contributions on the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Ireland, the Sun 24 ORE, the Science of the Republic of the Republic of the Republic of Ireland and the drafting of a bill that we have strongly wanted - him, me and many others - on the Interministerial Committee for Research and the National Agency for Research. Among the many things he was interested in, in fact, there was also the realization of the French National Research Agency, which we have inspired for the drafting of the bill. We worked together on this project until the day I deposited it in the Senate on January 12th. I do not know if this bill will ever be scheduled or discussed (and it would be a nice gesture in his memory if this happened); if it ever is, it will of course be merged with the others on the same subject (for example, there is another of Senator Di Giorgi) and modified by Parliament, as it should be. Whatever the iter, however, I would like to keep to the acts that from now on the Senate Act 2431 of the XVII Legislature will be remembered as the Nanni-Bignami law, because it is to him that I want to devote it entirely, to a great astrophysicist and a great colleague, who has brought a lot of stars to Italy and beyond. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and Art.1-MDP. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u102	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u103	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u104	MINEO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I know that in this House issues relating to disputes in order to defend work or to affirm the dignity of those who are forced to work under precarious conditions are not much listened to or go into fashion. I would ask you, however, for a moment of attention, if only for the many times in which I have heard about investments in intelligence, intellectual work and support for research and innovation. The dispute that I would like to brief you on is that of the ISPRA (Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research), which has been in employment for several days now in Rome, for the dismissal of 100 precarious workers. They are all overqualified precarious, as engineers, and people who worked in a public body in the general interest of the country. They are fired for the simple reason that 13 million euros have been cut: it is useless to talk about stabilization of the precarious as Minister Madia does when he takes away funds, because in doing so, of course, this is the end. Not only that: the workers of ISPRA were literally furious when they discovered that 400 million euros of public money will go to IIT (Italian Institute of Technology), that private institute you have heard of in this House, dear senators, by Senator Cattaneo, to whom governments entrust public funds and which then manages them to more or less private friends. So I ask you: what future can a country have that does not defend its researchers? Is it possible that the Pope's words will only be taken up in this Chamber for polemic purposes? Of the intervention that the Pontiff did in Genoa, the only thing he thought to remember here is that work is needed and not aid, so the five stars are wrong; but the Pope also said that precarious work takes away the dignity of the individual. Well, you have qualified engineers who do the precarious and then are thrown away exactly like a waste (just this term used Pope Francis). [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]] I conclude because I don't want to harass you so much and the question is very simple: where does Italy go, if it continues with this optimism of facade, that neglects the best intellectual resources of the country and that has characterized the last two governments, so to speak? I want to give you a figure: today there is someone who says that the occupation has grown and the jobs act has worked. The Governor of the Bank of Italy - not a famous extremist or a journalist who shoots sentences - said that, if we continue this way, maybe we will recover the level of income before crisis - so that of 2007, which was not satisfactory - only in 2025. Any one of you who has any news of economic issues knows that a negative cycle so long, eighteen years, had never been seen. Italy falls apart from such a thing if investments and, above all, those in research and development are not relaunched. If you do not defend the best intellectual energies in the country there will be no future. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u105	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u107	PADUA (PD). Mr President, I rise to draw attention to what is happening in these days in Vittoria, in the province of Ragusa. At the permanent garrison established on the initiative of some territorial associations from the beginning of January in Piazza Gramsci, some women began from 18 May - today we are to 31 May and, therefore, several days have passed - a hunger strike to protest against the scourge of judicial auctions. The reason for this form of democratic protest is very simple and the case of Mrs Rosetta, who ended up in the hospital after the ninth day of hunger strike, but then immediately returned to protest, is striking: her house was sold at auction five months ago for 27,000 euros despite having a value of 200,000. Now the lady risks losing with an offer of 70,000 euros also her farm, whose value is little less than 400,000 euros, due to a debt of about 80,000 euros. The result, as is the case in cases such as this where the sale of the goods undergoes an excessive depreciation by reaching figures absolutely below any market value, is that the ownership of its assets is lost without satisfying, however, the creditors. The only advantage deriving from this process, therefore, is for speculators, in search of business. The women in protest arrived, as I said earlier, on the fourteenth day of hunger strike. If all this is combined with the great heat that in these days is hitting our country and, in particular, Sicily, we understand the consequences on the health of these people who, despite everything, give themselves the change for this relay because they want to keep the spotlight on. We therefore absolutely need a signal of listening and countertrend with respect to the current trend. In recent years, due to the economic crisis that has caused significant credit difficulties, there has been a significant increase in real estate executive procedures and the Government, with Decree-Law No 83 of 2015, has intervened in the procedures of real estate execution. However, in some areas of Sicily, as in the Iblea Province, there is still a real social emergency that concerns the sales of real estate at auction and there is a need to operate a new and more incisive intervention, to ensure a process that balances and meets the best interests and rights of the parties involved, contrasting the excessive and intolerable lower prices applied to real estate subject to executive procedures. I am promoting an appeal: we could begin the discussion of a bill, the Act of the Senate 2149, which I presented in December 2015, precisely to counter the use of this deplorable race to the bottom in judicial auctions. There is a proposal: to establish a limit, set at 40% of the value of the property determined in accordance with Article 568 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which cannot under any circumstances be exceeded. This avoids the sale of the goods as a result of the reductions provided by the same code and, consequently, the debtors are guaranteed to lose the properties of their property for prices significantly reduced compared to the real market value. Moreover, this roof should at the same time avoid the possibility of speculative operations being carried out, i.e. the misrepresentation of the law carried out through agreements between professional operators in order to desert the auctions until the reductions make the price laughable. In short, a balance must be struck between the rights of the executed debtors and those of their creditors through the insurance of a positive outcome of the possible forced sale, in order to ensure to the creditors the possibility to recover at least for the majority of their credit and to avoid, at the same time, for the debtors, the sale of their real estate. We need a concrete gesture, so that the rights and claims of the women of Victoria, as well as those of the other associations on the territory that have made themselves spokesperson for this battle, do not fall into the void of indifference. [[Applause from Senators Mattesini and Orrù.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-31-LEG17-Senato-sed-833.ana.u108	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 12.30 a.m.
