ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.35 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 27 November.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u4	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: "Rome, 4 December 2017 Mr President, I inform you that the President of the Republic, with his own decree adopted today on my proposal, has accepted the resignations resigned by sen. Angela D'ONGHIA from the post of State Secretary for Education, University and Research. F.to Paolo Gentiloni.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u10	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, we, here in the Senate today, remember Enzo Bettiza, senator of the 7th legislature, but we know that in reality we owe him much more than being our fellow senator. His years as a senator, as well as those as a Member of the European Parliament, are only two phases, although very important, of his formidable life and of his extraordinary professional, cultural and political career. He has always lived his human adventure with a very personal mix of strong civil commitment and lightness of ways, having at the center the crafts of the journalist and the writer, who were the profession that gave his life that character that he liked, but which at the end served him as a sort of intellectual motor for his cultural and political interests. Politically, he described himself as a liberal and Labour "lib-lab," and in fact in the Italian Senate he was senator for the Liberal Party, but then, in the European Parliament, he had passed to the Socialist Party. He was a public man, not only in the sense that he has never hidden his political ideas, but also because of the realism and topicality of his geopolitical analyses, because of the tenacity with which he has always kept himself away from demagogy and opportunism, for having always refused to be on the side of both those who wanted everything immediately, and of the professionals of defeatist pessimism. In greeting with affection his wife Laura, the children and friends who are following our works from the gallery, I would like to remind you that I met Enzo Bettiza in the mid-seventies of the last century. We immediately developed a strong sympathy that soon became a solid friendship, that has never been lost throughout our lives and for many years we met often, but then we did so different and challenging jobs that for even long periods did not make us meet and when, after these intervals, we happened to see each other or even just to hear on the phone, as in recent times, we immediately met. We could have had different opinions, but in our friendship with Enzo Bettiza there was always a lot of respect, we understood each other on the fly, perhaps because of a natural affinity that I have always considered very precious. Enzo was a brilliant, sharp and very quick conversationalist in jokes. In the conversation he defended with sword all his opinions and occasionally let himself go to intellectual provocation, but he was an intellectually honest person, who knew how to recognize the reasons of his interlocutors. His courtesy and elegance were not to be deceived, because in the big issues he had a strong character and was certainly not accommodating. With Enzo Bettiza you had to be careful: if you were wrong a judgment or you lost the thread of speech, he would stab you mercilessly. I always thought that in Bettiza and in its public dimension they lived together two characters that are usually excluded naturally: on the one hand it always seemed very realistic, able to read the Italian and international facts for what they were, avoiding castles in the air and dangerous fantasies, but at the same time it was evident its tension to want to change reality, to want to correct it in its blackest points. In short, he was a complete man and, as such, pragmatic and dreaming together. He was born in Split, in a rich family of Dalmatian industrialists, who at the end of World War II the titoist regime expropriated everything he had and from that moment his life changed radically. He ended up in a refugee camp in Puglia, from which he soon escaped, and to survive twenty years he made smugglers, the seller of books in installments, the poker player, the seller of cigarettes on trains. His story was marked by that time and by those facts. He had known on his skin the real socialism, even that, also ruthless, of a country like Yugoslavia that was then considered not aligned. The terrible youth experiences in Yugoslav Dalmatia and its political culture made him consider communism the worst of political evils, as he said in a famous interview. On the other hand, in the world of Italian journalism and politics Enzo Bettiza and his dear friend Frane Barbieri were considered the greatest experts of international communism. In 1980, on the day of Tito's funeral, I went to dinner with Bettiza and Barbieri at the famous Circle of the writers of Belgrade, which was then the meeting point of Yugoslav intellectuals and where the cuisine was excellent (they were both great gourmets). Bettiza made us a great fresco of how soon Tito's death would result in severe trauma in the Yugoslav Federation until, in a short time, to determine its complete disintegration. He said, "You will see." Much blood will flow because they will begin to fight among themselves and will not cease to do so until, with good or bad, a new balance is formed. His words were prophetic. The war and the massacres of the after Titus arrived on time about ten years later. Of himself, Bettiza said he was a Dalmatian writer of Italian language and also of being a writer loaned to journalism. There was a lot of truth in both definitions. The Dalmatian origin was evident, it was enough to listen to him speak with the characteristic cadence with which he expressed himself in a linguistically perfect Italian. For him the words were very important. He said of himself: I come from a world that is no longer there and it is with the words that I defended my identity. That he was a great writer shows him his narrative vein, very lively and brilliant, which led him to assert himself even in important literary prizes. But the incisiveness and clarity of his anthropological or historical frescoes, his caustic reenactment of important phases of his profession have always made me think that most of his books would never be born or, at least, would never have been written with that sharpness and liveliness of rhythm that made them famous, if Bettiza had not been that great master of journalism that was. He had the extraordinary gift of the beautiful construction of the period and the happy choice of words, the rhythm and clarity of reasoning. But he also had the sudden blow of intuition with which he knew how to embellish his articles and books. Bettiza has written very important pages in the history of Italian journalism. But I do not believe that, journalistically speaking, it has never belonged to the intellectual or political discipline of some school: neither to that of "La Stampa" by Giulio De Benedetti, nor to that of "Corriere della Sera" by Piero Ottone, nor to that of "Il Giornale" by Indro Montanelli. With all three he worked very long, but he always played on his own; alone he learned the trade, alone he matured his beliefs and alone he fought and, very often won, the battles of the profession. Today, in greeting an old and dear friend, I mean that Enzo Bettiza has always been faithful to himself and this is not little in the time of chameleons. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u13	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I think that Mr Zanda has described in detail the figure of Bettiza, both as an intellectual, as a writer and as a journalist. I would like to stress that certain positions and controversies that Bettiza has supported, having been a long time since 1989, the year of the fall of the Berlin Wall, and the historical defeat of communism, appear almost incomprehensible at this time, but those who lived those years know that those controversies were the result of faith, beliefs, feelings and ideologies that corresponded to their own feelings. Bettiza has always been consistent, he has always "played his own game," he has always expressed himself and towards those who had his ideas he did not accept nuances: he was precise, he was punctual and he also argued with those who were his friend, if he thought that on a particular topic the points of view were different. He has always done it with grace, with great culture and elegance: personal elegance and in the way of behaving, writing and being. On behalf of the Senators of Forza Italia I offer a warm greeting to his wife Laura and children. I would like to remind you that people like Enzo Bettiza have illustrated the country and the institutions to which they have been part, the Senate and the European Parliament, and I therefore think that reading his writings would be useful for young people, because being aware of history and what has happened is the indispensable premise to try to avoid mistakes in the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u16	BIGNAMI (Misto-MovX). Mr President, last July a journalist, Enzo Bettiza, entered history, whose journey of life was marked by the events of exile, marked by migration, escape, politics, professional commitment and finally success. Bettiza marked her life in coherence and commitment to her freedom and dignity as a man, worker and intellectual, as many migrants, exiles of those lands that later became Europe, the common home, free and freed from the evils of totalitarianism. A Europe that we must grow again, so as not to plunge into the past. Born in 1927, as well as my father-in-law whom I want to remember here, Antonio, also exile and his conscript, were children of the same history, willing and noble. They told us many things about those moments, dramatic and cruel, but also romantic and popular, of lands crossed by millennia of great history. They were, together with so many others, men more Patrie, "two" as Antonio said about himself, but perhaps many, as you can think for Enzo: so at least three or maybe none for everyone, even for us. One Dalmatian and the other of Kvarner, but always overlooking the same beautiful sea that caress and hurts, which fills with tears when it is crossed by force or when it is left behind. Adriatic Sea, which is part of the Mediterranean Sea, today dark and inauspicious. And tears that flow even more when this sea caresses the land of our loves, of our loved ones and of our dead, abandoned for harmful and uncontrolled designs. A sea that has no borders, within its own soul, that has no nations. Two lives profoundly different, but with great value in common: love for one's own land and people, without discounts and without nationalism. Without any confidence in extremism. Because exile, whether forced or not, is never only physical; it is exile from oneself and often transcends into a higher consciousness, into a look from the outside, which, sometimes, absurdly, makes it better. And if the sea has no borders, it doesn't have a soul. Thank you Enzo, thank you Antonio, thanks to all the more than 350,000 men who individually, with their dignity, fought all their lives to search for themselves and to maintain their identity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u19	Conte (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to mention Enzo Bettiza, who passed away at the age of ninety last July, especially because of the fundamental role he played in the history of Italian journalism. In 1974 he was, together with Montanelli, one of the most severe critics of the left-wing drift who was taking the "Corriere della Sera" (where he was a leading envoy after a brilliant career of correspondent from Vienna and Moscow), to the point of accusing the then director Piero Ottone of having "corrupted the soul of the newspaper" and wanting to make a daily assault, like "Lotta Continua" and "Il Manifesto" and to use almost unrepeatable expressions against the publisher Giulia Maria Crespi. Therefore, when Montanelli decided to abandon the daily newspaper of via Solferino to found "Il Giornale nuovo" (The New Journal), not only followed him enthusiastically, not only assumed from the beginning the role of vicar co-director, but was the most active recruiter of journalists of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), especially those resident abroad, who shared his vision, but were undecided about what to do. He succeeded with some, failed others, who did not have the courage to take the big step. But its greatest success was to bring into the orbit of the birthday the major French intellectuals of liberal and anti-communist tendency, such as Revel, Aron and many others. Another important purchase of him was Frane Barbieri, a Yugoslav intellectual purified by Tito. In short, he contributed decisively to give the new creature an international breath, inserting it immediately fully into the family of the great moderate newspapers of Europe. For Bettiza, who had also passed as a young man for PCI, anticommunism was, rather than a professional commitment, almost a religion. Strong also of the experience of the Soviet Union, he believed communism, in all its forms, the absolute evil, which had to be fought by every means; and almost every editorial reflected these sentiments. At first, when the headquarters of "Il Giornale nuovo" was still in Piazza Cavour and the space was scarce, he shared the same room with Montanelli: among them there was a deep mutual esteem, but on the human level relationships were not always easy, even for the different approach to life. We called him "Bettiza the Baron," not only because of the naturally aristocratic attitude, but also because of a certain detachment from the reality of a daily newspaper to the first weapons, where the means of the "Corriere della Sera" were missing and the inconveniences abounded. Many attributed this grandeur to its origins: born in Split, then Yugoslav, from an old family of entrepreneurs, forced to exile by the advent of Tito, had remained a bit 'a different, a figure in certain aspects anomalous in the panorama of Italian journalism. Enzo Bettiza's full commitment to the newspaper lasted until 1976 when, together with Cesare Zappulli, he was elected senator for the Liberal Party, and then a Member of the European Parliament from 1979 to 1989. Of course, he kept writing, but his political commitments were often absorbent and could no longer deal with the printed paper as before. In the meantime, Montanelli was developing a fundamental dissent, which finally led in 1983 to the breakup and subsequent departure of Bettiza from "Il Giornale" (Il Giornale). First in Rome and then in Strasbourg, he had gained the conviction that liberal-conservative anticommunism should evolve, within the daily life and not only, towards so-called "lib-lab" positions, that is, more open to the new socialism of Bettino Craxi, of whom he had become a great friend and who considered the only political man able to defeat the Communist Party. Bettiza later assumed the direction of "Il Resto del Carlino" and "La Nazione" and then ended his career, as well as writing some beautiful books, as editorialist of "La Stampa" where half a century before he had begun. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u22	Mr Barani (ALA). Mr President, what we are commemorating in this House is one of the greatest minds of the twentieth century and I do so with a flagship carnation, a symbol of Senator Bettiza's last political phase. Great mind of the twentieth century, polyglot, educated, lived a life fortunately long and obviously this has given the family, the wife and the children to be able to have it with them for a long time, even if sometimes this long life has been troubled, not only politically, but also in the first years of his life. Bettiza used to say that it had been marked by early Serbian influences in childhood, then Italians in puberty, then Croatians in adolescence, to which were to be added, later, German and Russian grafts. He said: I have allowed, little by little, multiform European cultural roots to grow in me, I have never given much space to the growth of a specific national root. Of a rare intelligence as well as a brilliant pen, expressed a ruthless criticism of East communism, in the years when it was most difficult to be objective, since the Soviet myth still exercised a fatal attraction for many Italians. This made him the target of many criticisms, except that then history, with capital S, obviously gave him reason. Conservative at the beginning, Bettiza had liberal political ideas, and between 1976 and 1979 he was Senator of the Liberal Party, which later also represented in the European Parliament between 1979 and 1989, passing then to the Italian Socialist Party in recent years. He was sent abroad by "La Stampa" and "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), but also among the founders of "Il Giornale" (Il Giornale), a great friend of Indro Montanelli, has been editorialist of "La Stampa" until his last years of life. He was divided by Montanelli's judgment on Bettino Craxi, his last great political love, from which Enzo was politically attracted, while Indro hated him. Bettiza experienced parliamentary life in the Liberal Party and later in the Socialist Party, always with a high and aristocratic tone, theorizing the so-called lib-lab, that is, the encounter of liberal culture with Labour culture, which combined the famous craxi slogan of merits and needs, thus the best of liberal left thinking with the best spirit of socialism, precisely the so-called lib-lab or the slogan "deserves and needs". He wrote "Exile" which Mondadori published in 1996; in that work he tells of having suffered on his skin, due to his family affairs, a titine deportation that left his mark, in fact he was born in Split. This work "Exile" which he wrote has united him with "Here is Italy crying "by Bettino Craxi, when, in exile, he had to do this great work in protest towards that judicial media coup that involved him. This umbilical cord unites them and marked their lives. Our Group supports the expression of closeness to the family, to the children, to the wife and to those who speak to you, unworthyly, as a socialist, are representing him in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u23	I address the greeting of the entire Assembly to the students and teachers of the Technical Institute of Commerce Dante Alighieri in Cerignola, in the province of Foggia, who today attend our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u26	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, Enzo Bettiza, who died in Rome last July at the age of 90, was the son of a family belonging to the Italian minority of the upper bourgeoisie of Split. As a young man, Bettiza briefly joined the Italian Communist Party, from which he detached himself to join liberal positions. We want to remember this here, especially as a journalist. Between 1957 and 1964 he was a correspondent for the daily newspaper "La Stampa", first from Vienna and then from Moscow. He then moved to the "Corriere della Sera" for which he worked, again as a correspondent from abroad, for ten years. Bettiza was also director of "Il Resto del Carlino" and "La Nazione" and author of numerous books. His activity focused mainly on the study of the Central European countries. With Indro Montanelli he founded "Il Giornale" (Il Giornale), which he was a vicar co-director from 1974 to 1983. He was Senator of the Republic from 1976 to 1979 in the ranks of the Italian Liberal Party. From 1979 to 1989, for ten years, he represented the party in the European Parliament and then moved to the Italian Socialist Party. During this last period he was editorialist of "La Stampa". Among his literary works are mentioned "Exile" (who won the Campiello award in 1996), memory of childhood and adolescence in the native Central European Dalmatia from the 1920s to the Second World War, and the novel "The Ghosts of Moscow," 1993, reflection on totalitarianism in the years of Stalinian purgations. He was a conservative of liberal inspiration. Bettiza was among the best commentators of the events of Mitteleuropa and the Eastern bloc, recounting in a superb way the fall of communism, which had severely criticized throughout his life, in the early 1990s. Like Montanelli, he left the "Corriere della Sera" in controversy with the left turn wanted by the then director Piero Ottone. And always with Montanelli he founded "Il Giornale" the following year. He divided their judgment on Bettino Craxi, from whom Enzo was politically attracted and instead Indro certainly did not love. Bettiza experiences parliamentary life in the Liberal Party first and in the Socialist Party then, theorizing the lib-lab, that is, the encounter of liberal culture with the Labour one. The Northern League Group likes to remember this because it was politically fascinated by Umberto Bossi and the League, to which it recognized an Habsburg connotation, almost as an Austro-Hungarian empire. And in an electoral contest, he declared that he voted for her. His ruthless criticism of Eastern communism, in the years when the Soviet myth was still attractive, made him the target of many criticism, except that history, as often happens, gave him reason. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u29	COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, on a television show several years ago a journalist asked Enzo Bettiza, about one of his books, about this nostalgia for Dalmatian civilization that emanated from his pages: are you Slavic? Bettiza, with the scratching annoyance of his aristocracy and, at times, of his aristocraticism, answered him: "Look, I am not a man of Nations, if anything, I am a man of empires. As a man of empires, he had remained, and is present in the pages that many colleagues have quoted of "Exile", beautiful book of the mid-nineties, a very strong nostalgia for the irretrievably lost civilization. That civilization had been wiped out of Yugoslavia. Francesco Cossiga once said, with the full appreciation of Enzo Bettiza, that Yugoslavia was an invention of French and Italian Freemasonry, then taken over by Tito's communism. Enzo Bettiza had fully understood this feeling, which is something deeper than what is mechanically defined as the anticommunism of the former communist. And then, compared to Italy, Bettiza had an unmistakable Venetian, Catholic, but at the same time liberal, that came from a great Dalmatian, Niccolò Tommaseo. A vein of openness and tolerance, almost to be evoked by Count Piovene, an Italian writer older than Bettiza, but much loved by him. In Bettiza were born exciting novels, which were together pages of civil commitment, as is typical of the tradition of Thomas and liberal Catholicism. Think of D'Azeglio, Nievo and Alessandro Manzoni. It was therefore in some way predictable that Bettiza adhered to an invitation addressed to him in 1976 by Giovanni Malagodi in Milan to become senator of the Italian Liberal Party. In 1979 he became a Member of the European Parliament, again with the Liberals. In the Senate he had been a colleague of Leo Valiani, an Italian from Rijeka, as Enzo linked to the memories of the empire. In Strasbourg he happened to become a friend of Otto d'Hapsburg, who respected our national affair, but certainly did not appreciate the rigidly unified concept, we can say Mazziniana, of the nation. The experience of a Member of the European Parliament was very important for Bettiza; he understood how, how much and why Europe was not a nation and, above all, was not due to the schemes and schematics of the French Revolution. Europe could not exist outside the concreteness of Italy, Spain, Portugal, France, Germany and Dalmatia. And so Bettiza was certainly a pro-European, but he was a pro-European who never gave anything to the rhetoric of the Eurocracy, or as we would say today, to the Napoleonic macronism of themselves. In the ideals of Bettiza there were the frontier men, Adenauer, De Gasperi, Schuman, and, moreover, the fact that not only as a writer, but as an essayist, his favorite Italian writer was Guido Piovene shows how great Bettiza was an Italian and, precisely for this reason, also a great European. In the European community - said Piovene - Italy can conquer a place, as it may have never had in the world after unity, but it must not degrade itself in gross vitalism, in short-suffering politicism, in intellectual distrust. These are intellectual and political vices that Enzo Bettiza never had. His communist passage had been very short. I am thinking of the 1948 election campaign, and there is also a beautiful book of yours. The book of Bettiza on the events of communism was that of those who had investigated and reasoned on the many faces of the empire of evil, but had always tried to do so with the depth of Ignazio Silone, without the shortcuts of the Eugenio Scalfari or the Indro Montanelli. From this point of view, if Italian journalism can place someone like him, I would think of a Alberto Ronchey and, outside Italy, of course, the already mentioned Frane Barbieri and Raymond Aron, all collaborators of Italian newspapers through Enzo Bettiza. This summer - it seems to me at the end of August - an old friend of his, Claudio Magris, recalled with affection how for him Bettiza was a former communist made anti-communist, to evoke the figures of the fallen angels and, therefore, of the demons. I believe that the words of Magris, although dictated by affection and respect, are not entirely correct, because in the pages of Bettiza there is a different breath. If anything - think of the ghosts of Moscow, the lost book and the same pages of the distraction, which allowed Magris to evoke demons - there are the great novels of a great writer, first communist and then anti-communist, Arthur Koestler, friend of the heart of Leo Valiani, colleague of Bettiza. And, then, it cannot be said with Magris that the limit of Bettiza was that of an anticommunism that nothing wants to grant to the hidden humanity of so many communists, capable of dying, but also of living with great dignity. The importance of Magris is unjust, because in Bettiza there has always been a great humanity. Think of the Sixty-eight Czechoslovak, which he described, analyzed and suffered with the same depth with which Koestler suffered the Fifty-six Hungarian. The heresy of the Fifty-six Hungarian had its main interpreter also in books published in Italy by the Olivettian Community in François Fejtö, that of the Czechoslovak Sixtotto probably in Enzo Bettiza. And, however, they were books in which the authors had tried to understand and explain to find themselves. Hence our gratitude for what has meant in our civil and intellectual history a character like Enzo Bettiza. [[Applause from the FL Id-PL Group, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u30	I join the sentiments of mourning and closeness to the family and relatives who have followed our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u31	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. The Conference of Leaders approved the new timetable until 14 December. At today's sitting, the draft law on early processing arrangements will begin to be discussed; amendments to the measure will have to be tabled by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning (session opening hours). The vote will start this afternoon. Thursday 7 December will be reserved for the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to the examination of the draft legislative decree concerning the determination of electoral colleges by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Next week, in addition to the possible follow-up of the draft law on the advance provisions of treatment, the reform of the Rules of Procedure will be discussed, which will end by Wednesday 20 December with the votes by an absolute majority. The timetable also includes the following measures, already approved by the House of Deputies: witnesses to justice; orphans of domestic crimes; prevention of violent jihadist extremism; citizenship and health professions. On Wednesday 13 December, at 12 noon, secret ballots will be held with the electronic system on blocked lists for the election of the members of the Administrative Justice, the Court of Auditors and the tax justice bureau. On the same day on Wednesday 13, at 16.30, the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications on the European Council of 14 and 15 December 2017. Only the explanations of vote on the motions for resolutions tabled will follow. Today's sitting will be closed at 7.30 p.m. to allow the meeting of a parliamentary group. The remaining meetings foreseen in the timetable will be unique and will be concluded at 10 p.m., with the possibility of the Presidency to arrange suspensions in relation to the progress of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u32	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following additions to the program of the Senate's work for October, November and December 2017. - Document II, n. 38 - Organic reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate - Drawing of law n. 2740 - Provisions for the protection of witnesses of justice (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2883 - Measures for the prevention of radicalisation and violent extremism of the jihadist matrix (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1324-B - Delegation to the Government in the field of clinical trials of medicinal products as well as provisions for the reorganization of health professions and health management of the Ministry of Health (Approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u33	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new timetable for the Assembly's work until 14 December 2017: [[Tuesday, December 5 pom. h. 16,30-19,30 - Drawing of law n. 2801 and related - Advanced provisions of treatment (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) Wednesday 6 " ant. h. 9-22]] Amendments to draft law No 2801 and related (anticipated treatment provisions) should be tabled no later than 9 a.m. on Wednesday 6 December. [[Tuesday 12 December ant. h. 11-22 - Possible follow-up of draft law n. 2801 and related - Advanced provisions of treatment (adopted by the Chamber of Deputies) - Doc. II, n. 38 - Organic reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate (vote by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate) - Drawing of law n. 2740 - Protection of witnesses of justice (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2719 and related - Amendments to the Civil Code, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure in favour of orphans of domestic crimes (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) Drawing of law n. 2883 - Prevention of violent jihadist extremism (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Following of bill n. 2092 and related - Provisions on citizenship (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1324-B - Health professions (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Votes for the election of the members of the Councils of Presidency of Administrative Justice, the Court of Auditors and the Taxable Justice (Votes by secret ballot with the electronic system on blocked lists) (Wednesday, 12 hours) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers on Wednesday, 14 December, 14th and 14th, 14th and 22th December, 14th, 14th, 30th, 30th and 22th, 13th, 13th, 13th and 22th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th and 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th and 22th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 14th, 14th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th and 22th, 13th and 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 14th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th and 13th and 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th and 13th and 13th and 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 13th, 14th, 14th, 14th, 14th, 14th, 14th, 14th, 14th, 14th]] Amendments to the draft law No 2740 (Protection of witnesses of justice), No 2719 and related (Amendments to the Civil Code, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure in favour of orphans of domestic crimes) and No 2883 (Jihadist Violent Extremism Prevention) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 7 December. The deadline for tabling amendments to bill No 1324-B (Health professions) will be fixed in relation to the Commission's work. For the single meetings scheduled, the Presidency will be able to establish suspensions in relation to the progress of its work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u36	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we have never hidden our priorities in all these months, neither at the meetings of the group leaders nor certainly in this House, as we approach the end of the parliamentary term. Mr President, that is why we are asking ourselves to avoid some hypocrisies that have emerged in recent days. In particular, we expressly ask to include the discussion of the draft law on ius soli after the examination of the provision on the advance provisions of treatment because this is a priority for us. It is an already incardinated measure that are waiting for more than 800,000 boys and girls who are Italian to all intents and purposes. Mr President, we ask that the measure be dealt with immediately after the conclusion of the examination of the draft law on the advance provisions of treatment because we have the need in this end of the legislature to bring home laws of civilizations, which otherwise risk not seeing the light anymore. That is why we think that we need to make an effort in this respect. You are all distracted, but I appeal to all those who have joined the hunger strike in all these days to ask that the ius soli be finally approved. We will now vote on our proposal and, therefore, I ask you to be able to give your vote in order to include the absolutely urgent and important measure in the timetable, immediately after the conclusion of the examination of the measure on the advance provisions of treatment. When I was talking about hypocrisy, I was alluding to the fact that the President has read that there is in the calendar, but it is practically at the last place. This clearly means that there is no intention of having it approved. Realistically, it will be. That's why a lot of guys are deluded. Today they are watching us cultivate hope. Let us finally give him, for the first time, in this debate on the calendar a signal to be able to insert it immediately after the biological will alone. It would really be a way of meeting the commitments that so many have made. It is a moral, ethical fact, as well as a parliamentary commitment that many of us had undertaken. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and Art.1-MDP.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u39	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, it is not clear to me what you read, namely that, after the first two items on the agenda, no other measures were adopted at the Conference of the Leaders. There have been proposals to include several subjects in the queue, but none of them - and I have also specifically asked for this, for confirmation - has obtained a majority in order to be considered approved. So, as far as I can testify to that meeting, we have confirmed that, against the advice of the 5 Star Movement, Thursday will not work in the Assembly, because the parties are interested in the tailoring of the electoral colleges, then December 8 is feast, 9 is Saturday and 10 is Sunday. Do you want to work on Mondays after a long libation bridge? Never! We will then be available on 12 December, but the votes for the election of judges will already be held on 13 and then President Gentiloni will come to make the communications ahead of the next European Council. He'll stay on December 14th and then? Then it ends there, because on December 19, also this against the opinion of the 5 Star Movement, the examination of the reform of the Rules of the Senate, with a certain vote scheduled for December 20, without any guarantee to conclude the work on a measure requested by millions of Italians. The vast majority of Italians, in fact, ask to give dignity to the people who came to the end of their lives: your voters and also the center-right voters ask, despite the fact that they want to cover this reality. It is an absolutely transversal request, because it has no ideology. If we want, in addition to all these people, the Pontiff also asks, who expressed himself in a very clear way on the need to end the practice of therapeutic aggression in this country. We are in the final position with regard to guarantees to persons in this situation. We are in a situation in which we should ensure that we do not commit a sin of omission - morally, but politically as well - and that we jeopardise the adoption of this legislation. Therefore, the proposal of the 5 Star Movement is that Thursday, December 7th work, because even if it is Sant'Ambroeus - I apologise to the citizens if I say it wrong - so many Milanese people work that day and even those who in a sacred way celebrate, expect us to do our duty, because here we are not in Milan. They also expect that perhaps, before the Senate Rules, another measure will be included in the calendar, announced by the Democratic Party and its secretary, who on the train proposed to abolish the shame of vitality. The draft law on this subject bears the name of a MP of the PD: Richetti. There was almost a unanimous vote in the House of Deputies, but today we are turning back to something that has been promised to the citizens and that is likely to be mugged. I repeat: that we work on 7 and 11 December and, after the conclusion of the measure on the biotestament, insert the examination of the bill for the abolition of the vitality. This is the request of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u42	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, as an Article 1-MDP Group, we welcome the decision to schedule, as the first measure, the draft law on biological wills, because we believe that this is absolutely a measure that is due, too long awaited and that responds to the suffering of people and families. It is therefore very important that there is a commitment to submit it to the scrutiny of this House and - I hope - to a swift approval without changes to the text of the House of Members. At the same time, we were very disappointed that an important measure was used as an exchange commodity to postpone another, that of the right of citizenship, equally relevant and with respect to which they had created just and deserved expectations, making public commitments to 800,000 boys and their families. I think it is really a violence that is working against the expectations of these people. Having scheduled what we call improperly ius soli, the right of citizenship, as the last point sounds like a mockery and, if this calendar is confirmed, it means that we will have no chance of bringing it to the debate of this House. I remember that, of all the measures listed, that is the only one that had been incardinated, having already begun its process in this House. So there is no reason, except a political reason, for moving it; a political reason that - I must say - invests the majority. It is a very serious problem when we fail to meet our commitments in this way. For this reason, we agree with the request, already made by the leader of the Italian Left, Loredana De Petris, to bring the ius soli to the discussion of this Assembly immediately after the biological will. To approve that bill is fundamental, also in order to avoid that we continue to confuse issues that have nothing in common: on the one hand, the very right, very serious issue - of which we must deal with much more continuity than we are doing - of the refugees who arrive in our country, to whom we must give hospitality; on the other, the 5 million foreign people, in particular 3,5 million non-EU citizens, who have resided permanently in our country for years: they have formed their families here, have decided to stay, and their children have no other homeland than this one and strongly ask that this country recognize them. I believe that this issue is too important and questions the conscience of all of us, and that it is right for this House to speak, even in the freedom of different positions. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP and Misto-SI-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u43	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u45	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, with regard to the timetable you have read, I would just like to take a little step back. This is not because of my natural propensity to try to make history, but we met in the group leaders only last Thursday and we agreed to start discussing the Senate Rules today. Mr President, at your request, we have all agreed to give an end to the very limited amendments, so that we can start a fruitful debate today. We have tabled the amendments about 24 hours after the group leader has finished. This morning we were faced with something new. I understand that this was not his will, and I give him credit for it, but suddenly we were faced with a changed calendar and discussion on a subject, the biological will, which - you will allow me to say - is incredibly sensitive and complicated and poses problems of every kind. This debate should be held within a restricted space because the Senate has only one option: to approve the measure exactly as it was dismissed from the other side of Parliament. Any other hypothesis, of course, would make the Senate vote useless. Mr President, I also say this to my colleagues, starting with my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement: we cannot pretend that we do not know that we are at the end of the parliamentary term and we have only a few weeks of work ahead of us. So, in this situation, things can only be done in two ways. The first is to consider this as a space available to the collaboration of all, so that those measures that have already been discussed by the Commissions, many of which have had the unanimous opinion of the Groups of the Chamber, are carried out, thus favouring the legislature, parliamentarism and its rules. Then there is another way, aimed at favoring the fact that we are entering the electoral campaign and then, in this case, we can also say that the biological will wanted the Pope, because this is what we have heard and it is therefore evident that this measure will be bent on electoral logic. Now, Mr President, I think I am saying something of absolute common sense by saying that, if we proceed in the first way, we can ask for everyone's cooperation and use all the time available so that what we have done together can achieve a result. If we proceed in the second way, meaning this time as an electoral pre-campaign, it is legitimate that the forces of the majority do so - I understand it, it is not the first time - but I would also tell them to be taught by history, because at other times the results that the country has obtained for this way of proceeding were not, so to speak, the best. I would like to mention briefly the example of the reform of Title V of the Constitution, approved in the last days of the legislature to make a piece of electoral campaign by brandishing the flag of federalism. Today that reform is without fathers and mothers, you don't know who voted for it and everyone weeps crocodile tears. It would be too easy to predict the same picture as regards the biological will. However, if we want to proceed in this way, if we want to say that this law is intended by His Holiness, Pope Francis, if we want to force forces of this kind, Mr President, it is impossible to ask for the cooperation of the opposition. It is then clear that the opposition will do everything to ensure that this area of early election campaign is as compressed as possible, it is in the order of things, I would say that it responds to laws of a human nature, as well as of political logic. Therefore, since we are approaching the holidays, if we want to treat the opposition in this House as capons, we cannot ask for Christmas to be anticipated. Hence the call, Mr President, to reverse the logic: rather than making an internal battle against the ranks of the present enlarged majority on the left, between ius soli and biological will, another logic is applied that respects this Parliament more and the truth of things. Therefore, first of all, the joint measures, already approved by the Commissions, are put on the agenda, and in this case the oppositions will cooperate, working also on Friday and Monday, because obviously we will have done something for the country and not something by virtue of an electoral campaign that will start anyway, but it is useless to try to get it started in advance. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u46	Senator Quagliariello, do you have a specific request to change the calendar or just generic? Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, my request is to start with the Rules of Procedure and, in any case, with all the shared measures that you yourself have put into the proposal you have just made to us. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So you're asking for the order to be reversed. Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Exactly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u49	MARINELLO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I have heard many words here; I have heard of laws of civilization; I have heard of hypocrisy. The truth is one and one and it is the real great hypocrisy: we are using absolutely divisive arguments and laws that do not serve neither the country nor especially at the moment that we are living, that is, that of the end of the legislature. Mr President, in order to get to my point of view briefly, I believe that we need to look for those mature measures which have already been drawn up in the Commissions on the subject and which, in my opinion, serve the country. I'll give you a few. First of all, there are measures presented by the Government itself: I refer to the draft law n. 2728 which reorganizes the heads of the Ministry of Defence and its structures. Delegations to the Government for the revision of the operational model of the Armed Forces, for the remodulation of the professional model in the matter of staff of the Armed Forces, as well as for the reorganization of the system of the training. This is the example of a law provision that can be discussed. It is an absolutely shared measure that looks at the interest of the country and the nation, and that goes towards the useful and modern reorganization of the Armed Forces. Among other things, it is a measure that brings a series of measures not only economic, but also regulatory, expected by hundreds of thousands of Italians who carry out their work day after day serving the country. I would also like to mention another measure, the Senate Act 2864, also a measure presented by the Government, which includes provisions on crimes against cultural heritage. This is also an absolutely awaited measure in a country that, from this point of view, is characterized by outdated and obsolete legislation in force. I would like to mention another measure, which looks instead at environmental issues: the Senate Act 2582, which contains provisions on the composition of cosmetic products and the regulation of the Italian eco-label. This is an absolutely shared measure, which brings the interest of all the parliamentary groups and puts our country at the forefront of other European countries, because rules of this kind exist only in very few countries and especially in North America. It is a measure of great civilization because it aims to protect the sea and especially the Mediterranean Sea. Finally, I quote the Senate Act 2323, which brings delegations to the Government for the amendment of the legislation on the use of sewage sludge in agriculture, which has already been concluded since 19 October and has since been in the report. This measure is expected not only by large sectors of entrepreneurship, but above all by thousands of local authorities today in a very difficult state, because they are unable to solve the problem of the use of sewage sludge. It is therefore a measure of absolute utility for the country. To conclude, it is not even worth underestimating Senator Quagliariello's proposal to return to the subject of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, as established, because it is a prince's argument. It is not a formal, but a substantial issue, because trying to make our Rules more efficient will certainly put this House in a better position in the next parliamentary term. It is a matter of vital importance for democracy and cannot be contained within a few hours of discussion, at most on a day of deepening until the final vote with even the quota of the times. It is a subject that must be debated in the appropriate time and manner. Mr President, these arguments lead us back to what I said in the preamble to my speech. The real great hypocrisy is that here there are parliamentarians and political forces who want to use, inappropriately and inappropriately, important and delicate topics that need to be deepened, such as the end of life, the biological will and the theme of ius soli, as a banner for the upcoming election campaign. This is not the serious way to go about matters, especially in a civilised country. Then we use these last weeks of parliamentary term in a useful and appropriate way. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u52	WHITE (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, normally in a parliamentary final possibly ordered - as you would like to remind me - the less divided measures should be "complemented" for rapid approval; not only the less divided ones, but especially those whose process has been concluded in the competent Commissions and which could become laws of the State. Mr President, we have two requests to make: of course I was in a minority at the Group Leader on the timing of the biological will, the early treatment arrangements (DAT), but I am here to ask her for indulgence in the time, because the early treatment arrangements have been dealt with only and exclusively by the House of Deputies. It is true that many similar measures have arrived in these classrooms, but the Senate has never fired them. The current text therefore comes from the House and from the rumors circulating in this House. We understand that it will be armored. I do not want to go into the matter now, of course, but this bill would absolutely need some change of substance to become an applicable law; I do not say a good law, but a applicable law. Therefore, since the majority of the group leaders have asked you peremptoryly to put the bill on the agenda starting today, I ask you for indulgence on the timing, so that we can all calmly enter into the matter and make battles that are not obstructive, but serious and profound, in order to create maximum sharing in this House. The proposal to change the timetable that I would like to make is in the sense of putting before the bill on the reordering of health professions to ius solo. Mr President, two million professionals have been waiting for the reorganization of their professions for 20 years. It's been almost 20 years since we've reached the deadline and the reorder is never approved. It is an absolutely important law, not only for professionals, but for all of us, because it means fighting illegality and putting at the centre the patient and professionalism of the professional within recognized and even manageable albums. So, Mr President, the reading of the Senate is really running out of steam in the Commission and the measure is ready to be dealt with in this House. I therefore call - and this is my amendment - for an early examination of the draft law to re-order the health professions to the ius solo. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u55	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I will be forced to make a provocative proposal, like the one you have addressed to this House: you have proposed the examination of highly divisive measures which have not been properly tried in the competent Commissions, measures which divide an already fragile nation for the many phenomena of disintegration that have progressively weakened it. Above all, the measure in question, which arrives at the House for its second examination - as I said without further consideration by the Commission of the merits of the individual amendments, especially those which have the most substantial character, which Mr Bianconi was just talking about - should already be examined in the Chamber tomorrow, as you would like with the consequence of creating legitimate reasons for division in this House because there are strong reasons for division out of here. We are not talking about a law dedicated to containing therapeutic bitterness; this law has nothing to do with therapeutic bitterness, but is dedicated, rather, to passive or omissive euthanasia, which is produced when food and water are removed from a person who could otherwise, even if in conditions of serious disability, live for a long time. This law refuses to recognize the role of the doctor, to whom the last word should belong, in science and conscience. This law calls into question even the condition of minors. [[Comments from the PD Group]] CIRINA (PD). You need to talk about the calendar! SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). I'm talking and I'm asking for silence! [[Vivid comments by Senators Cardinals and Cirinna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u56	Senator Sacconi, please, I am in charge of the order of this House. Continue your speech and make the proposal to amend the timetable; we will then get into it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u57	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). I make a rather provocative proposal: I would ask you to put before the first measure you proposed on the regulation of the right to strike in public transport, on which the Government has repeatedly committed itself, with robatory statements by the Secretary of the Democratic Party and the Minister of Transport, who, on the contrary, has questioned the reason why Parliament would not have done so yet. Too bad that I, as rapporteur, have been witnessing the obstructionism of the Democratic Party for months and above all of the Government. It has been handed over by the rapporteur to his co-rapporteur a text for months and a previous text for over a year, yet I have not even had the dignity of a denial, of an opinion that is expressly opposed to it. I would understand if this House would tell me that this measure is not mature because it is considered divisive in here and out of here. With respect to one of the founding principles of this nation, which concerns the right to life, the value of life and the principle of the protection of any life, in whatever condition of fragility it finds itself, in the face of such a divisive subject you instead propose to proceed and to move forward, probably with instruments of compression of the free parliamentary debate. Well, until the last minute and the last second, you will find in me and many colleagues a firm opposition, using all the instruments of the Rules of Procedure. And you will be forced, if you want the approval of this bill, to abuse your power, otherwise it will not pass, because it does not correspond to the majority of the feelings of this nation. [[Comments from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u58	Senator Sacconi, moderate these threatening forms of intervention: should I abuse my power? First of all, I would like to point out that I did not propose the measure, but the Conference of Leaders, therefore those representing the Groups: the majority proposed it, is not my proposal. Secondly, we will use all the instruments that the Rules of Procedure allow to ensure that the majority is respected and that the minority can also speak and express its reasons for opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u61	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I will not go into the substance of the content and motivations of one provision rather than the other; we simply and very quickly ask that the agreement that was made last week at the Conference of the Leaders be respected, when - for those who did not know it - a decision was taken by a very large majority; perhaps it had been made informally, but an agreement was reached for which this week the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate would be discussed and the next one would be discussed about the early provisions of treatment (DAT). The parliamentary groups, including ours, have organized themselves in order to be able to face this path of assembly, but today at the Conference of the Leaders we found ourselves in a situation where some played for those who were more intransigent than others. We did not like this attitude so much, Mr President, we say it with extreme clarity and sincerity, also because when we organize ourselves, when we work and make agreements even between gentlemen, we believe that these must be respected. The fact that a whole new timetable is being decided today, that last week's agreement is being overturned and that Parliament's groups are being forced to take action that is not indifferent leaves us very perplexed. Therefore our proposal is to reverse the agenda, starting with the organic reform of the Senate Rules, and to deal with the anticipated provisions of treatment next week. The further proposal, which we are presenting to the House after having represented it at the Conference of the Leaders, is the inclusion of the provision on the exclusion of the abbreviated rite for crimes punished with life imprisonment, a measure that comes from the Chamber of Deputies where, on a proposal from Mr Molteni, it has received a very great consensus. We are asking for it to be scheduled or for it to be dealt with in the Commission's deliberations. It is a measure that is required both by the industry, but also by the public, given the importance of what had been voted on. On the subject and on the DAT we will have time to speak. I am glad that your idea of a timetable has not been passed, which at first had to contain the ius soli, which I hope this House will confirm will remain at the last place in the schedule of proceedings, so as to deal with it on the day of the never. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u62	Senator Centinario, thank you for giving me this idea. As far as the deliberative examination is concerned, if the Commission so requests, I am always inclined to give the authorization, of course with the Government's favourable opinion. Therefore, for the provision to which it alluded to the abbreviated rite, already approved by the House, if there is this request, it will certainly be accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u65	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I see that we have been experimenting for a few days, but this morning we have reached the peak, in the game of the goose at the end of the parliamentary term. I thought that these boxes, which in sequence represent the game of the goose and which define the day on which Parliament should be dissolved, were exclusive to the Presidency of the Republic, instead I see that we make very precise calculations about when our parliamentary term can end, so much so that this morning we have even made a backward path, to understand what it was possible to approve in the two and a half weeks that seem to be there until the end of this tormented legislature. I say this because the Lombard efficiency cited by President Endrizzi in his speech (among the above the exact pronunciation from Milan is Sant'Ambrös, with the Umlaut ) does not seem to belong to the 5 Star Movement, because their representative, lawyer Buccarella, was not at all efficient in the discussion of a measure that we all shared, so much so that it was voted even unanimously in Junta for the Rules of Procedure; I refer to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. It seemed to me that in these changes, with the contributions of all the groups, very important proposals were contained which went towards the greater efficiency of parliamentary work. Having failed to achieve constitutional reform for a single legislative assembly, it was obviously sought - and we all shared this attempt - to make the Senate Assembly more efficient with a reform of the Rules of Procedure. But Senator Buccarella was not delegated to decide. He took note of the 78 amendments (it seems to me that there were so many) and reserved the possibility of deciding on them because they had to ask their group. We understand the game, Mr. President. She tried to unnecessarily convince the 5 Star Movement to schedule today at 4:30 p.m. to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. Obviously, the 5 Star Movement - the only one - refused to adhere to its proposal and, in fact, today we found on the agenda the provision on the so-called end of life, we found the biological will. [[Senator Endrizzi's comments.]] We also found it impossible, and this I am very sorry, Senator Endrizzi, to interpret this provision as a measure that affects the sensitivity of consciences. In fact, it is transforming into an ideological measure: the old majority (and the interventions of the representatives of the Popular Alternative seem particularly significant to me) is being removed and a new majority is glued or tested, ranging from Article 1-MDP - which also has a great new leader - up to the 5 Star Movement, as regards the inclusion of this provision. Too bad, because today I asked and with difficulty I got, and I thank the other group leaders for allowing us, the possibility, as far as we are concerned, to deepen the reasoning. We also want to make a contribution to this measure. I remind you that we voted against the House; I remind you that it is a controversial measure and that it is a measure that concerns consciences and families, our families, the people closest to us. Therefore, we cannot liquidate this measure as if it were an ideological flag of a political deployment. We are sorry, therefore, to have arrived today at a hasty debate without the necessary in-depth discussions. Of course, someone will say that we have done so much in the Commission, that the many amendments have not allowed us to arrive with the rapporteur in this House; but so much so: we expected, and we were not against it, that we could arrive in a Chamber more ready and more sensitive to feeling more consciences than ideological flags. I think that, at this point, we will make our contribution. In about an hour's time our Group will be absent from the Chamber and I hope that there will be no particularly important speeches in that half hour when we will meet and the House will continue to speak. Tomorrow morning our representatives, on the basis of the deepening that we are going to do this evening, will certainly speak in this House, each according to his own sensitivity. I would just like to ask you one thing at the end of this speech, Mr President. Since we all know, at this point, when this parliamentary term is over, I am referring here to what Senator Quagliariello said: perhaps it would have been better to make better use of this short term legislature to approve those measures (and there are many) widely shared. Perhaps a more virtuous and less ideological attitude would have allowed us to close down, to do the tasks that we expected and that we had already done in the Commissions. Unfortunately, however, today we are obliged to examine a measure, I repeat, which is controversial. We cannot conclude the measures, and there are many of them, which could have represented that plus, and I also wish for the Senate's Rules of Procedure. I hope, Mr President, that you will close your Presidency with a positive act, which will contribute to the next term of office and to the next President, so that the work in this House is more efficient and better. So, in the end - to answer the question that you always ask us - what is the change? - for this reason, I ask you to reverse the agenda and immediately put the amendment of the Rules of Procedure on the agenda. Tomorrow the Board for the Rules of Procedure meets. So, probably, the work of this House for today is basically over. Tomorrow, as I said, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure will be held and, therefore, I ask you to reverse the agenda by referring it to what it was like at the beginning: first the examination of the reform of the Rules of Procedure and then the provision on the biological will. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u66	Senator Romani, I want to warn you that tomorrow the session of the Board of Rules of Procedure has been offended. ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Very bad, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. At the request of the members of the Junta, a further time was requested to examine the amendments which have already been tabled. In fact, in the speech on the timetable, the resumption of plenary work is no longer reported after the end of the work of the Junta but in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u69	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I agree with the requests made by other Members to reverse the agenda with regard to the measure that we should begin to deal with, which I am not going to go into. You received a series of associations this morning, rightly and legitimately, as you can also read on the Internet, whose name refers to the introduction of euthanasia in Italy. These associations are all in favour of the draft law in question, which clearly fully meets their needs, but which does not at all concern what we have been talking about for a parliamentary term. There is talk of euthanasia, an absolutely divisive subject, which should have been treated differently. The serious thing is, however, not only that a bill that allows passive euthanasia comes forward, as we will demonstrate and as doctors are saying in all the places where they can express their opinion, but that to make this provision will not be approved - I address above all to colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, perhaps using their own language - the provision on witnesses of justice. This provision is in fact at great risk and, if I were to speak as they speak, this evening the Mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the Camorra will celebrate because it does not protect the repentant, but the witnesses of justice, those who put their lives at risk for choices of legality and from the economic point of view and protection risk their lives and their families. This measure, which has been put in line, risks jumping into this parliamentary term. However, there are others that I suggest, that have already been discussed in the Commission on justice, have been amended and on which there has been a point of agreement. I am referring to the measure on the protection of cultural heritage; a problem not only of an artistic nature. I remember that the Carabinieri's commander for the protection of cultural heritage also came to explain that the new rules allow to combat the trafficking of international works that finance terrorism, stating that they absolutely need this measure to combat international terrorism. If I were to reason like my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, then I would have to say that this evening the terrorists toast because the Senate will not be able to approve this measure which, for a small change, will have to return to the House. In view of the fact that it has not even found its reception on the agenda, it is clear that all the work done on that plan will be thrown away. Instead, I propose that we insert it. Then there is the measure on compensation for non-capital damage; another measure on which there is unanimity in the Justice Commission, but which, again in this case, must return to the House also for a small adjustment. Gentlemen, if we are on the electoral campaign then someone will respond to gifts made to organized crime and international terrorism, someone will explain why, since these measures are ready, they have not even been put on the agenda, in order to pass the divisive, controversial and miswritten ones instead. All Italy, rightly, was outraged because in England a magistrate decided, against the will of the parents, that a child should die; exactly what is written in this provision. In fact, in case of conflict between the family, the doctor and the minor, it is the magistrate who decides whether a person should live or not. So it is written in the provision. Things that are fascinating, that have mobilized world public opinion and that we are putting in surreptitiously. I therefore ask you to take the measure on the witnesses of justice in order to prevent it from falling; to continue the measure on the protection of cultural goods and non-capital compensation and, if you like, on feminicide or domestic crime. I know that the latter is neither about feminicide nor domestic crime, but with the amendments it can be improved and that can also give a response to popular mobilizations of the institutions. In the last ten days nothing has been said but about feminicide, the need to intervene and the need to find funds. Now, with this choice of the Conference of Leaders, we risk that even that measure will not go through. It really seems to me that someone is doing the reverse of what the President-in-Office of the Council has also said: a legislature that in five, six, seven or eight days at most closes its work neatly, bringing home the work already worked out and finding the consent of all. Instead, we put ourselves on the level of division. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u72	Mr Barani (ALA). Mr President, our Group broadly agreed on the timetable for the work you have read, with two variables. At my request, the so-called Lorenzin bill on health professions, which has been put in line, has been included in the work schedule. I heard Mrs Laura Bianconi a moment ago asking her to anticipate the measure on ius soli. Instead of making this request, I would ask you for a certain date for your approval. In fact, I remind you of the action, which was here in the Senate and then went to the Chamber of Deputies, which sent it back to us. This date could be set for December 22 or 23. Of course the members of my group have freedom of conscience, but I will vote for it. Some Members have mentioned His Holiness, Pope Bergoglio, who spoke on this subject, giving his interpretation which is not exactly the same as the instrument that some colleagues wanted to understand and underlying in this House. Mr President, I am reminding you that we have another authority which I, of course, as a senator, recognize most: I am referring to the President of the Republic, who asked you and the President of the House to proceed with the election of the missing judge of the Constitutional Court. This is our duty, not least because there are a couple of judges missing from that plenum and the Constitutional Court does not therefore have the authority deriving from its completeness. Given that just Wednesday 13, at 12, the Senate will proceed to some appointments, as will the House on the same day, I ask you to consider the possibility of Parliament meeting in common at 2 p.m. to proceed to the appointment of the constitutional judge, who has been missing for several months (maybe more than a year). These are the considerations I have made aloud on behalf of my Group. I would like to end by pointing out that, with regard to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, our Group did not have the opportunity to attend the restricted meeting, nor to be present in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. I hear that there are senators who are involved, but they are not allowed to make decisions, because they must then hear their group. I mean, there's a second and third level, and we're missing the first. Nevertheless, I repeat that our priorities are to convene Parliament together and to have a certain date for the adoption of the so-called Lorenzin draft law on professional matters.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u73	Senator Barani, I remind you that voting for the election of the constitutional judge cannot be decided here, because it must take place in Parliament in a joint sitting. So, if there is no agreement, we absolutely cannot put your request to the vote today.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u75	Senator Endrizzi, you have already spoken, but as a Holding Company, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u76	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I am only speaking for a brief reply. I am surprised by Senator Paolo Romani, in principle, when he recommends that we go with lead on a bill that has already been examined and voted in the Chamber of Deputies, and then be examined - indeed, held and covered up for two years - in the Senate Commission. The Commission in the Senate has tabled 2,700 amendments: either they have been presented at random or perhaps there has been a serious, careful, pointy - and perhaps excessive - examination of this measure. I am surprised that the same diligence was not invoked when it comes to the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which, among the sources of law, is second only to the Constitution. Well, the Senate's Rules of Procedure provide for the House's only amending phase. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has the task of defining a text which is then proposed to the Assembly for amendments. It is the only amending step, and this is what has been intended to be compressed, without Senator Paolo Romani having anything to do with it, setting the deadline for amendments within twenty-four hours and bringing the measure to the Chamber in forced stages already today, when the Commission itself admitted that it needed a more careful examination. What he attributes to his colleague Buccarella - low productivity - is instead a responsible act of attention and respect for the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This Regulation shall Senator Endrizzi, we understand and thank you. ENDRIZZI (M5S). I mentioned it in the group leader last week. I asked for specific guarantees and asked why the same treatment on the amendments could not be reserved for two laws and my request fell into the void. Today Forza Italia cannot complain: it is the victim of the obstructionism that it has first...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u77	Senator Endrizzi, all possible changes of time required by the Committee have been granted and therefore the Board for the Rules of Procedure has all the time to be able to decide the opinions well. It is, in fact, releasing opinions. It shall not act in the place of the Assembly. There will be a resolution in this House. Then deliberate the opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u80	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I shall now start with a proposal and ask that the draft law No 2816 on self-defense be put before the other items on the agenda. I have decided to make this proposal after listening to the statements of several Members, including the House, who have noted the seriousness of not calling into question, at a final stage of the legislature, a bill that the House has long approved. It is a particularly heartfelt theme. I am not an advocate of the gunfighter citizen because I believe it is the state that must guarantee the safety conditions for which a person in his home and in his appliances must be able to live safely. Arming and defending oneself can expose you to a number of risks and reactions. However, I cannot blame those who, being in the condition of being the victim of aggression in their home, react if they are in the regular and legitimate possession of a weapon; however, often, for the failure to endanger their lives, perhaps accompanied by the injury that may suffer the attack or even more dramatic results for their family members, they face a trial, a judgment and a further suffering. An innovative legislation on self-defense was introduced years ago, but it proved insufficient, as some reports have shown us. In the House the approved text sparked a discussion with some aspect of hilarity in the newspapers. I would remind colleagues of the famous debate on night and day. Therefore, the circumstances of the case were linked to conditions. It is obvious that if a person acts in the dark he has less chance of identifying whether a target is a real danger or not, but this elementary fact passed into the newspapers as an allegorical fact, so, there was self-defense at night and not during the day. I therefore believe that this measure must not only be discussed, but must be amended quickly in order to make the law on self-defense useful to guarantee those citizens who legitimately defend their lives, that of their family members, their property or their home and reduce the margin of uncertainty faced by the judiciary in some cases. So we've had controversy and striking cases, which I don't have to remember. It is therefore a law that we should adopt quickly and that is why I propose that we discuss it immediately, also because we had come here today to discuss the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. The timetable has then been changed by the Conference of Leaders, with the procedures that the Rules of Procedure allow us, so much so that we are here to propose, under the Rules of Procedure, further amendments. So these are the procedures and everyone makes use of them, in one direction or another. Expectations were different, but they can be changed by the force of the facts. I therefore invoke the strength of a fact: a law on self-defense is awaited and goes a step forward. I am not going to go into the matter, because I have seen that, many times, other measures are being denigrated in order to justify their claims. I am opposed to the law on the end of life, because I am absolutely opposed to laws in that area and, therefore, without making crusades for or against, I think that it should be left to the therapeutic alliance between the family and doctors the decision on how to manage dramatic phases of existence, which includes - alas - also the final phase of the same. However, on these points we will enter into the substance, if the timetable remains confirmed, as I do not hope. I therefore appeal to the House to put before the agenda the examination of the bill on self-defense, which I believe is very much awaited by many citizens and which also has a value as a sign of deterrence. In fact, I believe that 99% of the citizens are not armed and want to be quiet and calm, nor do I think that this law, if approved, would cause people to arm themselves. I agree that the fewer people are armed and the better, but those who legally can defend themselves with a legitimate use of a weapon must not then be tried, vile, attacked and persecuted. This is what the House of Deputies tried to do with that bill and, if there are any imperfections, there is the Senate, which fortunately remained alive. I think this was a good choice, because it allows us to improve and correct the laws. That is a measure that has been discussed, has been deepened and needs to be improved. The other measure that we have put to the first point, it seems to me that it has not even been concluded in the Commission and in any case it concerns - and I have concluded, Mr President - issues that should be left out of the legislative work and reserved for families and doctors. This claim to legislate on euthanasia is a serious mistake and concluding a legislature with a law on euthanasia is also symbolically wrong, in my opinion. Let us then discuss self-defense, which is a much more appropriate and important choice: therefore, the change I propose is to anticipate the examination of the bill that I quoted at the beginning of my speech, to start discussing it already this afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u81	I greet on behalf of the Student Assembly, students and teachers and students of the Liceo delle Scienze umani "Emanuele Gianturco" in Potenza, who are attending our work. Hey, guys! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u82	Mr President, this last proposal by my colleague, Mr Gasparri, seems to me to be viable, but to a certain extent, because I find in it, from the point of view of the method, the same flaws as that which you, Mr President, made to the House on the basis of the Conference of Leaders. Mr Gasparri proposed examining the measure on self-defense, wishing - as legitimate - a change in the text of the measure and returning it to the Chamber of Deputies of the amended text. Mr President, I have the impression, however, without anticipating what may be the path of this House, that we are faced with a similar difficulty and I would say even more pronounced, because, if your proposal is accepted, it is difficult to think that, from the parliamentary debate of this House, the draft law on the end of life - let us call it that - will not undergo any changes involving the intervention of the other House. That is why, with regard to the proposals and the semi-agreements of the past few weeks, it seems to me that today we are introducing a note of extreme disorder, not about the end of life but about the end of the legislature. Perhaps a few have noticed this, but some colleagues have said so explicitly (I think Mr Romani): a majority change is proposed through the inclusion in the timetable of measures in the last days of the legislature. This is frankly unacceptable, not for the opposition, whoever it is, but for the idea of opposition that is within the idea of Parliament with the same titles as it is within the idea of majority voting. We have suffered, including Mr Volpi, in a particularly lively morning, his initiative before the summer to schedule the so-called ius soli. We were in July: nothing was done in July, August, September or October. Today, before the beginning of the Assembly's work, the brilliant idea comes to anticipate - I hope not with the same forcings that led my colleague Volpi to an attitude I will not say wrinkled but at least broken - the examination of the bill on the end of life. This is because in the material constitution of the debate we realize that, as they stand, five-star colleagues are in favour of this measure while they were not in favour - after the memorable July session with Volpi protagonist - of voting on the bill on the ius soli. We have also understood that the attitude of a part of the majority is not entirely coordinated with the vote on the calendar. So, you, Mr President, have all the very few powers - and I admit this to you - that the Rules of Procedure assign them, but at the moment it has a role to play as Minister of the Conference of the Leaders in the relationship with the Parliamentary Assembly. How can it come to mind that this elegant... [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u83	Make your proposal to change the calendar, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u84	[[Applause from Senator Bottici]] COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). If I have to make a proposal... This is the theme of the speeches. COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). You've got to motivate me, though. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I think he's doing it; I wanted to follow his thoughts. COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). The proposal will seem contradictory to you, but in the end I repeat what Senator Gasparri has already proposed, because if you have heard title, as minister of relations with the Assembly of the Conference of the Leaders, to propose that kind of path, in my opinion incorrect and rude towards what we all repeat on the prerogatives of the Head of State in the electoral campaign and on the date of the elections, then for the same arguments, by analogy, I too remain the proposal of Gasparri and I thank you for having motivated it. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u87	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, since I agree with the timetable, which I naturally voted on, I would not have asked for the floor if Senator Romani had first spoken, and just now Senator Compagna had not expressed a political opinion on the parliamentary moment; that is, if they did not say that, in their opinion, there is a majority change and that the timing of the measure at the end of life means that the majority is changing. Apart - I apologise to the two colleagues - the ridiculousness that someone can imagine that a few weeks after the end of the parliamentary term the majority can be changed, I want to reassure them that this possibility is not only missing, but has never been experienced. Members of the Groups who want to vote on the end-of-life measure can testify that before the Conference of Group Leaders with none of them there were contacts on this subject and I have not agreed with anyone what the position of the Democratic Party Group on this issue would have been - I must say - that I find it absolutely reasonable. I would like to put this House before it in its natural terms: this is a measure against which for almost six months in the Commission an absolute obstruction has been exercised, visible, clear, perhaps I could also say stated, and the President of the Commission, who was the rapporteur, has repeatedly, during these months, come to declare herself willing to give up the position of rapporteur for having seen the impossibility, in the face of this repeated obstructionism, of continuing the work of the Commission, so much so that she has resigned from the position of rapporteur. Now we are asking for the measure to be brought to the House and do you know why we are asking for it? Because the legislature is about to end and we think that this measure should be approved. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Frankly, I find it hard not to see in many of the speeches on the calendar other forms, perhaps from a better organized point of view, but also of obstructionism, if it is true that we have been discussing for an hour and a half of the most varied proposals. This whole debate has only one objective: that the draft law on the end of life should not be approved. I simply say - because there are many opinions here and I know that these are interwoven issues and a complicated timetable to be prepared because the measures that would deserve to be dealt with in this House are many but the time available is minimal - that those who will vote in favour of the timetable will mean that the end-of-life provision will become law and those who will not vote for it will mean explicitly that they do not want it to become law. Let us be clear about this and let us get out of this hypocrisy about dealing with this or that other point first, because that is not the case. We are talking about a precise measure, that we want it to become law, and that is why we are going to vote on the timetable. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u88	Since there have been so many requests to change priorities that have emerged...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u91	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to make one point. [[Protests from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u92	A clarification of what? ENDRIZZI (M5S). The only thing that must not be put to the vote, because it has already been put to the vote and approved at the Conference of the Leaders, is the stay in the first place of this measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u93	Senator Endrizzi, we've run out of calendar editing requests. I was saying that several priorities and changes have been made to the draft laws already included in the timetable, so I will put to the vote a general request for a reversal of the priority of the calendar, as decided by the Conference of the Leaders, and then, if this request for a generic reversal is accepted, we will move on to the individual requests for a reversal. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to reverse the priority of the items included in it. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include further draft legislation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u94	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u96	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I think it would be appropriate for you, given the very different nature of the draft laws which were requested to be included, to say at least who the proposer is before the vote, or perhaps separate votes should be taken on the various points. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Look, we've always done this. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, it is for the sake of clarity. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We already know - and are in the act - the demands that each Group has made for the inclusion of draft laws. SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, the ius soli and the vitals cannot put them in a single vote: that is what I am trying to say.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u97	The ius soli is not a bill that is included in the calendar: it is already in the calendar. I'm sorry, but this isn't about this request. We are now voting on the inclusion of draft laws which are not on the calendar. [[Applause from Senator Russo.]] I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work to include further draft legislation. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u100	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the ius soli was already on the calendar. We had proposed not to reverse it, but to insert it after... president. And it is a reversal, therefore, of the position he has in the calendar. We voted on the request for a reversal of priorities. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, as far as we were concerned, the priority remained the biological will measure. Then we asked... president. Compared to the priorities listed in the calendar, the request was to anticipate the ius soli.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u101	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2801, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Mantero and others deputies; Locatelli and others; Murer and others; Roccella and others; Nicchi and others; Binetti and others; Carloni and others; Miotto and others; Nizzi and others; Fucci and others; Calabro and Binetti; Brignone and others; Iori and others; Marzano; Marazziti and others; Giordano Silvia and others, 5, 13, 87, 177, 443, 485 and 1973. I call the President of the 12th Chamber. Permanent Commission, Senator De Biasi, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u102	Mr President, the examination of the draft law No 2801 and the draft laws and petitions associated with it was initiated on 2 May 2017... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u103	Please, ladies and gentlemen, be quiet because you can't hear.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u104	DE BIASI (PD). As I said, the examination of the draft law No 2801 and the draft laws and petitions associated with it was initiated on 2 May 2017 in session No 444 of the Health and Health Commission. Immediately after the explanatory report, with which the incardination took place, the Commission agreed to adopt as the basic text the bill No 2801, already approved by the House, and to carry out a series of informative hearings. 16 meetings of the Bureau have therefore been devoted to the conduct of the information hearings, with a total of more than 50 auditors. After the hearings, work continued in plenary with the general discussion (20 speeches), the rapporteur's reply, the presentation and explanation of the amendments (about 3,000 proposals for amendments to the basic text, then reduced to about 2,700 due to the withdrawal of part of the amendments of the Alternative Popular-Centrist Group for Europe-NCD). Now that the amendments have been examined, Senator Gaetti has called for the use of the anti-obstruction technique known as 'kangaroo', i.e. the putting to the vote of the first part of a specific amendment, common to a number of subsequent amendments, in order to achieve a preclusive effect and significantly reduce the number of votes. In the face of the protests of Senators Laura Bianconi and Giovanardi, the question of the usability of the kangaroo in the referent has been submitted to the Presidency of the Senate, which has confirmed how it can be used in this institution, of very rare use in the Commission, only in the presence of unanimous consent, or in case of imminent calendarization of the measure in the Assembly. Since none of the above conditions of application existed - in the presence of a still very large number of amending proposals to be examined and a clear tendency to speak in an explanation of vote on each amendment - I had to take note, also in my capacity as rapporteur to the Commission, of the objective impossibility of completing the examination in the referee in time for the subsequent debate of this House. After several calls for a reduction in the number of amendments, both in formal and informal terms, I finally gave up my position as rapporteur, while at the same time expressing the hope that draft law No 2801, already adopted as a basic text by the Commission, would be taken into account as soon as possible in order to be discussed in the Assembly without report (the resignation of the rapporteur was communicated to the Commission at session No 503 of 26 October 2017). In essence, the examination of draft law No 2801 was concluded in the Commission and connected, after about five months of work, 16 meetings of the Bureau, 22 meetings of the Commission in plenary session. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to what President De Biasi has said, the draft law No 2801, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the House of Deputies and without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u106	Mr President, in order to clarify this issue, I would first like to remind you that all associations in favour of euthanasia are in favour of the draft law in our examination. It is not by chance that they are in favour of a bill that speaks of DAT, but in reality it introduces an element of extraordinary novelty in our legislation which, however, is totally contrary to the principles of our Constitution and not only. In fact, it is peaceful - and no one discusses - that in the Italian legal order it is provided that no health treatment can be carried out or continued in default of the previous and explicit consent expressed by the person concerned. So the patient can decide in full science and consciousness: if he has a leg in gangrene and wants to die, no one forces him to cut off his leg or to undergo certain therapies. He is very free to dispose of his life. That's clear. We have moved from a function of the doctor that was predominant to the concept of therapeutic alliance: it is the patient, together with the doctor, who decides the therapies to be followed. From this principle of the full availability of a person conscious of his or her life, we have gone to harm international standards as well. In fact, we did not vote for it in this House, but Italy has signed the Oviedo Convention, which provides, in Article 9, that the so-called wills we are talking about, which are not topical, because they may have been written even twenty or thirty years earlier, will be taken into consideration by the doctor, without any binding obligation. Therefore, the mandatory nature of this law is not recognised in any European country. No European country obliges a doctor to comply with a provision drawn up ten or twenty or thirty years earlier, without being updated on the true will of those who, for example, had a road accident or stroke and who, on the basis of that provision, cannot be cured, even if the stroke is treatable or if the trauma from a road accident can be resolved positively. There is, in fact, the presumption of this expressed will, perhaps, many years before, that it has nothing to do with therapeutic aggression. Perhaps the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement Group escape that the sanitary directions today not only do not want the therapeutic ferment, but they are also very careful to make the budgets square; therefore, the less they spend to cure a patient, the more satisfied they are. It's not therapeutic. Today we are heading in the opposite direction. We are all in complete agreement against therapeutic behavior, but something quite different is happening here. Think of the case of the minor, the child who cannot express his will and does not leave statements, as I said before. And look, I'm talking about situations in which Italian civilization is very advanced; I'm thinking about the League of the Golden Wire, in which blind, deaf and dumb children are lovingly assisted; I'm thinking about situations of very serious infirmity, which are treated by associations of people who take care of them. Well, if a doctor decides that one of these children must die and the parents, as happened in England, instead they believe that he should not die, but that he should be cured or that he has the right to live and that his life is still dignified, who is it that decides, according to this bill? It decides the magistrate, who, even against the will of the parents, can establish that that child - or that adult, in the case of dispositions - dies of hunger or thirst. Thus, this bill provides, by classifying simple nutrition or hydration as therapeutic activity, that it is the judge's decision in the case of a minor or of whom twenty years earlier deposited the provisions. Then, deposited where? One of the truly incredible features of this bill - I still thought Italy was a united Republic - is that the provisions must be deposited in the individual regions; there is no national register of provisions, in which you can check whether a person has left different provisions in Emilia and then, having gone to work in Puglia, left them in Puglia. Not even that; there is not even a national register. Both the adult who is in these conditions, and the child, for whom others decide, are left to die of hunger and thirst, are no longer fed until they die. This is the passive euthanasia solution governed by this text. That's what it says. I wonder if you think this is a step forward in civilization, considering that the doctor cannot even object to conscience and cannot intervene in this situation. Rightly Professor Gigli today told us that, after 30 years in the hospital, according to this law, if a person with a stroke came and he intubated and saved her, bringing her back to a normal relationship life, the relatives would applaud him; but if, intubating her, he were to report damages and not return perfectly normal as before, they would sue him, saying that he violated the provisions. What are you doing, then? He lets her die, even if he knows he can save her? And in case of a car accident, how do you behave? In violation of the disposition or, since conscientious objection is not permitted, must it violate the oath that is made to all doctors, in medical ethics? The doctor's duties and competences are the protection of life and psychophysical health, the treatment of pain and the relief of suffering, respecting the freedom and dignity of the person. This measure goes in exactly the opposite direction. Then, of course, there is a whole series of cases that are totally different from those we are talking about and are dealing with end-of-life arrangements, something that is not only completely different, but that is contrary to international conventions and our constitutional principles. We therefore ask that this question be voted on and that we do not proceed with the examination of the unified text, also reminding the parent company Zanda that in the five years of the previous legislature the measure had already been approved by a branch of Parliament and was blocked by the obstructionism of the then minority. I would also remind the President of the Senate and colleagues that there is a document from the Democratic Party of the last parliamentary term, which I believe will be read in the Assembly by other Members, according to which nutrition and hydration are not medical care and must always be safeguarded. I wonder what happened if an entire party and an entire parliamentary group in five years had radically changed their minds and, from a position of this kind, moved to a diametrically opposite idea. [[Comments of Senator Manconi]] Probably the answer lies in the next political elections, in the alliances they want to shape, in the ideological battle they want to make. However, under this ideological battle there will be tens, hundreds, thousands of cases that have nothing to do with the pitiful cases that have been emphasized in public opinion. Moreover, through an inevitable step you will also measure the dignity of the lives of minors, there will be someone who will decide for the family whether a person has to live or die. This is not a theoretical thing, just read the contents of the bill. That is why we hoped that in the Commission we could agree on certain profiles, on certain limits, but for the umpteenth time we will be faced with a diktat for which any improvement or suggestion will be rejected biased. All we have left is to announce that, if this political area has a majority in the next parliamentary term, the law you want to impose will certainly be changed, improved, to give an answer in accordance with the principles of our Constitution. [[Applause from Senators Fucksia and Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u107	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, no more than one representative per group may speak during the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u110	Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, we are preparing to examine a draft law on advance treatment provisions which presents many critical profiles, as has already been widely demonstrated and anticipated by more than 250 lawyers in their public statements. It runs counter to Articles 2, 3, 13 and 32 of our Constitution. First of all, with respect to the draft law on the end of life adopted in the 16th legislature, which was not approved by the Senate for the end of the legislature itself, the term "provisions" has replaced the term "declarations." The statements certainly had value, while the arrangement is something that no one can refute, so the doctor is reduced to a testamentary executor. Moreover, in this regard we know that our Constitution prohibits euthanasia, the murder of the consentant, the incitement and the aid to suicide, but in reality we see that in this case the good of life is made available (in contrast to what our Constitution states) and therefore, as life is available, blood, a kidney, the sale of an organ of ours, of our body (I think, for example, of the practice of the uterus for rent). So it definitely goes against a very important constitutional principle. There is another very important point, which concerns the definition of the terms "nutrition" and "hydration." Now, the fact that these are not considered care treatments of the person but health treatments is really something that leads the person to death, to heinous sufferings. Therefore, it is certainly a hypocritical way of wanting to accompany, as they say, the statements and provisions of the person himself. The suppression and interruption of nutrition and hydration oblige the doctor to actively contribute to the death of the patient. And this becomes an act of active euthanasia. We do not talk, then, about the withdrawal of DAT (anticipated declarations of treatment). Clearly, a person can withdraw his/her own dispositions, but if the person is not conscious at the moment when, as has already been pointed out, she is hospitalized, in what situation will the first aid doctor be in when he/she has to decide quickly whether to intubate or not a patient, perhaps in front of statements issued, but then forgotten, twenty years earlier? So, what does the doctor do? If you save the patient's life, you will receive family thanks, which will say it is a miracle that the patient is alive. But if, by chance, the doctor intubates him and then from the results of the pathology for which he was intubated should cause damage, the doctor will be reported, perhaps even by the family member or the patient himself. So what should a doctor do? I wonder. And how can one think of not having a national register, so that a doctor can immediately be aware of what the patient has declared in Piedmont or Calabria, in case he is, perhaps, obliged to intervene in Puglia? What are you waiting for? We have to renew our driving licence, we have to renew our identity card, we have to renew our passport but, for these statements, it is enough just a registration made perhaps between boys, on a phone with witnesses, so that they are valid forty years later, when one has forgotten them. That sounds like a really bad thing to me. Let's not talk about child discipline. The case of the child Charlie Gard has already been mentioned. Basically, in case there is a therapeutic alliance between the family and doctors in supporting the therapy of the minor person, if someone does not agree the judge intervenes and you do what the judge says. I really believe that a lot of thought should be given. Reflections that were not made in the Commission where, however, we would all be prepared to improve the text and withdraw certain amendments. You wanted to make it quick, you wanted to make a flag law at the end of the legislature. And it is a bad law, which will harm the people who would like to guarantee their rights so much, publicly. The measure also upsets Article 13 of the Constitution, because it is known that, in the matter of inviolability of the rights of the person, if a doctor does his job, he goes against Article 13. But what is a doctor? Is he violent? Is your action comparable to kidnapping? I really wonder how this is possible. Also in Article 1 of the measure, in paragraph 6, the doctor is always subject to complaints or actions of damage without any guarantee. If the doctor respects the patient's will and lets him die, he may in any case incur criminal complaints or civil actions of family members who will object to not having practiced the new therapies. If you fail DAT and treat the patient with health care, you will face similar complaints if the recovery is not 100% certain. There is no question of conscientious objection because the text explicitly states that any person and health structure, whether public or private, must enforce the law. So, cancel the conscientious objection. We know that there is a code of ethics for doctors and this bill goes exactly in the opposite direction to what a doctor swears when he becomes a doctor officially, contrary to the Oviedo Convention and to many other conventions on the dignity of the person. That is why we are asking that the measure should not be examined. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u113	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, as far as I am concerned, there are epistemological reasons which lead me to oppose this measure, but we will talk about them elsewhere. I would just like to focus on one profile. Mr President, there are two positions on this issue, both legitimate; one has been expressed, albeit incidentally, by my colleague, Mr Gasparri, when he declared himself opposed to this bill because it is contrary to any law on this subject, considering that we should not legislate on this issue and rather put back to the therapeutic alliance between doctor and patient. On the other hand, another trend is that in certain situations knowledge of the opinion and determinations of the one who is in a situation of unconsciousness can help in making decisions. There are these two trends, Mr President, because it is clear that we are moving on a very sloppy line here, which is precisely the grey area that is created between life and death when there is no longer any capacity to understand and want. This second trend, of those who believe that we have to legislate, at a time when they say that we have to have a law on the biological will, basically states that it is good that there is the opinion expressed in its own way and according to the established rules of the one who comes to find himself in a state of unconsciousness and that these opinions have a weight, are taken into account. Of course, since this is a grey area, if we make such a law, we must, Mr President, have a certain flexibility within it, which is not rigid because otherwise we risk violating not only the Constitution, but also common sense. I am among those who believe that a law on biological will can be useful, but if the law has these requirements, that is, it is not a law that stiffens things to the point that it can become contradictory and dangerous. As far as this evening's subject is concerned, namely that of the violation or possible violation of constitutional principles and, allow me, even if it is reasonable, I will only dwell on two aspects, precisely because I absolutely do not want to abuse the patience of this House and not even have a obstructive attitude. The first is the position in which you come to see your doctor. The fact that the doctor is conditioned by the opinions expressed by the patient, is a principle that is part of the therapeutic alliance; that he is also helped by a person, of whom the patient has confidence, the so-called trustee, is something that not only can, but must be taken into consideration if we want to make such a law. The fact that the doctor is forced to follow an interpretation of that opinion and of those provisions, although in conscience he does not think them right and sensible, Mr President, is something that is certainly contrary to the Constitution. It also contrasts with common sense and professional ethics, with that oath of Hippocrates to which a doctor refers when he takes up the irons of the profession of this profession. And that, Mr President, for various reasons. First of all, there's one. When we talk about this grey state, we refer in particular to degenerative diseases, which therefore also have a very long development and which then arrive at the state of unconsciousness maybe many years after they have been contracted. I must say that some in this House - and I among them - have had this experience also for family reasons. And what happens? That if the dispositions were written at the time when the disease was contracted or even there was a dialogue, which is sometimes even more binding than the statements, between the sick and a family member and between this moment and the unconscious pass a few years, during which perhaps some elements of fact have changed (the therapies, the validity of the treatments or their effects, no matter how), who must evaluate all this, if not the doctor? And why force him to become simply an executor, even forbidding the possibility of conscientious objection, that is, the possibility, in the end, to say that he disagrees and that his conscience does not allow him? The fact that we move on a very thin thread and that, objectively, we risk to confine ourselves to something else that are not the pre-emptive declarations of will is also given by that provision that is eager to lift the doctor from all civil and criminal liability. But if the law does this, evidently, there is almost a suspicion that its excessively rigid application can lead to even trespassing on civil law and criminal law. Mr President, I believe that this is certainly contrary to professional ethics and most likely violates some of the fundamental principles of our Constitutional Charter. With great humility I raise these issues which I hope can be taken up further. These are serious issues that should be considered in some way. Just as, Mr President, always from the same origin, that is to say excessive rigidity of the consequences linked to the DAT, there is another objection that I would like to make, concerning the formalization of the DAT itself. We are in a country where privacy is sometimes protected even with respect to the advertising that comes to us in the mailbox; instead, we see how it is protected in relation to statements made by those who want to use this law: Mr President, there is no protection. Above all, a very serious issue such as that of the register is completely underestimated by the legislation, not just for the reasons that have been said by colleagues. Mr President, we can regionalise everything, but not a register. You cannot leave statements in "antithesis" between them in Puglia and in Basilicata, perhaps because we speak of a scientific informant who frequents these two Regions. In addition to that, Mr President, there is another problem: there is no certainty about the authenticity of the statements; they can emerge at any moment, they may have been released in a state of drunkenness. There is no formalization of the declaration which corresponds in some way to the rigidity of the consequences that it determines. And what strikes me - and I shall then do so, Mr President, because I believe that I have abused time slightly and I apologise - is that this vagueness of the moment when the statement is made corresponds, instead, to a very strong rigidity when the statement is withdrawn: in that case there is a need for two witnesses plus the doctor. I would like to bring all this back from the summits of the Constitution to practical life and think about what the consequences in practical life can be from these contradictions and inappropriateities. All this could have been resolved by putting hand to this law, but the fact that it must pass into the same identical text of the Chamber prevents us and this is another rigidity, which goes to add to the rigidity of the law, probably determining a result not up to the seriousness of this topic. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI), GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI, SA) and FI-PdL XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u116	Mr Manconi (PD). Mr President, senators and senators, I believe that we are all aware of the extreme delicacy of the matter we are dealing with, but this delicacy requires both that we maneuver it carefully and that we have the utmost respect for the truth issues to which it refers. I think that the text in question is not only perfectly and clearly consistent with the constitutional dictation, with what Article 32, explicitly with what it derives from jurisprudence and scientific literature, but also that it is a text that maintains its own measure and essentiality. I am referring to the ability to remove this issue from the darkness in which it is usually placed and, therefore, from everything that is illegal to it when such a delicate problem is not regulated. Why did I say "an effort of truth"? Because here again, this afternoon, I have heard a statement that I consider to be feared and above all gravely offensive: to make the suspension of artificial nutrition and hydration equivalent to the practice of reducing someone in a condition of subalternity by removing bread and water. Well, that doesn't answer the truth. That's all I'm saying, because I don't want to use strong words. When using formulas of this nature, such as: "to remove bread and water" from someone, that is, to induce hunger and thirst, it is evidently ignored that artificial nutrition and hydration are precisely health treatments that meet protocols and criteria, that are all entirely within a medical practice and that this is constantly reiterated not only by the great part of scientific literature, but, for example, by the declarations, repeated over the years, of the associations of doctors that have as specific competence exactly the issues of artificial nutrition and hydration. So we are talking about therapies, medical and health treatments, which are not by chance applied by specialised health professionals. I say this precisely because I am really worried about a debate that starts immediately with obvious manipulations of reality data. After that, if we want to go to the heart of the matter, I think that certainly the therapeutic alliance - this fundamental category in the treatment relationship - is something extremely delicate and extremely valuable, which must constantly be put at the center of the patient's care activity. However, we must also consider the moment when that therapeutic alliance is no longer effective. We must consider a whole path, that is, a journey along which the sick person can reach a final point, where that alliance, for the most diverse reasons, does not work. So here we have a big question, which is first and foremost an ethical question, which must necessarily be translated into a question, reduced to the essential: who decides for me? It is always desirable, it is always the solution not only the most prompt, but also the most intelligent that the decision of the patient is not a solitary decision, that it is the result of a system of relationships, a relationship with a medical structure, an assiduous presence of a health care worker next to him and, as long as this is possible and as long as it contains a true sense of relationship, around him of his family, his environment, his system of relationships. But when all this goes to end, the question returns and it is an inexorable question: ultimately, who decides for me? Here we could use a famous phrase, which became the foundation of liberal thinking and attributed to John Stuart Mill, when he says: my sovereignty is affirmed over me and my body. Sovereignty over himself and his own body, that is: at the moment when the decision is all and only mine, I must have the power to choose, I must have the power to decide. This is the right to self-determination, which is the essential foundation, even the most precious, the founding factor of the human person himself. Without that right to self-determination, the very concept of the human person is strongly put into crisis. That right to self-determination qualifies the personality, qualifies the identity of the human being, gives that human being the strength of his dignity and protection of it. Either we consider all this and, I repeat, we must consider it in the last instance, when all other attempts, all other strategies, all other therapies, all other forms of relationship prove ineffective, or we would deny not only Article 32 of the Constitution, but precisely this, which is the essential core of the human person. We must be aware of this. We are talking about this and if that is what we are talking about, we will certainly have to study all the forms, the most suitable, all the constraints, the smartest, all the structures, the most appropriate, so that the right to care is guaranteed, so that all therapeutic strategies are tempted; but then, ultimately, who decides for me? This is, in my opinion, the essential issue, and it is an essential issue that is recognised precisely in the constitutional dictation. If, then, we try to reason in these terms, I think we will find that this bill, presented here as a machineful and authoritarian, is actually a measure that guarantees freedom and autonomy and guarantees the right of care until that right can be exercised. Finally, Senators and Senators, Mr President: we must be very careful. So far, in all the speeches I have heard, I have felt like a great removal factor: there is something that has not been called up so far. We are talking about biotestation, about an early declaration of will and treatment and in this debate there is no one who should be at the centre of all our reflection: there is no pain. Biotestament, the early declaration of treatment to this point: to the great question of human suffering deriving from pathologies. Well, Italy is a particular country from this point of view: pain is almost considered an inevitable side effect of the pathology, something necessary and inevitable. It is not by chance - it is just enough to verify it - Italy is the country where palliative care is less cultivated, where the medical faculties where these therapies are studied are the least frequented, where hospices, starting from Central Italy, do not even exist. Italy is the country that for decades has been at the last or the penultimate place in the European rankings for the use of medicines containing morphine, and why? Because the question of pain is not considered, analyzed, treated as a real pathology, but as something however secondary or, in any case, inevitable. It is for this reason that I am amazed when we talk about everything, we consider all the limits of a law, we denounce its rigidity, but we do not put at the centre the essential question: how to reduce the suffering that pathologies inflict on those martyred bodies, those bodies damaged by suffering, a suffering that is both physical and spiritual, because when pain becomes impossible, when it becomes not soothable, it is not only the organism that suffers, it is the spirit itself, it is what we call as we want (soul, personality) that is strongly affected by it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. Mr Manconi (PD). For all these reasons, I believe that we are in the presence not only of a measure that is absolutely in full constitutional coherence, but of a sacrosanct and reasonable measure. [[Applause from the PD and Art. 1-MDP.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u119	MARINELLO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I am sorry, I intend to speak and make full use of the ten minutes at my disposal, so if you allow me the ten minutes and then the vote is then there, it is okay, otherwise, if the end of the work remains rigidly fixed at 7.30 p.m., it is quite clear that I must ask you to postpone my speech until tomorrow morning.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u120	You do your surgery, and then when we get to 7:30, we'll interrupt. MARINELLO (AP-CpE-NCD). I shall then make my speech in two stages, half today and half tomorrow. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's 7:25? I thought it was 7:20. In that case, I shall refer the continuation of the debate on the draft legislation to another sitting where you may speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u123	PHASE (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly to ask the question 3-02812 on ship ballast waters, which I tabled on 3 May 2016, and which is very important in order to ensure the balance of the marine ecosystem. I urge you before the end of the parliamentary term because this is an important phenomenon for the spread of alien marine species. These are animal organisms, plants or pathogenic bacterial forms, alloctonous organisms nesting in ballast waters. I inform you that from the presentation of the question to today our Country has not yet ratified the Convention for the control and the management of the ballast waters and the deposits of the ships, adopted in London 13 February 2004, and I have been confirmed that our inspectors, in the absence of the ratification from our Country, cannot verify the application of such Convention in the control of the ships that make call in the various national ports. For a more detailed examination of the obligations of compliance with the Convention I refer to a recent circular of 5 October 2017 of the international organisation Paris MoU, which illustrates in detail the timing of adaptation of the ship to the new provisions. My question is an invitation to the Government not only to respond, but also to promote ratification of the London Convention as soon as possible, in order to comply with the environmental commitments we have made over the past decades. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u126	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, knowing that we are at the end of the parliamentary term and that perhaps it will not be very simple, it would be very desirable for you to bring to the Government the request of my Group to have our Foreign Minister here in the next few hours, because today, under the silence of our Parliament, because we are committed to doing something else, and it is understandable, but with great clamour in the public opinion of the whole world, an event has happened in my opinion of great seriousness, full of enormous risks. I am referring to the wicked choice of the President of the United States of America to move the American embassy from the city of Tel Aviv, where it has been for decades, to that of Jerusalem, which you know well to be a city not only of God, as is well known, but also disputed, at least in its sacred and symbolic places, from different "options." Now, you understand - and I think my colleagues understand that too - how huge risks can be involved in such a choice. These hours are the news of a great concern that involves not only the Arab world, but also the European Chancellors, many of whom have spoken with words of great concern and criticism very strongly towards the President of the United States of America. I am very impressed that the Italian Government has not spoken in relation to what has happened and I think it would be very useful for us in this Parliament to listen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, at least to make Italy's voice heard on the matter. Moving the United States Embassy to Israel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem is an act of enormous risk and I believe that all women and men of good will, who care about the great themes of peace and the free coexistence of people, should feel very concerned about what is happening in these hours and which occupies the front pages of all the world's newspapers at this time. We are talking about a matter of first magnitude and it would be very useful if the Senate could, even briefly, deal with it in the next few hours, at least in the Commissions. [[Applause from the Mixed and PD Groups and Senator Orellana.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u127	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-05-LEG17-Senato-sed-913.ana.u128	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, December 6, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.31 a.m.
