ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 12 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Rome, 16 January 2017 Mr President, I inform the S.V. that by decrees of the President of the Republic today, adopted on my proposal, after approval by the Council of Ministers, pursuant to Article 10 (3) of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, of the delegations of functions conferred by the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the Interior, the Economy and Finances, economic development, agricultural food and forestry policies and infrastructure and transport, has been awarded the title of Deputy Minister to the respective Subsecretaries of State at the same Dicasteries Dr. Mario GIRO, sen. Dr. Mr Filippo BUBBICO, on. Dr. Luigi CASERO, Dr. Mr Enrico Morando, on. Teresa BELLANOVA, sen. prof. Andrea Olivero and sen. Riccardo NENCINI. F. to Paolo Gentiloni Silveri.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u5	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. The Conference of the Leaders approved the agenda of the Shareholders' Meeting until 2 February 2017. At today's afternoon sitting, general discussions will take place on the proposal for the establishment of the Single Chamber Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and the bill of establishment of the National Day of Civil War Victims. At tomorrow's afternoon sitting, the Minister of Justice will present his report on the administration of justice. The timing of the debate, at the end of which policy instruments could be voted, was distributed among the groups. At the first point of tomorrow's afternoon sitting, at the request of Senator Zeller, the statement of urgency on constitutional bill No 2643, concerning the Ladin linguistic minority, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, will be placed. The schedule of the week includes, in addition to the follow-up to the investigation of feminicide and bill no. 2542, the continuation of the discussion of motions on minimum pensions and the Casini motion on the crisis in Venezuela. During the afternoon session of the question time on Thursday 19 January, the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea will answer questions on issues related to air pollution and on the management of the waste cycle, with particular reference to the reclamation of sites of national interest. Next week will be discussed the report of the Anti-Mafia Commission on Mafia and criminal infiltrations into lawful and illegal gambling as well as - where concluded by the Commissions - draft laws on the protection of unaccompanied foreign minors, the fight against cyberbullying and citizenship. The calendar also includes the report of the Junta of the elections on the contested election in the Liguria Region and the motions on women's cancers and second-class teachers and on the qualification of precarious teachers. At the opening of the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 25 January, the call for the election, by secret ballot, of a Commissioner of the Authority for Communications Guarantees and of a member of the Presidency of the Court of Auditors will take place. Then the ballot boxes will remain open until 1 p.m. Also on Wednesday 25 January will be put to the vote the resignation presented by Senator Vacciano. The calendar of the week from 31 January to 2 February provides for the discussion of decree-laws on the protection of savings in the credit sector and extension of deadlines. The question time will take place in the afternoon session on Thursday 2 February. The Conference of Leaders also established the timetable for the draft laws establishing a Committee of Inquiry into the banking system on 16 February. The Government's report on Italy's participation in the international missions, presented yesterday, will be referred to the 3rd and 4th Commissions, pursuant to Articles 34, paragraph 1, and 50 of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u6	The Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - in accordance with Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following programme of the Senate's proceedings for the months of January, February and March 2017 - Document XXII, n. 34 - Establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the feminicide, as well as on all forms of gender violence - Drawing of law n. 2542 - Establishment of the national day of the civilian victims of wars and conflicts in the world (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Report of the Minister of Justice on the administration of justice - Document XXIII n. 18 - Report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of the mafia and other criminal associations, including foreign, on the mafia and criminal infiltration of war and conflict in the world (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies and other criminals infiltrations in the lawful of law n. 2583 - Provisions in the law of protection of foreign unaccompanied minors (Aproved by the Chamber of foreign minors, foreign associations, foreign associations, foreign associations and other foreign associations, foreign associations, foreign associations, foreign associations, foreign associations, foreign associations, foreign associations, foreign associations, foreign associations, etc etc etc etc etc etc etc etc, etc etc etc etc, etc etc etc etc etc etc to the in the in the in the in the in the in the in the in the in the laws in the laws in the laws and criminal in the laws and criminal in the laws and criminal in the laws in the laws in the laws and criminal in the laws in the laws and illegal laws of the laws and illegal of the laws and illegal of the laws and illegal of the laws of the law and the law and the laws and the law and the law and the law and the law and the law and the law and the laws of the law and the law and the laws of the laws of the laws and the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the laws of the law
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u7	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the following calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 2 February 2017: [[Tuesday 17 January pom. h. 16,30-20 - Doc. XXII, n. 34 - Institution Committee of Inquiry into Femicide - Drawing of Law n. 2542 - Establishment of civil war victims day (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Report of the Minister of Justice on the Administration of Justice (Wednesday 18, ant.) - Resolution on the statement of urgency pursuant to Rule 77 of the Rules of Procedure on the Constitutional Court n. 2643 - Amendments to the special statute for Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol on the protection of the Ladin linguistic minority (adopted by the Chamber of Deputies) - Motions on minimum pensions - Motion n. 709, Casini, on the Venezuela crisis Wednesday 18 " ant. h. 9,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 19 " ant. h. 9,30-14 Thursday 19 January pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Regulation to the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea on: - problems related to atmospheric pollution; - management of the waste cycle, with particular reference to the reclamation of sites of national interest]] The amendments to the Doc. XXII, n. 34 (Commission of Femicide Inquiry) and to the bill n. 2542 (Day of Civil War Victims) must be submitted by 7 p.m. on Tuesday 17 January. [[Tuesday 24 January pom. h. 16.30-20 - Possible follow-up of unfinished arguments - Doc. XXIII, n. 18 - Report of the Anti-Mafia Commission on Mafia and criminal infiltrations in the lawful and illegal game - Drawing of law n. 2583 - Protection of unaccompanied foreign minors (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 1261-B Contrast to cyberbullying (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2092 and related - Provisions in the matter of citizenship (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Vote for the election of a Commissioner of the Authority for Guarantees in communications (Vote by secret ballot by ballot) (Wednesday 25, ant.) (*) - Voting on the election of a member of the Council of President of the Court of Auditors (Secret ballot vote by ballot) (Wednesday 25, p.) (*) - Resignation of Senator Vacciano (Secret ballot vote) (Wednesday 25) - Doc. III, n. 2 - Report on the contested election in the Liguria region - Motions on female cancers - Motions Nos 589 and 590, Centinaire, second-class teachers and the qualification of precarious teachers Wednesday 25 " ant. h. 9,30-13,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 26 " ant. h. 9,30-14 Thursday 26 January pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The deadline for tabling amendments to Law No 2483 (Unaccompanied Foreign Minor Protection), No 1261-B (Contrast to cyberbullying) and No 2092 (Citizenship Provisions) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. (*) For both votes the call of the Senators will be made at the opening of the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 25 January. Then the ballot boxes will remain open until 1 p.m. [[Tuesday 31 January pom. h. 16,30-20 - Drawing of law n. 2629 - Decree-Law n. 237, protection of savings banking sector (final vote by February 4) (Scade on February 21) - Drawing of law n. 2630 - Decree-Law n. 244, extension terms (final vote by February 4) (Scade on February 28) - Eventually followed arguments not concluded Wednesday 1 February ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 2 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 2 February pom. h. 16 - Questions in immediate response pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]] Amendments to draft law No 2629 (Decree-Law No 237, savings protection in the credit sector) and No 2630 (Decree-Law No 244, extension of time) should be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 26 January. Time distribution for discussion of the Minister of Justice's report on the administration of justice (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: PD 41' FI-PdL XVII 21' M5S 19' AP (Ncd-CpI) 17' Mixed 17' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 14' ALA-SCLP 14' GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) 13' LN-Aut 12' COR 12' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2629 (Decree-Law No 237, savings protection banking sector) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 35' FI-PdL XVII 49' M5S 44' AP (Ncd-CpI) 40' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 33' ALA-SCLP 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2630 (Decree-Law No 244, extension period) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 35' FI-PdL XVII 49' M5S 44' AP (Ncd-CpI) 40' Mixed 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 33' ALA-SCLP 33' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u10	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we are, of course, very pleased that the measures relating to the protection of minors and, immediately after cyberbullying, ius soli and citizenship have been included in the agenda for next week's work. However, I would like to stress, also because it is an issue that we have put several times to the attention of the Conference of the Leaders and of the House, that for these measures the diction appears: 'where concluded by the Commission', I would therefore like to point out, Mr President, that we hope that the work in the Commission can be very expedited, but if it does not happen, at the next Conference of the Leaders we will ask for the measure to come to this House also with the examination in the Commission not concluded. Having said that, I would like to bring two questions to your attention. The first is a measure which has been in the Senate Justice Commission for a long time: the bill on the establishment of the torture offence. This is a question that concerns the legal civilization of our country, which I believe is necessary to address, all the more so in view of the report of the Minister of Justice, perhaps in the week that begins with the sitting on Tuesday 31 January. Secondly, at the Conference of the Leaders, we again discussed a number of measures which have long been laid down in the Commissions, including those relating to income of dignity or citizenship. Since the data that every day, in an inexorable way, come to the attention of all, like those published yesterday on inequality at world level and in our country, are frightening and those on poverty and the number of poor are really impressive and the provision in this matter has already been drafted unified text and many hearings have been held, I think it would be appropriate to finally insert the bill in our calendar, predicting its treatment maybe even in three weeks, so that there is the possibility to conclude it in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u13	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, we intend to propose that Mr Padoan's information on the news we have heard from the press about the European Union's desire to call for corrective action, which would amount to EUR 3.4 or EUR 5 billion (the size is not certain). We believe that Minister Padoan should inform the Chambers on this matter that we consider urgent. We would also ask for information from Minister Minniti on the cyber-espionage affair. We believe that it is useful and proper for the Minister to report back to the House on this matter. We also asked that this week, contrary to the timetable agreed at the Conference of Leaders, the examination of document III, No 2, of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities be placed on the agenda, with regard to the forfeiture of the parliamentary mandate of Senator Minzolini, which we have been dragging since before the summer. Among other things, last week's Conference of Leaders had almost decided to discuss this document together with Senator Albertini, so we wonder why it still does not appear in the calendar this week and has been included in the next week's calendar. We would then ask for the calendarization of the Senate Act 1148, first signed by Catalfo, on citizenship income. In fact, from the summary report of the sitting of 11 January of the 11th It appears that, following an intervention by Senator Catalfo, the President of the Commission Sacconi has stated that - I want to faithfully report - where they were scheduled in the Assembly, in accordance with Article 53, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate for the draft law of initiative of the opposition, the Commission would also be in a position to complete the examination of the bill on the income of citizenship and minimum hourly salary. I believe that, in view of a statement made by the competent President of the Commission, this House cannot be excluded from the timetable of the bill on citizenship income. These are our demands, which we ask to be submitted to the vote of this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u16	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, as has been said at the Conference of the Leaders, there is motion 1-00705, which was signed by Senator Malan and signed by members of all the parliamentary groups, with which the Government is asked to act in Europe towards the governing bodies of the European Community, so that the State of Taiwan can be included in the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), Interpol and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). There are three bodies in which this country has already participated in part. In the field of civil aviation we already have relations, with direct travel by our carriers and carriers of China Airlines, so it is clear that it is important to have a system that communicates and common rules governing flight safety. I must not dwell on the importance of bringing this country into Interpol, for all exchanges of knowledge and news for the purposes of international security. After Taiwan joined the World Trade Organisation (WTO), the World Health Organisation, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and other international bodies, it would be appropriate to integrate these three bodies, in which the presence of this State is still lacking. The motion has been signed by all and it is also of considerable simplicity, so I would ask you to discuss it quickly, perhaps even in this sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u19	FUCKSIA (Mixed). Mr President, once, while I was on the train, it was you who called me and asked me why draft law No 1482, framework law and delegation to the Government for the codification of animal protection legislation. Almost three years have passed and this bill has not yet been scheduled, not even in the Commission, despite the fact that the President of the Commission has spoken in favour of a quick timetable. I would point out that the examination of this bill would allow us to deal with the issues contained in all motions and drafts of law, whether on intensive farms, or on circuses, or on veterinary medicines and anything else, of different initiative, that are presented: this could be an opportunity to develop all these issues at once, with a simplification not a short time. As I see that events on animal protection events are organized, perhaps because it is a sensitive subject, but this approach is always bypassed, which is the only rational one that really leads to a step forward and a change of perspective, I wonder if in the end the media and propaganda effects should always have the better, rather than the interventions of substance. This is an intervention of substance and common sense. Meanwhile, it continues to reach me and the members of the Health and Justice Commissions an e-mail bombing of reminder (I almost have a box, between notices and e-mails) and I think that, if there had been a referendum, the yes would have won big. It is a sensitivity that has matured in the citizens, so a change is needed, a turning point. Hence my request to you, Mr President, which reassured me in this regard, given the many who stress its urgency to urge the Conference of the Leaders to speed up the examination of the measure, at least before the end of the parliamentary term. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator, I don't understand: do you want reminder or calendarization? FUCKSIA (Mixed). I want a reminder of calendarization. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, but at this stage, do you want to change the calendar? FUCKSIA (Mixed). President, since I am not listening, I use this window to repeat it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I listened to you, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u22	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would just like to make two points. First of all, if Senator De Petris excuses me, I would like to make a small correction: the bill on torture has been passed in the Commission on time justice and since then it has been in the Chamber. It is therefore not the Commission's responsibility to ensure that this bill is slow. Secondly, I would like to ask that the debate on draft law No 2291 on corruption, concussion and crimes against public administration be included in the timetable for the proceedings of this House, which will be decided unanimously in the Commission tomorrow. Consequently, I believe that it would be useful to schedule and quickly approve this measure in order to fill certain gaps currently affecting the area of crimes against the public administration. This is a very agile draft law in which, I repeat, unanimity has been achieved in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u23	We shall now proceed to the vote. I beg colleagues to get to their seats. I put a vote on the proposal to include further draft legislation in the agenda of the Assembly's proceedings. If the proposal is approved, we will then specify the various draft laws for which the timetable has been requested. It's not approved. PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to include the information of Minister Padoan and Minister Minniti in the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to anticipate in the calendar of the proceedings of the Assembly the examination of document III, n. 2, of the Junta of the elections and of the parliamentary immunitys on the elections in Liguria. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal that the debate on motion 1-00705, tabled by Senator Divina, should be included in the agenda of the Assembly's proceedings. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We have thus exhausted the votes on the proposals to amend the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u24	The next item is the debate on document XXII, No 34. The rapporteur, Senator Lo Moro, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur. [[Brusio]] I would ask colleagues to continue their discussions outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon I am asked to propose the adoption of a document providing for the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry into Femicide and all forms of gender-based violence. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u26	I beg the senators to be quiet. I can't hear what Senator Lo Moro says.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u27	THE DEAD, rapporteur. The document I am presenting to your attention provides for the establishment of a committee of inquiry into feminicide. We discussed this subject a few years ago, at the beginning of the parliamentary term. We discussed gender violence and agreed with the House on Law No 119 of 2013, which is very important. At that time it seemed that we had passed a fundamental stage and we can still see it as such, because the legislation we introduced in the Italian system is for the implementation and ratification of the Istanbul Convention. It is highly innovative, because it provides for a whole range of prevention mechanisms, as well as repression. In fact, the point of the debate is that, on gender violence, we have often talked, correctly and rightly, about repression, but the fact that this type of violence continues and increases statistically, as well as on the quality of crime, leads us to consider that it is no longer sufficient to talk about it only in repressive terms, which also remains an absolute priority, but it is necessary to intervene on consciences in preventive terms. That is why the first Commission has dealt with this document: it will be a tool for carrying out a series of checks whose objective is essentially preventive. The Senate is used to paying attention to the phenomenon because there has been a relay, very involved, that has seen many women and men speak and remember the victims of this violence. It is not just a matter of asking the House for more attention than it already is on this phenomenon, which would not be very easy, because in fact, we have always insisted on this sad affair. It is a question of understanding whether we can do something more, whether the legislator, before and beyond to legislate with measures that - we remember - at European level are considered at the forefront on the subject, as well as on anti-mafia, can go further and create tools of knowledge and investigation that allow us to enter into the substance of the problems in a radical way. In these days of winter suspension, among other things, our attention has been attracted - I am not surprised by this sudden (which, in reality, is not) calendarization of the bill - by numerous cases of feminicide: there have been many and have not stopped reporting until yesterday. The subject has never ceased to be of sad topicality. Among other things, the Head of State has dealt with it, the Pope has dealt with it and you yourself have dealt with it, Mr Grasso, who, with your presence at this time in this House, has an impact on giving authority to our debate. Therefore, even at the highest institutional and religious levels we have dealt with this problem which, as emerges from the analysis - alas only journalistic - of the cases that have occurred in the last days of feminicide and attempted feminicide, is not only the problem of an attention that women must claim: it is not a question of claiming anything, it is a question of achieving a level of quality in our democracy that allows an equal cohabitation and allows us to live, as they are acclaimed and defined, a series of values that have to do with men and women. Why do I say men and women? Why do I say it's not just a women's claim? The latest events and appeals that various quaestors have made to women to push them to denounce suggest that it is often also women who underestimate certain phenomena for a number of reasons, not least the lack of economic independence, fear or the presence of minor children. A whole series of circumstances lead to the same women, who within them fully understand the risks they are taking, to de facto underestimate the cases of violence and not to denounce. Women often underestimate even when denouncing and when it comes to real measures. I am talking, for example, about the last cases of feminicide against which measures had been taken in the past, not to mention the case of the dead woman stabbed two days ago, who had suffered enormous physical violence twenty years before, in the form of stabbed. The woman had then not filed a complaint and had let it pass, accepting the version of her husband, who had declared that it was not him and that he was not present at that time. In part this resembles what happened in these hours to the 22-year-old girl, who, in front of a scar, closed not so much behind a silence, but behind a defense of office of the boyfriend, accused of the serious attack on identity and beauty (as the victims of these episodes, of which I like to use the words) by herself immediately. A phenomenon that therefore needs greater attention from society, men and women, and needs strong cooperation from the victims. Currently there is no such collaboration and in order to obtain it there is a strong need for familiar remedies, first effective and then also communicated to the outside. It is these hours (and has ended in all newspapers) the story of a girl who has fought a battle to obtain a law that recognizes the compensation of victims, but Article 29 of the Istanbul Convention contains the principle that the state that fails to guarantee the victims must somehow provide for a fund equipped for this purpose. This girl took on herself the responsibility of a battle for a story that lived on her own skin. How can we expect women to report when they and their children are announcing a future, increasingly uncertain in the face of a complaint, because they may lose the only source of income and sustenance, not of tranquillity? Far away from her husband's violence can also mean not turning her away forever and for real and can also mean bringing the family into a situation of greater isolation and deprivation, sometimes with one of the two parents dying and the other ending up in jail or even suicidal. So why is the proposal of this Committee of Inquiry born? It was born first of all to try to make an effort to verify the degree of implementation of the Istanbul Convention and the existing legislation, because this year too the Government made the effort to release some sums for the anti-violence centers, but then there are always obstacles before all this becomes operational. These objectives could also be the subject of a cognitive investigation, in fact, but the investigation acquires value and value because this Commission and its members will deal with the feminicides that have occurred in the last five years, in search of the common red thread that binds these events. The goal, therefore, is not only knowledge. We must stop and stop the State in all its components thinking that violence within families is a private fact: it cannot be considered private the fact that in 2016, in Italy, at least 118 women were killed as women, because this is the feminicide, because they did not correspond to the type of woman that conventions consider the natural one and that at the beginning of the year we are already an alarming statistic. We can no longer regard what is a violation of human rights as a private fact, we have to go into the matter and we have to create mechanisms to allow the state to enter the families without always needing the denunciation of women and to monitor difficult situations. To do this, of course, we need to isolate the sentinel events, the events that occur, the behaviors, not only inside but also outside the family, for example the behaviors of the institutions that bring women closer - from ASL to prefectures, to the judiciary - that often do not put women themselves in the position to operate, to carry out complaints and to have the courage to get to the bottom of it. This, in a nutshell, is the objective before us, namely a defined objective that will lead us to conclusions, obviously not defined, because the Commission will have to go into the substance of the events in order to understand how a turning point can be made to the situation, what can be done for the victims of the attempted feminicides and also for the weakest and most fragile victims, who are the children of these women. It is not possible that society does not deal with it, not only because the Istanbul Convention tells us, but because we ourselves must understand that these are not ordinary orphans, in the face of the impotence of a State which allows hundreds of women killed every year, women who have no other fault than to rebel, not to correspond to the idea that their partner or boyfriend was made of them, very often. The State has strong responsibilities; responsibility which must be assumed towards those women and towards the women of tomorrow, who have not yet experienced these events, and must do so in a practical and concrete way also with regard to orphans. This will also be the subject of the Commission's attention: to understand what measures we need to take in relation to these circumstances. I will conclude my speech here because we will have the opportunity to return to this issue and because this is not a legislative proposal that already contains regulatory, administrative or other outlets in itself, it is a document that says something very simple and says it with great honesty: we have done so much, but what we have done to understand and predict is not enough. You have to go further. This is just a small tool that goes hand in hand with many other instruments, which often come out of the institutions. Today, from within the institutions, we say that we too, women and men, must take our share of responsibility to better understand how to combat this. This is important, especially today, not only because the phenomenon is rampant but also because equality between men and women, which this phenomenon strongly questions culturally, is an axis of the democratic system of the West that is put at risk by a whole other series of pitfalls, pitfalls that also come from elsewhere, for example from the various terrors that have, let's say, as a cultural matrix a whole different mentality. Therefore, to cultivate one's identity on respect and equality between women and men means also and above all to make such episodes become marginal, irrelevant from the statistical point of view and not, as sadly happens today, episodes so important and significant from the statistical point of view that they are structural. We must reject this. Can Parliament do anything at this time, at the end of the parliamentary term, at the end of a year of its natural conclusion? In the meantime, we're here and we have to do something. We have made our relay and today we are taking a step further: we are questioning ourselves and trying to understand this legislator and what else they have to do tomorrow to give an adequate response to this phenomenon. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u28	I declare the debate open. Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u29	Mr President, in our country, despite the alarming extent of the phenomenon of feminicide, there is currently no Commission of Inquiry dedicated to it. On the other hand, a Commission would be very important for an analysis and monitoring of violence against women. In this respect, this Commission will be very important. We must bear in mind that the resources for the anti-violence fund are absolutely small and that no action has been planned to deal with this phenomenon at present. From data actually from unofficial sources it would also appear that the phenomenon of feminicide has increased and that in the last ten years it has reached very worrying numbers. It should also be borne in mind that, in most cases, the perpetrators of these very serious crimes are linked to the victims by relations of kinship: often it is the fathers, spouses or former spouses. (17.14) (Follows STEFANI). Actually, speaking of feminicide may also seem improper: the murders of the woman as such always remain murders; killing a man or killing a woman necessarily involves equal penalties. But taking into account the phenomenon of violence and murder against women means evaluating not numbers but also motivations. The social dimension of the crime against women is often concealed by the domestic walls. We must bear in mind that violence against women and girls is also committed by relatives who kill women and girls because they do not accept the emancipation of their daughters or companions. We must remember that many facts of blood have affected foreign women living in Italy, who are victims of violence that is armed by an unreasonable submission linked to fanatic-religious dictates. It must be remembered that 86% of the Islamic women present in Italy are illiterate and do not even know the alphanumeric system; they do not even have the culture to understand that within the domestic walls a form of violence is being perpetrated against them, because they are born in a cultural environment where perhaps that attitude of submission is allowed and authorized. Let us remember that 80% of Muslim women do not leave their homes unless such women are accompanied. For very few of the 400,000 Muslim women present in Italy it can be said that they lead a normal life. In many families of immigrants, in fact, there is no equality of rights between men and women because they are born in a culture with completely different traditions; women who, unfortunately, are penalized by the lack of adequate education. Despite this, complaints have increased because a woman who lives in our country somehow comes to know the world outside of those domestic walls, and understands that very often masculinism or misogyny are simply masked by religious precepts: in reality they are nothing but tools to keep a woman submissive. There are particular forms of violence, such as imposing marriages, polygamy marriages; the same prohibition on women to integrate. Another very serious phenomenon is represented by the brides girls: girls forced to marriage because they are born in a culture that admits that a child can marry an adult man. In this sense, we as a Group of the North League have tabled a draft law and have signed another one with some members of the majority, who we pray will be called into question as soon as possible in the Commission, and therefore it will be launched by this House because a crime must be provided for by those who require a child to get married. It's not just about marriage, gentlemen, but it's about the consequences: the early parts, the sexual violence on these girls. It is very serious that, despite the fact that months have passed since we presented the draft law, this has not yet been discussed. A measure on this issue is urgent; it is urgent that this crime be foreseen and it is serious that it is not yet foreseen in Italy, just as it is in other situations such as Sweden. Colleagues, when we talk about feminicide, we talk about violence against women, about crimes against people, which, as we said, arise from a condition of weakness, in this case of women who are left to themselves, to live realities within the domestic walls for which they often do not even have the strength to react; they do not even have the strength to denounce for the fear of being killed, for the fear of suffering repercussions following that denunciation. Well, these women must be helped with great force; structures must be foreseen so that these women can feel protected and therefore denounce freely their executioners, hoping they are still in time to be able to denounce them because the murders, unfortunately, take place. And the murders happen because the partner or the parent or the former partner wants to exercise a domain over that woman and, when he sees her run away, he kills her. This is the most terrible thing, and it is because there are often no warnings; but it is even more terrible when the warnings are there: some women have denounced and that complaint has remained in the air, perhaps because those denounced seemed aggressive attitudes that could never have preluded an act such as a murder. I do not want to go back to old feminist speeches that seem to belong to other historical moments, but it is not true that there is equality between men and women in the absolute sense - just see the data too - as much as the woman is achieving great results in the world of professions. Let us think of the judiciary itself: it is very rich in women, as is the lawyering; there are also women in parliamentary fora who are proving to be very valuable. At the same time, there are tools, such as the media, in which, instead, the figure of the woman is sometimes completely distorted: advertising messages that tend to degrade the woman. They look beautiful, captivating; maybe someone can be smiling in front of the advertising message, considering that it is now part of our way of understanding. But if we analyze, we see women who may be subjected to extreme diets in order to be able to resemble that paradigm, the stereotype presented. Or maybe they try not to look so smart, because if you look too smart you can't get what that female figure in advertising seems to be able to guarantee. That is why it is important to set up this Commission of Inquiry. But let's set it up so that it has a meaning, which is to have data, but also to move forward on a program. And the program is to give culture to women; to foreign women, offering them the opportunities to have tools. The only thing we are allowed to stress is that violence against women is mentioned in this bill, yes, but there is talk of gender violence. The only thing we are going about is this: let us try to ensure that this measure is done for women, and that it is not used and interpreted differently. We're talking about women. We must focus and arrive at a measure that can obtain effective protection against this subject, which is really too weak in some situations. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u30	Senator Gambaro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u31	Mr President, the proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into feminicide and gender-based violence cannot but be welcomed. The statistics at our disposal are very alarming. There are over one hundred and ten cases registered in 2016, a slight decrease compared to 2015, but this cannot be a comforting element. In the last ten years the women killed in Italy have been 1,740, of which 1,251 (equal to 71.9 percent) in the family; and 846 of these (67.6 percent) within the couple; 224 (26.5 percent) at the hands of an ex. It's a real massacre. And if you go even further back in time, until 2000, record year with 199 crimes the figure rises to 2,800 feminicides. In the period 2005-2015, according to statistical data, murders within a couple had 40.9 percent of the cases a passionate motive, and 21.6 percent were caused by quarrels or disagreements. The most widely used weapons to kill were those used by cutting (32.5 percent) and by fire (30.1 percent) while in 12.2 percent of the cases improper weapons were used; 9 percent strangled the victim and 5.6 percent choked her. In 16.7 percent of the cases feminicide was preceded by known violence, in the sense that it is violence regularly denounced to the Forces of the Order. In three out of ten cases, the killer took his own life, and in 9 percent of the cases he tried and failed. As for territorial feedback, it is noted that in 2016 53.4% of feminicides (62 women killed) registered in the North (Lombardy in the lead) and 75.9% in the family. In the South the figure drops to 26.7 percent, in the middle to 19.8 percent. The average age of the victims is 50.8 years, and 92.5 percent of the cases are murderers. Even in 2016 the family (with 88 women killed, equal to 75.9 percent of the total), is confirmed the main context of feminicides. Less frequent crime among acquaintances (6 per cent), crime among common people (4.3 per cent) or conflicts of neighborhood (2.6 per cent) and economic or labour relations (1.7 per cent). Among the other family figures, the mothers, with fourteen victims, are the most at risk, equal to 16.3 percent of the total. Finally, there is the drama of the orphans, the children who lost their mother because of the murderer's father (or companion). Over the last fifteen years the number has risen to 1,628, little is said of them, being incredibly defined as secondary victims. Unfortunately, just as the number of women killed grows, there can only be an increase in the number of children who lose in a single moment, mother and father. In 2015 they were 118 more than the year before. These are the cold data. But from them comes the importance also of a Commission of Inquiry that sees us in the front row as parliamentarians in wanting to realize in a more profound and complete way the sad phenomenon, in analyzing the episodes of feminicide already happened, especially in order to help our action as legislators in the prevention key for the future, but also in monitoring the concrete implementation by our country of the Istanbul Convention of 2001, so that we do not remember the International Day for the elimination of violence against women only on 25 November, but every day until the profound maturation of consciences. It therefore announces our Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from Senator Amoruso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u32	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u33	Mr President, the proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry into feminicide is useful if we are already starting with the assumption that the results of his work will be used in the best possible way, i.e. by means of legislative production and measures that will finally put an end to this phenomenon, which has deep roots in the culture of our country, but above all in the interpretation of the relationship between man and woman, which is in the responsibility of the male part of society. Too many justifications have been put forward in these years, in these decades, on absolutely intolerable behaviours of gender violence and also on extreme acts such as feminicide. There cannot exist in civil society in this country any attitude of understanding and even less of justification of these acts and the most severe criticism must be addressed to those who, in the context of male culture, have supported and sometimes urged intolerable behaviours of man's management of the possession of women. I believe that we will have to think about this, that is, about the interventions that must be addressed from an early age in the education system and how it is necessary to educate all the subjects of our society to affections, so that respect for one another is the foundation of our relationship with the rest of the world, with other people. I think a lot can be done in school and also in workplaces. We must introduce elements of respect for women who reappraise everything, from economic treatment in the workplace, to the organisation of living time, to the attention of those who are often engaged on several fronts in support of society, their personal relationship with children and the family. In this sense, and because of the dramatic numbers provided by daily reports, I stress that it is no longer possible for every three days a woman to be made the object of violence and murderous violence, with a heinousness that has no margin of tolerance. We find not only the use of acid to strike and deface, even if the woman was saved from a terrible action like this, but also the use of fire: burned women live by their husbands, by their companions. These women, perhaps welcomed in the anti-violence centers, have been warned of violence against them by systematic behaviors, which have been denounced, made known to lawyers, law enforcement and the judiciary; and yet these women have been left in danger. I think that the phenomenon is the result of a subtle tolerance manifested several times, in several parts, also in the public organization of our country, beginning with politics. Today we will approve - I hope - the proposal to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry, but this must not be a justification for delaying still some urgent measures that the Government can take regardless of the Commission's work, which will begin, will be valuable and must be put into place. There is, in fact, an urgent need not to leave the women who are living in danger today alone, so that there is no underestimation of those warnings that systematically precede the acute drama of feminicide. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u34	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to extend the definition that is most commonly used in relation to the term 'feminicide', i.e. not only that of the Istanbul Convention, but also that of those who invented this term. Until the end of the nineties, in fact, there was talk of femmicide, then, in the early 2000s, a fantastic woman like Marcela Lagarde, anthropologist, academic and Mexican politics, came to the definition of feminicide, after having created a special Commission on the theme in the Congress of Mexico City, to investigate the numerous murders of Ciudad Juárez, a town placed on the borders between Mexico and New Mexico of the United States, then became famous with the film "Bordertown" that many of you will know. Through Marcela Lagarde, the crime of feminicide was established in the Mexican Federal Code and the general law of access for women to a life free from violence, which came into force in 2007. This term was subsequently adopted at international conferences on violence against women. Until 2006, the term was almost unknown in Europe, except as a result of the advertising for the film, which then caused a lot of stir, and became more well known after 2007 was proclaimed a European Year of Equal Opportunities. Lagarde wanted, therefore, to give a broader meaning to the end, not relegating it to the mere killing of a woman by a man. Says Lagarde: "Feminicide is in every historical or geographical context, whenever women suffer physical, psychological, economic, normative, social, religious, family or outside, when they cannot exercise the fundamental rights of man, because woman, or because of her gender". It has, therefore, extended the definition to all those conditions in which violence is such as to cause the physical and psychological annihilation of the female personality. The phenomenon of feminicide, i.e. the murder of women exclusively as women, and violence against women, such as acts of violence based on gender, which cause or are likely to cause physical, sexual, psychological or economic harm or suffering, including domestic violence, continues to remain at alarming levels both in our country and throughout the world. In a broader sense of the term, feminicide is committed in every historical-geographical context, whenever women suffer physical, psychological, economic, normative, social and religious violence, in the family and outside, when they cannot exercise - as I said before - the fundamental rights of man, because women and because of their gender. The fight against this phenomenon must take place within institutions and society as a cultural phenomenon and that institutions must support, disseminating as much as possible research, documents and collections of data on gender violence. The recognition of oneself by women as victims and the claim of this status are only possible in a political and cultural context that supports and supports the victims, who otherwise risk succumbing. Our country, with Law 119 of 15 October 2013 against gender violence, in implementation of the Istanbul Convention, has recognised violence against women as a violation of human rights and gender discrimination and as a social phenomenon that has its roots in the asymmetrical relationship of power between men and women. Law 107 of 13 July 2015 on the reform of the national education system, paragraph 16 of the single article, must ensure the implementation of the principles of equal opportunities, promoting in schools of every order and grade the education of gender equality and the prevention of gender violence and all discrimination. The proposal for Law No 1230 is currently filed in Parliament, submitted on 19 June 2013, on the initiative of the members of the Democratic Party Tentori and Braga, on the introduction of gender education in the educational activities of the schools of the national education system. It is therefore important to approve the establishment of this Commission as soon as possible, for these reasons and for what the rapporteur, Mrs Lo Moro, has just presented in her speech. We are faced in Italy with a veritable massacre of women, which we must stop as soon as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u36	Senator De Biasi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u37	Mr President, I find it more than appropriate to set up a Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of feminicide, not only because it is a pervasive phenomenon, everyday, very Italian, of Italian women and Italian men. This is the first consideration. I believe that we must investigate in depth, because there is something anthropological, very complex and not yet sufficiently investigated, I believe not even from scientific disciplines and psychoanalysis. What leads a man to consider a woman a complete and total property, more than an animal, more than one thing? In fact, I think that no one kills their dog and no one kills their cat; but there are many women who are killed. This is a dramatic and painful point, on which perhaps a more careful analysis of the structure of the family, of the shame of keeping everything in private, of social shame, of loneliness and - why not? - Connivance. They are all elements that should be looked at more deeply. I say connivance, because I think that we were all very impressed - at least I found it incredible - by the case of the girl whom the boyfriend set on fire and who defended him strenuously, saying that it was not him. I find the case of that mother incredible - it happened to me in a television show - whose daughter was killed with 37 stabbed in Venice a few years ago, who on television said: I forgive him, for he loved him. Then there is something more that I think should interest education, instead of such useless ideology about gender, so many empty words, so much blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. Perhaps it would be worth thinking about what it means to educate children in the culture of mutual respect and what it means to be parents of these children today, who maybe grow up and who for 80 euros have a friend kill the parent. Something is not working, Mr President. It is something much deeper. This issue is very closely related to health and health issues and not only to mental health. I am old school, and I do not think that there is monster syndrome, because our society is not full of monsters, but a society full of people obviously convinced that certain things can be done and that nothing happens if they do. That girl against whom the boyfriend threw acid, a candidate for Miss Italy, a beautiful girl - could be even ugly, in case she was beautiful - made only the mistake of trusting and agreeing to eliminate the 50 meters of distance imposed by the law on stalking. The price of this act of trust was probably his life. This is certainly about health care. Let's think about all the women passing through an emergency room, because that's what happens. Women go to an emergency room, where there is not always the training that should be there: there are fortunately many experiments in the field, but much more must be done to train health workers on the issue of emergency so that they can identify the case of violence - in fact, it is not even said that the case of abuse or violence is identified - and thus be able to send women to the anti-violence centres. The previous step is what is now officially missing. I hope that the Commission of Inquiry will also be able to open a window on this in order to verify the state of emergency, emergency and urgency, precisely in terms of training operators, because this is the way. ISTAT tells us that only 5% of women turn to an anti-violence centre, but we also know that maltreated women have common characteristics in the emergency room: they have panic crises, chronic headaches, chronic pelvic pains. It's a brutal statistic, but this is also a statistic. These women do not always tell the stories of violence, but the training of the operators can make sure that the phenomenon emerges in the most human way possible, because something is being done with the Forces of Order, in the first aid and emergency and urgency. Perhaps we need to step up our interventions more. Mr President, the data offered by the Policlinico and the E.R. of the Mangiagalli clinic in Milan show that from 2015 to 2016 there was an increase in cases of domestic violence and ill-treatment from 304 to 1.037. The emergency room at the Policlinico went from 178 in 2015 to 419 in 2016. It's an enormity, and we're talking about a place where there's monitoring. But in all those places where monitoring isn't there? What do we know? What will become of these women? I disagree that the woman is a weak subject. It's not like that. But women are brutalized with physical and psychological violence, but that doesn't mean weakness. This may possibly mean the weakness and deafness of society, politics and even some of the institutions. Mr President, that is why I hope that this Committee of Inquiry will start a monitoring phase. I think that the Ministry of Health should do its part and take care of the training of the operators. Finally, I would like to say that this Commission of Inquiry also has a duty, in my opinion, to investigate the male part, which is not being done at all. What happens to a man who commits feminicide? What kind of treatment is applied to him in prison? There are extraordinary methods and studies that would be time for them to enter fully into the institutions. It is a problem that concerns health, women and also deeply men because that violence, that brutal force - which is worse than that animal because it is ancestral - is a phenomenon that, if we do not fight it, we will struggle to tell ourselves a civil country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u38	Senator Bencini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that this Committee of Inquiry is being set up, even if I would have been more so if it had not been necessary because the fact does not exist. Unfortunately, however, this is because in the last four years, since I have been in Parliament, the number of women who have been victims of violence has been mentioned every year. In 2016, more than 100 women were killed at the hands of those who claimed to love them. We left in 2017 with at least - it seems to me - four victims in the last seventeen days. About a year ago, as an exponent of Italy of the Values, I had deposited bill No 2210 for the establishment of a Parliamentary Commission concerning this phenomenon. In this Commission, I wanted to see an analysis of the phenomenon and what we have managed to do in Italy. Our country is quite a leopard because there are situations in which a path has been set up to help women victims of violence. This helps prevent, even if not 100 percent, sexual violence or serious harm from the companion, even to death. I am reminded of the example, in Tuscany, of the hospital in Grosseto, where a specific path was created with the assignment of a pink code. In the hospital, if the operators in the triage suspect that a woman has suffered violence, there is a path that protects her, puts her on the net and supports her in finding concrete help to get out of the clutches of her partner or lover. What we did in 2013 with the ratification of the Istanbul Convention had great value. I am also thinking of the establishment of the Women's Violence Fund, although it is not enough because that fund covers the damage suffered by women if they are killed. In fact, the financial compensation to a woman who is no longer there, I don't think, is very valuable. This fund also grants compensation to women who have suffered sexual violence, while not helping women, for example, with legal aid. It only helps those who have a certain income. It is good that, when a woman has suffered violence and needs a lawyer who supports her on the path to claim the damage suffered, she can also be facilitated in this sense. I would also like to link myself to what the only man who has spoken so far, Senator Uras - I am pleased that he has done so - because I believe that, on the basis of the analysis of the situation in the various territories, it is important to devise appropriate regulations and, in any case, to implement a series of measures to prevent the phenomena in question. Another draft law that we tabled was intended to introduce amendments to the penal code, because we certainly believe it is important to prevent them, but it is also important at this point to repress these phenomena. When a man does violence to a woman, in my opinion and in the opinion of Italy of the Values that deposited the aforementioned bill, there is no need for pleas and discounts of punishment, because we believe them non-educational forms of reward and we believe that in this way the penalty may not constitute a deterrent. Probably, if the penalty were more incisive, people would think twice before implementing heinous attitudes. But I understand that the speech is very broad. I am reminded of another fact: for only thirty-five years now, since 1981, the crime known as a crime of honour has been repealed. I was a little girl when the rules on the crime of honor were lifted. Until thirty - five years ago, one could kill a woman who had betrayed her husband and the penalty was minimal - something like six years. This shows that in our country there is a somewhat special culture towards women. I want to take a further cue from the intervention of Senator Ricchiuti, who said the feminicide is not just killing, reporting Mrs. Lagarde's statements. It is true: feminicide is not only killing, but it is a much broader phenomenon. The famous physical, verbal and non-verbal violence is widespread against women and also represents a form of feminicide, so much so that there was a need to recognize - as Senator Uras said before - the difference between man and woman in the treatment of the parties at work. The single text on safety at work, No 81 of 2008, states that there is a gender difference between women and men and that women are subjected more to forms of aggression in a series of jobs they carry out in our society. Women often hold many welfare positions and are the front office outwards: from the simple order that addresses the public to nurses who do care, they are the first to be often verbally attacked; while in other more hidden areas they are physically assaulted or harassed to obtain a counterpart. Often a woman is not evaluated for her abilities and merit and if she grants something, she manages to rise to the level: these are a distorted mentality and culture that are part of the wider phenomenon of feminicide. It is not conceivable that a man approaches a woman thinking that, if he makes any concessions to her, he can in turn get something in return. We must, therefore, return to the discourse of education: certainly gender education within schools is fine, but we must combine the famous sentimental education on how to relate in this world between two beings of different genders. It is therefore important, starting from school age, from elementary schools or even before, to make clear the difference between the two parts and above all to teach the right sentimental education and respect for the other, so that, when you reach adulthood, you do not reach that conflict that tends to compress the wills of women and often to crush them. At the basis of all this I think there really are, a lack of culture and the inability to relate, so if people were to educate themselves from an early age you would probably be able to have a better world. I hope that in the time we have left - it is quite indeterminate since the legislature, which should end in 2018, hangs a sword of Damocles and so we do not know when it will end - we can start working. We will certainly draw on the data and make assessments that will remain in the proceedings and, if so, Parliament will be able to continue to work during the next parliamentary term on what has been produced by the Commission which will be set up. That is why the Group of Italy of Values will vote in favour of the draft law when we examine it. I wish good work to those who will be part of the Commission. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u40	Do you see what you're like? You can't do anything! You're crazy! You're fat! You're ugly! Femicide has roots that are rooted in everyday life, in trying to degrade you even in front of your friends. And the days of so many women, too many, are filled with insults, accusations, offensive acts that aim to hurt self-esteem and security and moral harassment, because it is from here that we must start if we want to defeat physical violence against women. One must not tolerate raised hands but neither humiliation, because it is from here that the chasm towards feminicide opens up by men who want to exercise power over women, control and crush them, over women too weak culturally, socially and economically to rebel. Psychological violence, stalking, personality attacks, mobbing are just some of the violence that women suffer every day, sometimes without realizing it. Others come to the conclusion that this is normal, but it is not. We must talk about it, without fear of being judged, but rather to be helped. It is the first step towards the fundamental freedom of all victims and of all people suffering inequalities. I wanted to have a much longer, full-bodied surgery, but time doesn't allow it. One thing I would like to add: unfortunately I had the misfortune to know women treated badly every day by her husband, treated really badly, that I advised to go to the carabinieri and beg to press charges, but they didn't make it, they didn't have that strength. Unfortunately, a woman I knew was killed exactly on December 26, 2014 and this fact remained in me. Every time I hear of people being attacked, raped, beaten, I, like so many others, always try to help and support them, but unfortunately it is not always good. Sometimes we talk about these facts in talk shows on television, but I would never report them on television because then these events are exploited and that is not good, it does not help in any way. I'm not going any further. I hope that the establishment of a Commission of inquiry will really open a door, a door and above all light a light to really help women, but sometimes men too, to understand. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u41	She is registered to speak Senator Bisinella. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u42	Mr President, we in the Mixed-Fare Group! We hope that the proposal to set up the Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of feminicide and its tragic events will be adopted as quickly as possible. I have to say that in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, sharing has been extremely extensive in order to speed up the process of approving the bill. I would particularly like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Doris Lo Moro, for the sensitivity she has shown since the beginning of the discussion, because she has been able to represent to us colleagues in the Commission the dramatic nature of all the data she has collected in the drafting of the draft law. This has enabled us to try to make a further contribution and to launch a useful instrument for the debate, especially in view of the aim that this Commission must have. Of course, it is not decisive, given the very large difficulty and complexity of the subject, but it can be a useful tool to help those who are already working at the institutional level, the law enforcement agencies, doctors and health personnel, the investigative and judicial judges, to address a subject that is dramatic enough to leave speechless. The reports indicate that the deaths of women are now daily. But in addition to this there is a multitude of episodes of physical, moral, psychological violence, or harassment, not to mention the cases of rape perpetrated at the expense of the youngest up to women of all ages, unfortunately hidden from the chronicles. We must never forget that the real tragedy is that the vast majority of women who are victims of violence still today do not have the opportunity or the courage to denounce. There are very few cases of complaints that even have a judicial start. The problem is that many women today do not denounce not only for fear of the consequences that can be suffered by those who exercise violence against them, but also because they do not feel protected and protected, adequately guaranteed by the system. Often the denunciations to the Forces of the order, when a help is given to the person who goes to press a complaint - it can be a emergency department but also a police garrison - do not always find results and feedback because, as long as the investigations start and a minimum of investigation is made, the criminal on the loose and in action is able to perpetrate, unfortunately until the extreme act of the killing, his criminal intent. The Commission, which is to be set up, I hope will have the objective and the task of providing an instrument for analysing and helping research into the origins of this type of phenomenon, in order to try not only to give a repressive response. I remember that, from the beginning of the legislature, from 2013 to today, many initiatives have been taken in Parliament and also here in the Senate: motions, questions and drafts of law presented in a transversal and shared way by all political forces, measures aimed at acting also on the repressive and criminal level. But we all know that this is not enough. Many initiatives presented and carried out also at local level, by the local institutions or voluntary associations that deal with these issues, are aimed at an aspect that is even more important to us, and that has also been recalled by colleagues who have preceded me: the prevention of the episodes and phenomena in question through education, training and personal growth, acting since the first years of our children's life. There is a need for action in schools through the training of young men and women in the approach to respect for the sexes, in particular through a new form of education which precisely concerns the acquisition of awareness of the need for mutual respect. It is also important the work that is carried out - I can witness it, for example, for the Province of Verona or for the Province of Treviso - by many centers that deal with the contrast to the forms of violence against women, and that also consists in helping and supporting those men who have the courage to turn to them when they realize that perhaps the episode of anger that they have lived has exceeded certain limits. They are men who have the courage to ask for help. We must not forget that this issue must be addressed not only by looking at the female world but also at the male world. Compared to everything that is happening, some data have been remembered. Let me make a brief mention of a dramatic scenario: from 2006 to 2016 the women killed in Italy were almost 1,800, 71 percent of whom in the family. This is perhaps an aspect that we cannot in any way pickle. Most of the time episodes of violence are perpetrated in the domestic and family context, within the couple, of family life, and therefore between partners but also between fathers and daughters, or at the hands of a former companion, a boyfriend, a husband. The latest episodes that the chronicles, unfortunately, tell us also speak of a hellishness, of an unheard of - I would say chilling - mode of perpetuation of violence against women that suggests almost a true crisis of social values that we are all now living. And this is perhaps the most alarming fact that leaves us completely speechless. There are many episodes, unfortunately, that make us think that in our society there is really a dramatic crisis of moral values. I therefore believe that analyzing this phenomenon in all its aspects, in its complexity, is fundamental not only - I repeat - in order to act on the prevention front, in trying to monitor all the measures put in place so far by the institutions to curb and combat the phenomenon, but also in order to verify what has obviously not been well, what needs to be done more in order to achieve at least the result of containing such episodes; to breach the cultural and personal formation of individuals so that over time, in society, we can overcome the dramatic crisis of values, and not only to give answers to the many victims that have been there and to their families. Let us think of children who often remain orphans and who live in family situations of this type; minors who have witnessed certain episodes: we must ask ourselves what measures should be taken to accompany them in a path of growth that does not leave them alone. We must put in place measures that not only assist at the immediate moment of the dramatic episode, but are also accompanying in their growth, because we must imagine all the possible consequences that can be generated. Not only do we have to give these kinds of answers and try to ask ourselves what urgent actions - even medium and long-term ones - can be, but we also have to give confidence and hope to all those women who are now, in these hours, suffering dramatically violence in every area, perhaps even in the workplace. We never forget that, in addition to the always remembered stalking cases, women often suffer sexual harassment at work that are never reported. We must try together to give confidence and hope to all women who have not so far had the courage to denounce, so that they can overcome certain moments and feel part of a system that protects them, protects them and is able to give timely answers. I also refer to a number of initiatives which have been taken so far, but which are certainly not enough. I like - for example - to recall the appropriation set out in the last budget law for five million euros for women who are victims of violence and their children; a figure destined for the three-year period 2017-2019, through an amendment shared in the Budget Committee and then approved in the House. These resources - and I remember this for this - will go to the Anti-Violence Plan that has been approved at national level and, therefore, to all those territorial services and large associations that are often alive thanks to the work of pure volunteering of many good operators and operators at local level, as well as to the anti-violence centers and assistance services that they carry out, just together with the administrators and administrators, a great daily work of listening and protecting women, both those who denounce and undertake the judicial path both those who turn to the various centers to make reports and ask for help but then do not have the courage to go all the way. This is the most important thing. The wish of the Fare Group! is that the establishment of this Commission can be approved as quickly as possible in this House, unanimously - as I hope - and can make a contribution to prevention and a strong investment in education and vocational training. Only by acting on this aspect will one be able to feel in some way part of a more concrete and incisive action that can give true answers to the various needs and needs, now daily. From the beginning of the parliamentary term, from the ratification of the Istanbul Convention to the present day, we have made a great deal of talk in the parliamentary classrooms, debates and newspapers about these issues, but then in fact the excellent intentions have never been translated into something concrete that has been able to stem the phenomenon, which is growing. Some data is read in a slightly different way: if it is true that in certain areas the phenomena of feminicide (the killing of women) are perhaps decreasing, it is also true, however, that it has widened in every shirt of society. In fact, it is no longer a question of the division of social classes, of cultural classes, of formation: by now the episodes are perpetrated by men of every social class, even by the wealthiest and also by those who have a higher education, and take place in the North as well as in the South. There are no distinctions or divisions anymore. It is fundamental to take note of this and, from this observation, to try to initiate incisive and concrete actions, above all to understand how to help the local institutions and to put on the network really what is being done at national level, with articulations present in the local administrations and especially with the territorial principals that already exist and always need resources and help but, above all, to feel part of an integrated system. In this spirit, and in the hope that we do not have to face such issues for a long time, we will support with absolute conviction and give our full support to the legislative proposal under consideration and to any action that the Government intends to take to combat the phenomenon of feminicide. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u43	She is registered to speak Senator Maturani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are holding today, which aims to support the proposal for a law to set up a Commission of Inquiry into the phenomenon of feminicide, is very important, and it is not only a formal will to give a sense of our commitment to the dramatic nature of the phenomenon. I consider it an important act and corresponding to the equally important work that the Senate and the political forces have expressed in recent years also and above all in the approval of norms that have lit a beacon on a dramatic phenomenon that concerns our country. In this sense, I am referring to the adoption of Law No 119 of 2013, which is not a point of arrival, but not even a trivial or insufficient beginning in relation to the dramatic events. I remember the debate in this House for its approval, in which all men and women took part aware that the adoption of a law could certainly not solve the drama of violence against women and the dramatic phenomenon of feminicide with the magic wand. I recall the considerations made regarding this, in the knowledge that that law contained concrete and new measures of intervention. But we counted and continue to count on the fact that the law in general also produces in the country an element of cultural growth compared to the issues it addresses. We have been talking for years about the reasons for this violence, which today has become dramatically inconceivable, unthinkable, as my colleagues Mr Uras and Mr Bisinella have said; a violence that is manifested by the burning of women, by the use of acid and produces a sense from men who are its actors. I do not repeat the comments made by my colleagues before me on a point of order. Unfortunately, this violence is increasingly born within the family and is carried out by husbands, comrades, often children or close relatives. My colleagues and my colleagues have largely represented these realities which I do not return to, but we must think a lot about that. I believe that the Commission of Inquiry which is intended to be set up is indeed not only extraordinarily important but necessary when we are aware that the rules are not sufficient. In my opinion, we are a state-of-the-art country and we must not feel deprived of instruments compared to many European countries in this area, but we need to deepen the reasons for the phenomenon, despite the many tools, and to fill the many shortcomings that we have. I share the idea that we must implement resources, support those actors and organizations and administrations that do so much. In our country, there are many virtuous, efficient and effective examples that give important answers, but there are also situations in which there is not the desert, but actually very little. I believe that this Commission can represent the place where, for the expressions I have heard here, we find an important common point in relation to how we must work towards the objectives we must achieve. I think we need to highlight a subject that has been mentioned by those who have preceded me. There are a lot of issues. We try to identify the causes of the dramatic violence that is perpetrated against women in our country and rightly say that we must work in the education of young people, starting with our children and girls, so that we understand that respect for gender difference is the reality of the world, is the reality of our country. But I believe that we must insist very much, with the involvement of families, schools and institutions, that we understand the importance of resuming and giving value to the theme of the relationship between man and woman, of the meaning and meaning of the sentimental relationship. Above all, it must be recognised that in our society individualism and selfishness have removed the theme of emotional education from the centre of collective social attention. In fact, the theme of emotional and emotional education must be posed. I believe that the dramatic violence put in place and the use of instruments that every day seem to be refined in the search for an increasingly heinous aggressiveness and which makes news and news, among the many other issues in a timely manner represented in this debate. I therefore think that the Commission is a great necessity, and for this reason I would like to thank our Minister, Mr Fedeli, who was the first signatory to the draft law in question, and the rapporteur, Senator Lo Moro: Senator Fedeli had the intuition of the need to set up the Commission and Senator Lo Moro - I really say this - the capacity to represent in this House the Commission's objective and the way in which its members will work. The debate in this House has confirmed this objective. (18.25) (Following MATURIANS). I think that this is an important element that gives us hope. I believe that the Commission's working time should not affect our debate. The important thing is to set her up and start working immediately. The Senate has an awareness of where to start thinking and of what are the crucial nodes. I believe that this is a fundamental element. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u45	Senator Bignami is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u46	Mr President, this is the first time that I have spoken to the Senate all of a sudden, as the agenda for today's sitting appeared only a few hours ago. But I have a duty to express my opinion on this at the moment. I completely agree that we need to solve a problem and that this is a problem. I do not agree that the proposed solution is the most effective solution to the problem. If we have to talk about it, however, let's all talk about it together, looking at our lives and talking about omerta. It is easy to quote everything we see in television shows, but we also mention everything we have seen and have not talked about since we went to school. It was not necessary for them to be bullying: the violence that is perpetrated on women exists and accompanies us throughout existence, because unfortunately - and I say this here - it is also a form of habit. We must work on this, that is, on the end of the omerty that we constantly have, starting with us. We see and shut up. We listen and often and willingly are not able to help those close to us who are ill. We must not only talk about those who unfortunately died and are no longer there, but also about all those who are there now and can be helped, but we do not help them at the moment either. Why? Because we're afraid; because, as long as we talk about who killed someone I don't know, it's easy to say he's bad. The problem is to denounce the one who knows it was me and who knows I know him, because at that point we are the ones who come into play and we stand ahead of everyone. Yet, when this action is to be taken, many of us back out. To talk about violence: it is true that it must be done. But among the violence that is not denounced or that is not denounced there are also those on women with disabilities. I have often heard neuropsychiatrics suggest not to report it, because the victim did not understand or however the episode did not have so much effect on her. Where is he? He's still around. These are hidden complicity that generate monsters. And we're there to watch. What is behind all the episodes that are called cyberbullying, feminicide or other words? There is only one word: respect. We must educate ourselves to respect: respect for diversity, respect for the other, also for the opposite sex, but above all for general respect. Respect is the cement of society: respect for the rules, respect for the law. Let's talk about this, but let's talk about it completely, because this problem has to be solved. We must educate ourselves to values, and not only to the value of respect, but also to the meaning of violence and non-violence. It is a delicate problem which must not be solved on television by means of a broadcast. I have friends who have filed 11 complaints and who I can't help. It's not that I can't help them, but sometimes it's impossible to help these people with the tools offered by the law. It is therefore necessary to provide the means by which we can help those people. Finally, I want to make a reflection that certainly cannot be the solution of everything: behind a monster there is always a woman, her mother. We must work here, within all women who become mothers and who must be aware that education to disrespect can lead to all these things that, besides being dangerous, are also harmful to society. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mussini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u47	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u48	Mr President, this proposal to set up a Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and Gender Violence has followed a timetable in record time: presented on Wednesday 26 October, after just one week, it begins in the Commission. The problem it faces is really urgent. The proposal to set up a bicameral Commission, which had also been put forward on this subject, has also been transformed into a proposal to set up a monocameral Commission, to justify the shorter approval time and the period - as the report says - at the end of the parliamentary term. The problem is certainly obvious considering that in Italy more than a hundred women die each year at the hands of their companions or former cohabitants. It seems to me that 2017 has also begun in a dramatic way. It must be said, first of all, that this is a single-chamber Commission composed of twenty senators, as provided for in Article 82 of the Constitution. We believe that we must certainly carry out all the deepenings in order to define precisely the phenomenon, the causes that lead to feminicide, having, above all, the objective of solving it. A survey should be made of the appropriateness of the relevant legislation in force. To this end, I would like to point out that the first Commission has begun examining two draft legislation in this area together with the Justice Commission, on which it interrupted its work in October 2013. One of my group's own draft laws concerns the introduction of feminicide (Article 613- bis of the Criminal Code) as an aggravating factor for a number of crimes against the person, where they are committed to the detriment of a woman. All crimes committed against women who have as their objective not only the injury of the protected legal good, but who highlight the exploitation of violent behavior aimed at imposing sexual supremacy, will therefore be considered more serious where the prosecutor will want to configure the aggravating circumstance. I would like to point out that our role is primarily that of legislators and, therefore, we must finalise our work to improve legislation in this area. The Commission may be set up if it is useful to implement legislation more aimed at combating feminicide. However, all appropriate assessments must be made of the desirability of setting up a Commission of Inquiry, or of launching a survey. Of course, answers must be given to a phenomenon that is now almost daily on the national news, but we must avoid creating a new organism where it should only be used to exploit the phenomenon. We therefore believe that an instrumental use should not be made of a Commission, but rather a recognition of the implementation of the Istanbul Convention, and an assessment of the adequacy and lack of legislation, as well as the capacity of public administrations to intervene. As we have already done in other areas, at the end of the Commission's work, however, concrete answers will have to be found in order to stem - if not eradicate - the phenomenon of feminicide and all forms of gender-based violence from the point of view of the legislative response. I would like to conclude by reminding you, however, that we are still without the Ministry for Opportunities. The last Minister was Mara Carfagna, with the Berlusconi Government, who was responsible for the stalking law of 23 April 2009. Since that date, there have been more than 70,000 complaints. Unfortunately, denouncing was not enough because many of the complainants were killed. I hope that the Commission will be able to simplify the distribution of the funds allocated to the budget law for violence against women because, for now, the anti-violence centres do not have large funds. The Forces of Order are not enough to follow these cases. Family counselors should also be reviewed - for years now my bill has not been passed on them - because they should be considered one of the first points of help and listening, especially for women of the weakest social class. Many have rightly been reminded of the importance of school. I remember when I was a little girl and I went to the gardens, if a boy gave a push to a girl, the mother would say to him: Don't you know that women don't even touch each other with a flower? Now I think it would be much more useful in schools, rather than introducing gender theory, to stop and teach children what respect means for human beings and women. I therefore hope that this Commission will be able to make a contribution, at three hundred and sixty degrees, to counter this terrible phenomenon. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII Group and Senator Lo Moro]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u49	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u50	Mr President, I too would like to thank you for this important opportunity that our country will have as soon as this Commission of Inquiry leaves. Moreover, in this Chamber, unfortunately for months, we have told many times (some colleagues have invented the so-called relay of feminicide) what happens in our country. I would just like to focus on one aspect, remembering that it is a cross-cutting problem that does not concern a social class, but - alas - all social classes: no one is excluded from these problems. Since everything has already been said, I would like to focus my speech on other actors who are part of the same problem and who are minors: children and girls, the children who live in these families. In fact, we are also talking about this in almost all cases: children who are witnessing this violence. We know well - as is now evident from scientific studies - that a pregnant woman who suffers from these problems communicates this suffering to her child: so already in the mother's womb the child or child suffers the effects of this violence, whether psychological, physical or otherwise. All the more reason, when the child comes into the world, the mother will be so focused on herself for what she lives every day, because she does not know what will happen to her that day and because everything can happen at any time, that she can also "distract" herself from the care. She's not gonna be a serene mom and she's gonna share this anxiety with her baby. The child will risk being invisible in a certain sense and may also carry on himself the signs of neglect, because there is no harmony and there is no serenity in that family. We know well how, as the child grows, if he lives in a family and in an environment where the relationship and respect are breathed, where there is the recognition of the other, that child or that child will bring that model back as an adult, because it is what remains imprinted in his conscience and will make him become an adult. Otherwise, if the child lives in violence, of whatever nature it is, from the physical to the psychological, up to assume the dramatic forms that have been remembered, if the child lives this climate of disrespect and non-recognition, he will believe that that is the model to follow and will most likely risk as an adult to live and repeat the same experience. So, in order to break this terrible chain, you have to act there and help these children by trying to listen to them, because children don't lie. Children are transparent, only that we often focus only on the figure of the adult and the child is almost never or rarely considered in its completeness. Early action must then be taken to try to trust the child, create a positive relationship and begin to make him trust the adult, because the mother can also be fragile and therefore not reassure the child. You can stop all this. Science has shown us this: the trauma can be solved, but the intervention must be early and intensive. It is necessary to turn away the parent who uses violence, because often it happens that despite complaints, the man who violates remains in the same house and thus determines a climate of tension and constant concern. Then we must also work on these men who were probably children, who have witnessed all this and who have suffered violence in a certain way. We must work and provide for collaboration, protocols, not only with the police, who have done extraordinary work in these years of training, but, as has been said, with the operators of the emergency room and I say also with the pediatricians, because the first signs of alarm can come from the children. A child can react in an ambivalent way: meanwhile he feels responsible and lives a sense of guilt, as if the responsibility for what lives in that family was his own, and therefore he can have an attitude of silence and closure, he can become silent suddenly, or he can express violence himself in another environment, for example when he goes to school, and therefore assume attitudes of pseudo bullying or bullying real and proper that must be deepened in order to find the true matrix. You can intervene and you can cure, you can solve and you can disappear this problem but you have to pay attention to it and you have to do it all over our country. Forgive me if I say this with great vehemence: we have done so much in the course of this parliamentary term because of this dramatic problem, but unfortunately, perhaps because of the lack of sensitivity of someone or because of problems of resources that, however, are finally beginning to be foreseen, much more has not been done. We must ensure that this intervention is more homogeneous throughout the country. That is not the case, even in this case it is not the case. Often, in some places - and I think of my deep South - there may be commendable initiatives and a project starts but then the resources end and the project ends but the problem remains. It cannot be a project, it must be envisaged structural measures because the good will of the many who are available - and there are so many - cannot be enough, it cannot be enough. It is therefore necessary to work more together. Finally, it is not enough to predict the centers, it is necessary that everyone is close, that we become an educating community. We've forgotten that we're all educators. If we live in the relationship and in the recognition of the other, if we use a dialectic ability of comparison, this will "respire" those around us. All of us must feel shared. The day before yesterday I heard, in a news report about yet another dramatic episode, that some of the neighbors made it clear that it wasn't about him. Instead, these are things that affect each one of us! All of us! It was very well said of the rapporteur, Senator Lo Moro, that violence against women, violence against a child is a violation of human rights, is a problem for all of us. Let us then try to recover that beautiful ability that we have always had to feel like a family, to feel community and everyone takes care of one "piece" of the other, and if he sees that a woman is suffering and does not have the courage to react, because she does not have the ability, does not have the economic resources or because she is afraid to face the problem, accompany her. These people, in fact, must be accompanied. It is not enough to press charges and go home: you have to stay close to these people. The process is difficult, but we should all contribute, each for a piece. We have more responsibilities at this time and we rightly need to do more, and this is a valuable opportunity to do so, but we should all, citizens and citizens, be more careful and warn that this is a problem for each of us. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u51	The debate is closed. I shall refer the document back to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u52	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2542, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Amati, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will come to the conclusion of this symbolic but important act which has already had full membership of both the Chamber of Deputies and the 4th Permanent Commission of the Senate, the Defence Commission: the establishment of the National Day of Civil Victims of Wars and Conflicts in the World. The issue of civilian victims is very significant. I would like to remind you that from the analysis of war data, especially the greatest conflicts that have caused the greatest number of victims, it is now known with certainty that the civilian victims are much more than those of the military, not because they do not weigh, of course, the sacrifice of young people in arms but the confrontation has become increasingly heavy from year to year. That is what the numbers say: of nearly half a billion human beings killed in the one hundred most significant massacres in the history of mankind 315 million people died depend on wars; they are 49 million soldiers killed against 266 million civilians. An average of civilians died during wars, which is therefore 85 percent. Of course, we remember the massacres and losses of World War II in particular. Here too, looking at the data coming from American universities, I made a comparison that seems useful to me to recall briefly. In Germany, Japan and Italy, the share of civilian casualties is significant. The deaths in World War II for Germany were 5,318,000 soldiers and 2,100,000 civilians (a very significant figure). In Japan the figures are as follows: 1,930,000 military deaths and 700,000 civilians, including the deaths of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. For our country, always taking into account the numerical relationship with our population of that time (43 million), the data speak of 319,207 military deaths and 153,147 civilian deaths. It is an important report, however, because for the main countries, those who had unleashed and lost - I must say, fortunately - the Second World War (we know that the Italian relationship is different and particular after 8 September), the data are impressive. The Soviet Union has made the largest contribution of deaths (13.6 percent of the country's population): 10.400,000 military deaths and 12.600,000 civilians. I repeat, we are talking about over 12 million civilian deaths. Even in the United Kingdom the number of military deaths is greater: 272,000 military deaths and 93,000 civilians. Thinking of France, the number of civilians (350,000) is greater than several thousand units compared to the 210,000 military. I repeat, none of us wants not to value or bear in mind the tragedy of the loss of those who, by serving their homeland, died in wars. But I believe that the acts that we carry out are essentially aimed at realizing and implementing the first part of Article 11 of the Constitution, that on the repudiation of war, so that we can achieve a growing cultural orientation in the different countries (we therefore speak not only of Italy, but also of the culture of peace in the world) aimed at reducing not only the civilian victims of conflicts but also those of the military, and to make sure that wars are not there. The date of 1 February was identified for the establishment of National Day of Civil Victims. Why such a date? Because on 1 February came into force the single text of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 915 realizing the equalization for the purposes of compensation between the civilian and military victims of the Second World War, therefore equal dignity between the two situations. The following articles stipulate that this recurrence will not be included among the days of civil solemnity, i.e. those with reference to Article 3 of Law No 260 of 27 May 1949 (so without parties and office closure). The law is at zero cost for both the country and the local authorities and the structures that are subsequently delegated to them. What is expected? That the Provinces and local authorities can promote a culture of peace and knowledge of the phenomena that pertain to wars (repeat, it is not a day of civil solemnity) and then there is an important commitment of the MIUR provided for in Article 4 of the bill to our examination. The MIUR sets out guidelines to involve schools. We know how important it is in the formation, and therefore in the culture that is being carried out within our schools, preparation for peace. Among other things, we have also practiced it, we have tried to practice it, we have practiced it modestly also in the spaces of our Senate. I am thinking of all the meetings that have been organized, for example - we are a week from 27 January - compared to the Holocaust. We have supported many initiatives to promote with schools that culture of peace. Last year, on the centenary of the First World War in the Koch Hall here in the Senate, together with the National Coordination of Local Authorities for Peace and Human Rights and with the Italian schools we promoted a culture that would remember the First World War the serious dramas, the conclusion, but also the drama of the trenches, the life of the soldiers of that time. This continuous relationship we have had with the schools - which we have also tried to support - is certainly a central point of the article we are discussing. I would like to say that we have also worked in this Senate to support all those initiatives that were in favour of the issues of peace building and also the reduction of arms, or at least the most dangerous ones. I am thinking of the Ottawa Convention, mine clearance and cluster bombs. Finally, I am thinking of measures to combat the financing of anti-personnel mine manufacturers, munitions and cluster submunitions, which were unanimously voted on 6 October last year by the Finance Committee, which I hope will also be able to conclude quickly in the House, given that the act is simple and strongly shared. The MIUR - as I said - will be able to establish guidelines to involve schools and also the National Association of Civil Victims of War Onlus, an association dating back to 1943, which has 33,000 members and which supports 120,000 people, as well as the corresponding observatory institute more recently, last year, which have as their goal a formation closer and closer to the culture that recognizes the civilian victims and the weight of the war, therefore the military victims, and above all builds a culture of peace. I conclude by saying that there is a common will, thinking also of the wars that followed after the end of the First World War and those that we are living in these days: there have been 45 million deaths, two million of them children. The data are therefore absolutely dramatic and on the other hand, the images daily shown by the media testify to them. We must therefore ensure that the Constitutional Charter can really be implemented. We love the Italian Constitution [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] We believe that, first of all, it must be implemented in all its parts and we hope that implementing the first part of Article 11 will be a common value which is also contained in this act. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u54	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Santangelo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u55	Mr President, even though we are in general discussion, I would like to say that we will be voting in favour of this because we cannot do otherwise before a title of this kind, which I would like to repeat: The establishment of the National Day of Civil Victims of Wars and Conflicts in the World. I imagine, however, that those who have presented this bill must also have a minimum of intellectual honesty in understanding what they have voted for in Parliament over the last few years, namely whether the title and content of this measure really go towards what the rapporteur has said: to spread the culture of peace and against wars. Let us then start with Article 11 of the Constitution. Article 1 of the draft law provides that the Republic shall recognise on 1 February of each year as the "National Day of Civil Victims of Wars and Conflicts in the World." As if all the other days could not be committed to this, with active policies to go in this direction! In the final part and (and this is the most gruesome thing) it is said that according to the principles of Article 11 of the Constitution the culture of peace and the repudiation of war must be pushed and applied. As if reading and applying the Constitution were something second-level; as if there were a need to make a bill to assert this principle. I say to the majority, and to the government that presented this bill, that it is nothing but hypocrisy at the pure level. This is hypocrisy on a pure level! But how can you say that you are ready to spread the culture of peace and repudiation of war? The rapporteur spoke of about half a billion civilian deaths during the wars. In front of this what does a government do? For example, it should reduce funding to the war industry. That would be normal. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Italy, to date, spends about 20 billion euros on military charges and most of them are not towards personnel but towards armaments. Italy is one of the world's first nations for the sale of arms to precisely the nations that are active in conflicts and in the violation of human rights. Italy is among the first nations to supply weapons to Saudi Arabia, which uses them against Yemen, where, from a humanitarian point of view, something has also been proven. In front of this, with what intellectual honesty can a bill be presented today, since the policies of this Government, and also of previous ones, have gone in completely opposite directions? How can it be said that schools and the Minister of Education are involved in this project, if, in the end, we do not invest a single euro? But how is it possible for schools to operate automatically? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But why not include research? Why not devote a few billion euros to research aimed at the conversion of the war industries, to make them work for another type of activity, such as renewable energy? This is hypocrisy! These are acts that you could immediately make law in this Parliament. But you didn't, and then you want to wash your conscience with billboards that are rag paper like this. I absolutely do not have any associations that do absolutely high-level and valuable work and are instrumentally used in this bill. Let us remember, in fact, that this is what you do; above all you of the PD, do it in an instrumental way: use the associations. But then put the money and give funding, since the associations play an important role, from the civil point of view, in forming consciences. Put the money in it! Have the courage to put the money, but not to sell and buy weapons. The culture of peace? But the purchase of the F-35 didn't you vote for it? A colleague of ours, at a later stage, will explain the reasons for our vote in favour, but at this stage of general discussion I wanted to stress the nothingness of this bill. In addition, Mr President, this is a draft law which is being examined without the amendments being tabled to the House. I wonder, then, and I ask you, what game is this? If we're gonna waste time, we're gonna do something else. Today at 7 p.m. and 7 p.m. it is now, at this time, the deadline for discussing the amendments expires. I would ask you, from a regulatory point of view, at what stage of the debate will I be able to defend and explain to the whole House the amendments that I shall be tabling? When will I be able to do so if you declare the general debate closed immediately after the speeches at this stage? Mr President, I am certainly not mad at you, but I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this modus operandi is not acceptable, especially when it comes to such important and noble issues as those of peace, which are not in your ranks, Remember that. I repeat: I am not in your cords. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u56	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u57	Mr President, let us take this opportunity to make some comments on the draft law before us. It goes without saying that when we talk about the establishment of a National Day of Civil Victims of Wars and Conflicts in the World, we could all clearly agree. In any case, we are talking about the establishment of yet another day and the fact that there are promotion activities in schools; we would like to know how many days are now involved in particular topics and we wonder if these kids at school, maybe, also have time to study something else. We humbly raise a small point and ask ourselves some questions, beyond the title that seems evidently acceptable. For example, in Article 4 there is a very special measure, because it is expected that the Ministry of Education, University and Research will draw up guidelines for the involvement of schools and in this sense it will be appointed to carry out these initiatives by the National Association of Civil Victims of War Onlus, which carries out a large part of its activity in the defense of weak people. However, it is clear from its own website that this association has particular preferences in dealing with the issues that involve it. In addition to having a strong pro-European drive, we can see that the same Internet site of this association encourages the reading of some articles where we talk, in particular, about the situation of immigration. It seems that also the magazine that is responsible for promoting and distributing activities concerning the Onlus, entitled "Peace & solidarity", speaks of immigration and refugees, classified as a crisis to be faced all together, with an approach for which immigration is not seen as sometimes we also paint it of our movement. We are referring to immigration by classifying it almost indistinctly, talking about those fleeing from war, those in absolute need. However, it is not just one article, but in almost all the magazine at least a couple of articles are devoted to dealing with this subject. I would like to call you on a simple visit to the association's website. Therefore, since we intend to call this association to carry out this activity, do we wonder whether the victims referred to in the draft law are the civilian victims of wars or whether we want to re-understand the whole phenomenon of immigration? I ask this because we know very well that there are not only victims of war in the phenomenon of migration; there is a migration that can also be of an economic nature and that can hide in some of its ravines another kind of immigration. We know very well what the problem of terrorism is and how the phenomenon of immigration, the movement of foreign people in our country must be managed. We therefore have doubts as to the impartiality with which this association will be able to promote this type of initiative and not, perhaps, to introduce this subject as well. We only raise a simple question mark and invite all our colleagues to take a closer look at this issue. [[Applause from Senator Crosio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u59	Mr President, the bill that we are talking about is certainly animated by the best feelings and objectives, which I fully agree with, namely to point out and underline the horror of the civilian victims in wars. Not that the military victims are less to be regretted, but the civilian victims of wars are, in some ways, a novelty of the wars of the last hundred years, especially of the last seventy and eighty years, at least in Europe. So there is no discussion about this understanding. However, I have some concerns about the setting up of yet another day to commemorate something. I have tabled - and I have expired a few minutes ago - the deadline for tabling amendments - an agenda that the Government should know, but I do not know if you know, not because of the responsibility of Mr Rossi-Doria, but rather because of the responsibility of the Ministry of Education - to communicate how many days there are on the most shared and touching subjects for which schools should be involved. Schools work for two hundred days a year but, if we were to count how many days are dedicated to this or that other theme (indeed, absolutely acceptable in itself), I wonder how many days remain to teach what schools have to teach. It is not to be materialistic: on the contrary. Schools should provide pupils and students with the tools to be able to have a knowledge (e.g., in this case, knowledge of what caused and caused wars), to evaluate situations and prospects, to agree with advanced solutions or propose new ones, rather than be involved in many commercial initiatives (repeat, with all respect for the proposal we are discussing) for which we are talking today about this, tomorrow of this and the day after tomorrow of this again. Culture, in my opinion, is another thing: it is being able to put things together and not isolate individual problems. If one studies history, especially the recent one, evidently to understand that wars cause enormous damage to the civilian populations, with devastation for millions of families, he arrives there alone; studying history should also understand what were the mechanisms that caused the wars, the ways in which they were carried forward and their consequences, rather than doing the day, the conference, the design or I don't know what you end up doing on these days. This is based on the best of prospects. Then there is the danger of exploitation, of course. A part with this noble understanding and then there is the risk of going to make a partisan propaganda: depending on the political and ideological sympathies of the teacher or group of teachers, rather than talking about the fact itself, of the many civilian victims in all wars as reported by the bill, it ends up saying: The present government may be that of today, that of ten years ago or that of ten years from now, it is ugly and bad because it has done this and this other. A short while ago, in this regard, an authoritative colleague of the 5 Star Movement spoke of the fact that all military industries in our country should be closed down, causing the negligible consequence of a few hundred thousand unemployed, plus the induced. This is what has been argued. And do not think that this is only done in this House, it is then done in so many schools. I said against governments, but maybe even in favor, depending on someone's ideology. Then we see - again with the intervention of Senator Stefani - in a magazine an interesting interview of the present undersecretary Rossi on the problem of unexploded devices, on the importance of the Bonifiche and on the extraordinary work that our military have done and are doing, in particular in Afghanistan, but also in other places (for example in the Balkans), for this reclamation activity that is the concrete, real and decisive act (and also very risky) that our military do to reduce as much as possible the danger, especially for children, that are the first victims of the unexploded devices (how many there have been in our country and still there are, sometimes, even in our days, after so many years from the war!). Well, alongside this article and many others fully in line with the topic that we propose to promote in schools with this bill, then we talk about immigration, how beautiful it is to welcome, the automatic equalization of those who embark on a boat from Libya with those who have been the civilian victim of the war, in situations maybe a little different. Well, the perplexities come from here. First, one more day. Second, the involvement by statute, that is by law, because in the bill there is written of this association, although it is most deserving, in particular the president, extraordinary person, both very free to have their ideas. The fact, then, that these ideas of theirs are being conveyed to schools by law leaves me very perplexed. I would like to close by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Amati, for her work, which has also been almost exhaustive of the Commission's work, because, by reviewing the Commission's work, there has been her excellent report, followed by two interventions that we define, by euphemism, synthetic. The same thing happened to the House. Then perhaps a little more in-depth study would be appropriate, since in the Commission, obviously, someone thought it was a short-term measure. Who is not against the phenomenon of civilians being killed, wounded or mutilated in war? I am afraid, however, that the implementation of these days will give great space to the approximation and propaganda of a certain type. Precisely because this is a unifying topic, we should try to make it as unifying as possible, because so many times - and some little thing could be said about the provision we discussed previously - starting from an understanding that is absolutely shared, that practically collects the consent of the totality of the population and the political framework that represents it, then inserts something part, perhaps instrumental, that ends up creating divisions. Perhaps a moment of reflection on this point would be necessary. I have already asked the answer to the question I asked on an agenda: I would like to know from the government how many days this and that are supposed to involve schools. So we also have an idea of the scope of this provision. If there are so many, as I think they are, my hope is that only some of them will be put into practice and remembered in schools, of course to the arbitrary choice of those who then have to organize these things and who do well to make only a few of them. However, it is an excess of weight: to satisfy our good feelings - which are good, I don't say it ironically - we end up giving a bit of rabid and episodic work to the schools and maybe this is not exactly the end that we proposed with this measure. [[Applause from Senators Rizzotti and Stefani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u60	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u63	MORONESE (M5S). Mr President, I rise to ask the Government to act as a matter of urgency on the issue of schools in the province of Caserta, a huge problem which the 5 Star Movement is following very closely and on which it has already drawn the attention of the relevant ministers. We have produced a number of acts, including amendments, in order to try to remedy a situation created by the fake law on the abolition of the Provinces, we have tabled questions, of which the last on 13 October last, the 4-06508, which I will now call for. To date, however, government and minister have made a silent scene. I am referring to the fact that the Province of Caserta, which is responsible by law for the management of 93 institutes, with about 83,000 students, informed the managers of the institutes through its president that from 1 January 2017, the school buildings, due to lack of interventions on school building, would be out of law, thus violating the rules on safety, seismic risk and fire, and that because of the economic transfers from the Province to the central State, provided for by the law of stability 2015, the Province declared itself unable to guarantee even the supply of electricity and gas. With our October question we warned the Minister of Education precisely that this situation would also cause the impossibility of guaranteeing heating in schools and with the cold record in the South of these weeks you can well imagine the conditions of the students in the classrooms. The students, for a few days, started with the mobilization and occupation of schools. The intention is to take up as many of them as possible in order to give a strong signal to the institutions and there are already many institutions in employment. The Government and the Minister of Education must intervene immediately, they must realize that the serious faults of the inability of the parties and institutions all weigh on the shoulders of the students, who are in absurd conditions. They are without suitable structures, not according to norm and without heating and, moreover, some are at risk of collapse, as happened at the high school. "Salvatore Pizzi" of Capua. The students live with the fear that, following security checks or the intervention of the prosecutor, the closure of the schools will be possible and the school year will be lost. I would point out that in December the prosecutor intervened by closing six institutions for risks of staticity. Mr President, as a 5 Star Movement, we have also tabled a timely motion in the Campania Region. We of the 5 Star Movement are on the side of the students and are also ready to denounce those school leaders who will try to threaten students who ask to assert their rights. President, we want to know from the government what you choose to do: send police patrols out of the schools to suppress the protest or work to guarantee the right to study our children in complete safety? We await an answer from the government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u66	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask you to urge the Presidency to schedule the draft law No 1572, tabled by the Group of the North Legacy, which provides for the establishment of special economic zones (SEZs) in the territorial areas of Lombardy bordering Switzerland. I ask you this because, as you will know, Mr President, Italy is one of the countries of the European Community that is paying the most for the global economic and financial crisis that has been going on since 2009. There are territories of our country that at this moment suffer particularly, because their position determines an extreme competition with the Swiss Confederation: I refer to the Provinces of Sondrio, Como and Varese. This is because the Swiss Confederation has a different institutional structure, a certainly lighter tax burden, a widespread infrastructure network and ancillary services that make it increasingly attractive for neighbouring Lombard provinces. Therefore it happens that, more and more, we lose historical and excellence companies that, in fact, prefer to relocate the plants in the most attractive Canton Ticino and Canton of Graubünden. This has been undermining for several years the socio-economic fabric built with great difficulty on our territories and Lombardy, in these areas, is experiencing a moment of great suffering. We therefore call for a timetable to be drawn up as soon as possible for the proposal for Law No 1572, which, as I said, provides for the establishment of special economic zones (ZES) in the areas of Lombardy bordering the Swiss Confederation. I would remind you, Mr President, that just yesterday the President of the Lombardy Region, Roberto Maroni, appealed for this bill, which was deposited with the Senate, but also, always by the colleagues of the Northern League Group, to the House, to be satisfied, it is indifferent whether in one or the other branch of Parliament. My request, Mr President, is that, given the authority of President Grasso, he should be able to hear Mrs Boldrini and define from which branch of Parliament to start. Believe me: the companies in the areas of the Lombardy Region bordering the Swiss Confederation are suffering and every day we lose not only the workforce, but also a historical, social and working heritage that we have built in a hundred years, because it is relocated to the Confederation, where, unfortunately, the conditions for the companies are certainly more attractive. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u67	Senator Crosio, your Leader will also be able to urge, at the Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, the issues you referred to.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u70	ANGIONES (PD). Mr President, in our country there are over five million foreigners resident and the foreign pupils present in our schools are almost 10% of the total of all Italian pupils. In the Emilia-Romagna and Lombardy suns, 15 percent and 14 percent respectively. These figures tell us of a society very different from that which inspired the 1992 reform, which today regulates the right of citizenship in Italy. As you know, in 2015, the House of Deputies approved a new proposal for a law on citizenship. The text provides for the extension of cases of acquisition of citizenship by birth and a new form of purchase following the school path. Today that bill is part of the bill n. 2092, which is in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the Senate. Certainly many draft laws are important, but some are of particular importance, I would say strategic, for the future of our country: this bill is certainly one of these. There are hundreds of thousands of children and adolescents, children of immigrant families, who are born or are growing up in our country, who go to school, play and compare daily with their Italian peers. There is, in fact, no distinction between the two. Both are already part of the new Italian and European generation. That is why I believe that it is very important to follow up on the appeal of these days, addressed by the two colleagues who presented the bill to the House, Khalid Chaouki and Milena Santerini, to the President of the Senate, in accordance, of course, with his role and that of the 1st Commission, to ensure that the measure can arrive in the Chamber and be approved at certain times, in order to enable us to have, within this legislature, a new law on citizenship which our country urgently needs. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u73	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to address Mr Poletti to remind him that there are socially useful jobs (LSU), that is, there are, at the end of the day, workers exploited by the State at an excellent price. Some people, in fact, might even think that they are lazy people, but they are not. Those who, unfortunately, have still remained as LSU and therefore have not been incorporated within the municipalized or within the institutions themselves, are people who very often have been doing that type of work for more than twenty years and who probably for twenty years have not been able to find a municipalized, a local authority or, perhaps, someone who gave him a push to enter the institutions in an effective way. So these people not only have been working for the state for 20 years, doing a fundamental job for local authorities, but they don't even have a social security cover. Then, not only should we, dear Minister, finally find the money to cover forehead those who carry out this type of activity for the State for years and years, but there is also a problem of renewal of the convention between the Ministry of Labour and Campania Region in order to continue this activity also for the year 2017. It would be appropriate, therefore, that instead of thinking of the young people who are abroad, dear Minister, and denigrating them, we should think about renewing these conventions otherwise local authorities will find themselves without the fundamental activity carried out by the LSU for more than twenty years and the services will be provided in a less than sufficient way. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u74	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-17-LEG17-Senato-sed-741.ana.u75	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 18 January, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.29 a.m.
