ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Petraglia, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. First of all, questions 3-03247 and 3-03580 on the application of the Bolkestein Directive to street trade will be asked. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u4	(IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, having said that the agreement, which was agreed at the Unified Conference on 5 July 2012, was adopted following a long series of meetings with representatives of territorial authorities (Regions and Municipalities in particular) and of the most representative trade associations, the criteria set out therein aim to pursue the need to combine the principles of the European order with the need to modulate the new rules on the basis of a timetable that would not lead to harmful consequences for the sector. Therefore, the choice has been to identify criteria that can also enhance the experience of operators, recognizing, as known, a significant value to the seniority of the operators. In this respect, I respond to Senator Panizza's request to exclude street traders from the application of the so-called Bolkenstein Directive, stressing that the possibility of excluding public soil from the application of the Community principle is not sustainable. In implementing the specific provision of the so-called Services Directive, it has therefore been adopted in order to facilitate cooperation between the State's activities and the system of self-governments and to examine matters and tasks of common interest in identifying the criteria to be followed in the case of selection procedures for the allocation of parking spaces on public areas. In this context, the need to combine the principles of Community law with the current situation in the field of trade in public areas in the country, characterised by almost all micro-enterprises with family-run businesses, has been pursued. Their exercise, traditionally, is permitted on the basis of parking concessions obtained on the basis of the priority criterion of recognition of the previous presence, issued for a time normally corresponding to ten years, and tacit renewable towards the same provider. In this respect, due account has been taken of the current situation and the consequent need to modulate the new rules on the basis of a timetable that allows not to lead to consequences difficult to manage in social terms and also with risks of public order, as happened recently in Rome. It was therefore considered to reaffirm the general principle of the duration of the parking concessions, stating that the concession must be of such a duration that it does not limit free competition beyond the time necessary to ensure the depreciation of investments, including intangible investments, as well as a fair remuneration for the capital invested. The duration of the concession may not be less than nine years or more than twelve years. The duration of the concession, in any case, is fixed by the municipality taking into account the average investment needs related to the characteristics of all the parking spaces concerned. For the concession of the parking spaces in the tourist markets, including the isolated parking spaces, the municipalities will be able to establish a shorter duration, however, not less than seven years. Moreover, in the same understanding, the priority criteria to be applied for the determination of the procedural rules for the selection of parking spaces have been clarified. Consequently, it was considered to indicate criteria the application of which would allow recognition of the qualification and experience acquired in the sector, however referring to the history of the company in order to prevent the management and ownership sub-contracts from canceling it. The understanding itself does not appear, therefore, to grant preference to outgoing providers, but to identify - in view of both the limited resources available (public area), the values involved and to protect constituting grounds of general interest, and the potential multiplicity of the economic operators concerned - criteria and parameters, to be declined in implementation in any case consistent with the indications of the same circular. The provision introduced by Decree-Law No 244 of 2016, has planned to extend until 31 December 2018 the existing concessions, also in order to ensure homogeneity between the allocation procedures. However, an extension, such as that proposed in the context of the acts under discussion, would run counter to the principles of the European Union in the field of competition, as last reiterated in the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 14 July 2016 on maritime state property concessions for recreational tourism, resulting in the risk of opening an infringement procedure for Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u7	RUTA (PD). Madam President, Mr Secretary-General, I am partially satisfied with the answer and I will explain the reasons for it right away. Only at the end of his speech has the Undersecretary shown that Decree-Law 244 of 2016, converted into law by Parliament (Law No 19 of 2017), has planned to extend until 31 December 2018 the existing concessions, thus shifting their deadline. That was exactly the point: the question, which I submitted in October, asked whether it was appropriate to extend the system of concessions, which expired in 2016, until 2030. This deadline has been extended to 2018, but there is one issue that has not been answered: if, in view of the extension until 2018, it is not considered necessary and useful to inform the municipalities not to proceed immediately, there being time until 2018, and if there was interest and desire of the Government to modify that rule so that the walking trade is not included in the so-called Bolkestein Directive for all the reasons set out by the Undersecretary. These reasons, which I agree with and which are the subject of the survey conducted and the work carried out by the unified State-Regions Conference, stem from the fact that street trade consists, in 95% of cases, of small family businesses, which, thanks to that activity, have an income. Thanks to that activity we have hundreds of thousands of people and families who live in an honest and transparent way, guaranteeing also a service to all Italian cities, to the villages more or less large, to the big cities, to the local markets and more. That State-Regions Conference, therefore, wanted to guarantee precisely those families, indicating the criterion of seniority of service and presence, guaranteeing it also for future notices. But in order to do this, the Competition Authority should not have intervened, which, on the other hand, with its own resolution, said that that kind of protection is against competition. That is why we have called for an overall rethink of the issue. I therefore call on the Government once again to act in this regard and I will ask a specific question in this regard, asking why the Government does not wish to remove, by legislative action, the street trade on public property from the application of Bolkestein. I want to make it clear that only Italy has applied this discipline throughout Europe. All European countries would be in infringement proceedings, but only Italy has approved it, together with Spain, which has postponed its application for seventy years. That is why I asked for a postponement to 2030 with the question. The event, extraordinarily civil and imposing, that the operators of the walking trade carried out yesterday in Rome, clearly tells us that the alternative is to throw hundreds of thousands of Italian families who work in an honest way by rendering a service to the whole community; This is in order to be the most obsequious in Europe, to say that we want to respect that directive by applying it also to street trade, an area to which, by chance, no European State, not even the great Germany, has decided to apply it. The formal request that I make today verbally and that I will then formalise with a specific question or legislative initiative, amending if necessary, is to remove from the Bolkestein directive the street trade on public property. I am announcing my initiative and I hope that the Government will be perfectly on the line and will give an immediate hand, on the one hand, to tell the municipalities not to proceed, on the other hand, to remove the walking trade from the Bolkestein directive.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u10	ZIN (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, Mr Undersecretary, I too find myself almost dissatisfied with this answer because it is not the answer that we all expected. In my opinion, on this particular point Italy has too much Europe and we want "more" Europe, not "too much" Europe. That is why I want to subscribe to every word Mr Ruta has said, because his speech was absolutely correct. Our streetwalkers need protection. Of course, we must listen to Europe, but we must also listen to our 450,000, 500 000 streetwalkers representing small family businesses. I therefore subscribe to every word of Senator Ruta's intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u11	Following is the question 3-03357 on supervision in the insurance sector. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u12	Madam President, with this question, Senator Castaldi - whom I also meet in the Industry Committee of which he is one of the most active members - asks the Government to know what initiatives are being taken, in the field of car liability, to promote effective surveillance measures in order to avoid cartel strategies among insurance companies to the detriment of consumers, so as to also adopt provisions to ensure lower premiums for insured persons, greater transparency and greater competitiveness in the sector. Preliminarily, Senator Castaldi recalls the investigative activity initiated by the Competition Authority and the market also following some declarations by the Generali and Unipol groups, with which it was feared the risk of a mitigation of the competitive dynamics on RC car prices with forecasts of rise of the prices of the policies, after a long phase of descent of the last period. The questioners also recall the conclusions of a survey closed in 2013 by the Antitrust Authority, which highlighted a number of potential barriers to competition and proposed several pro-competitive measures. The same Authority has repeatedly intervened on these realities stimulating concrete competition for the benefit of consumers, not least, as is known, through a speech by President Giovanni Pitruzzella of October 2015, at a hearing at the 10th Permanent Senate Committee on the Draft Competition Law. This bill, which is about to be voted in the Chamber in the next few weeks, to pass - at second reading of the novel articles - to the definitive approval of the House, as acknowledged by the questioners themselves, contains provisions to ensure transparency of the market for the benefit of consumers, with particular regard to virtuous motorists, reducing the present territorial imbalances. With regard to the questions put, in the substance of the question, it should be pointed out that the act itself proposes, among the measures relating to the insurance sector (Articles 2-15), a series of measures aimed at promoting competition and promoting the transparency and knowledge of market actions for the benefit of consumers, including a real competitive comparison between the main players in the sector. In particular, provision is made for a comprehensive system of discounts of greater benefit for the virtuous insured persons of the Provinces with the highest accident rate and with the highest average premium for those who submit the vehicle to preventive inspection and who agree to install on their vehicle the so-called black box, on the basis of criteria and methods of determination regulated and monitored by the Institute for Insurance Supervision (IVASS). The reform of the RC auto brings a series of further interventions in favor of consumers and virtuous insured persons, with reference to the assignment of the merit classes, with prohibition to discriminate according to the duration of the relationship, in order to guarantee, within the class of belonging, the conditions of merit assigned to the insured persons having the same risk characteristics of the subject who enters into the new contract. There are also rules of greater advantage for those who have installed the so-called black boxes on the Audi A4 than those otherwise applied, i.e. through the provision of discounts for those who subject the vehicle to prior inspection or, again, install electronic mechanisms on the Audi A4 which prevent the start of the engine if there is a high alcohol content. In particular, the further discount to which reference has previously been made, characterized by a greater consistency and incisiveness than that also applied already in the occasion of the subscription of the aforementioned contractual clauses offered by the company, will have as its aim the valorization (of course economic) of those virtuous behaviors kept from the motorists and aimed to counter the spread of the frauds to the insurances. These measures aim precisely to mitigate the specific weight of territoriality in the determination of insurance premiums. I conclude with the hope that Parliament will be able to adopt these rules quickly, so that we can come to the conclusion of this process in order to meet both the needs of consumers and the commitments made with the European Union.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u13	I'd like to say hello to the fourth year boys at the Scientific High School. Nervi - G. Ferrari di Morbegno, in the province of Sondrio. Of course, I agree with the greeting that Senator Del Barba will undoubtedly want to make them directly from this House. Thank you guys for being here. Then the senator will explain why there aren't so many people today, Thursday afternoon. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u16	CASTALDI (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his compliment, which I would like to add because he is always available when I ask the Commission for an explanation. Finally, we can talk about citizens' problems after a week of other people's lives. I cannot say that I am completely satisfied, even if the answer has come to the substance, because we will only be able to see it together after the draft competition law; we will see what it contains. You tell me that you are about to come to this House: let us hope so. I would remind you of the schizophrenia of the draft competition law, which we fired in the Commission on 2 August: it has been stationary for eight months. Every now and then there is news that should come to this House. The reason for the delay is understandable: within this bill there are enormous problems, including those of insurance, telephony, taxis and energy. In order to sum up to the citizens who listen to us, an investigation was carried out under Law 287 of 1990, specifically Article 2, which deals with agreements aimed at distorting competition. There have been statements from the CEO and the general manager of Unipol and Generali who publicly said that the Calmered Price Age was ending, thus giving an indication to all others that you could start to raise prices; that's why Agcom intervened. What do we need to do and what do we propose (senator Puglia, who has tabled amendments to the draft competition law)? We must break the vicious circle of a market in which companies are willing to operate in a very inefficient way, because they have the certainty that the more they pay and the more they can increase the premiums to consumers. We have proposed a number of amendments and I hope that they will be taken forward. You mentioned amendment 4.12, on portability, which was proposed by Senator Puglia: it makes it much easier to change company. I hope it will not be changed, because it has been approved. Another problem is that of discounts. In the draft competition law the word "discounts" is present, but we had done a job, especially in the House, along with all the political forces, arriving at a shared solution and this work in the Senate has been deleted: an amendment of the rapporteurs, the 3.100, brought back to the previous situation, content - let me say - Unipol, who at the hearing asked us just that. I call on the Government to bear in mind our amendments, which go towards a direction that does not leave the companies the discretion to choose: there must be discounts, but they must refer to objective data. If we refer to objective data and leave no discretion to companies, this will certainly benefit consumers. I would therefore urge you, when considering our amending proposal, to take it seriously. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u17	Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u18	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-16-LEG17-Senato-sed-788.ana.u19	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 21 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.27 p.m.
