ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 21 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u4	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of twenty minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (at 16,37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u8	[[He stands up and with him the whole Assembly]] Ladies and gentlemen, last June 23rd Stefano Rodotà died in Rome, distinguished jurist, refined intellectual from the vast and eclectic culture, a political man of great importance, deputy from the VIII to the XI legislature. Born in Cosenza on 30 May 1933 by a family of the Albanian linguistic minority, after graduating in law, obtained in 1955 at La Sapienza University in Rome, he became assistant to the chair of the great civilist Rosario Nicolò. During his brilliant academic career Stefano Rodotà taught in the universities of Macerata, Genoa and Rome, until he obtained the title of professor emeritus of civil law. There is also a very long list of foreign universities where he has taught in Europe and in the rest of the world. He was President of the Fondazione Lelio and Lisli Basso, scientific director of the Piacenza Law Festival since 2008, to which I had the privilege of participating at his invitation, he directed the legal journals "Politics of Law" and "Critical Review of Private Law." Its major scientific contributions focus on the issue of civil law framed in a constitutional perspective, especially with regard to the protection of the fundamental rights of the citizen, the protection of privacy, free access to knowledge, summarised in the formula of great impact: the right to have rights. After an initial militancy in the Radical Party of Mario Pannunzio, Rodotà was first elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 1979 as an independent member of the Communist Party. Re-elected in 1983, he became president of the Independent Left Group and is part of the Parliamentary Committee for Reforms chaired by Aldo Bozzi. After the turn of Bolognina, the 1991 Congress of Rimini joined the Democratic Party of the Left, of which he will be the first president of the National Council end in 1992. Elected Vice President of the Chamber in the XI legislature, on 25 May 1992 he presided over the Parliament in joint session during the elections of Oscar Luigi Scalfaro to the Presidency of the Republic. At the end of the parliamentary term, in 1994 he decided not to go back to university education. Its institutional commitment continued outside Parliament's classrooms: first President of the Data Protection Supervisor from 1997 to 2005; President of the European Data Protection Group from 2000 to 2004; Chairman of the Scientific Commission of the European Fundamental Rights Agency in 2007. As a representative of the Italian Government, he participated in the work of the Convention, led by the former President of the German Federal Republic, Roman Herzog, who prepared the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union in 2000. His commitment to bioethics studies has also been important, in which he has always maintained a strictly secular approach focused on the protection of self-determination rights. With regard to the relationship between the law and evolution of the web, in addition to participation in the Internet governance forum of the UN, it is recalled its contribution in 2014 as chairman of the Internet Bill of Rights commission, called to elaborate the general principles of online communication in order to define the addresses for Italian laws in this matter. An important aspect of his research concerns the protection of personal freedom in the world of the network and big data, conceived as a neutral and egalitarian space and not as a mere market instrument. The academic career and the political and institutional commitment of Stefano Rodotà are strongly intertwined with the role of militant intellectual, who sees him until the last protagonist and promoter of numerous political-cultural initiatives as well as author of a copious and articulated essay production. In all these areas, the characteristic of his style has been translated into the ability to unite the rigour and lucidity of the analysis with the argumentative passion; all accompanied by acute legal reflections guided by the lighthouse of the protection of the rights and the defence of the Republican Constitution. In formulating the emotional and unanimous participation of the Senate of the Republic in the pain of the family, of the wife Carla and of the son Carlo present in the gallery, of the friends and of the scientific community, for the loss of a great man of the institutions, I invite the Assembly to observe a minute of recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Live and prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u11	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the public debate, Stefano Rodotà has often been called a constitutionalist. The term is academically improper because he was an outstanding teacher of civil law; one of the highest of his generation by common consent. But the definition is probably less inappropriate if we consider how much Rodotà has been able to lower the Constitution and its fundamental principles in the plots of inter-private relations. Not by chance, it was he who wrote the commentary on Article 42 of the Charter, in the matter of property, in the prestigious "Commentary to the Constitution" edited by Giuseppe Branca for Zanichelli. In fact, it is its capacity to grasp the constitutional value of the legal relations between individuals that can also help us understand its political path. Personally I have been following that path since Rodotà was a young and brilliant editorialist of... Panorama. I had studied his beginnings in the Italian Goliardic Union and at that time some of his references - I think first of all Franco Roccella and Marco Pannella - were also mine. Rodotà was then the young interpreter of a new liberalism, which purposed to fill that void that had led Guido De Ruggiero, in his "History of European Liberalism" to define, perhaps with excessive severity, Italian liberalism as a minor or not absent tradition. In those storms, two currents of liberal thought - that of French and Jacobine ancestry, which referred to the Lumi, and that of Whig and Anglo-Saxon, which relied on English tradition and American republicanism - confused and contaminated each other; later they would spread to the point of contrast. A first fork came to Stefano Rodotà in 1979, when he found himself choosing whether to run as an independent candidate in the lists of the Italian Communist Party or in those of the Radical Party. It took the first path and, with this, the attempt to bring into the official tradition of the Italian left a breath of liberalism that could renew it from an ideological point of view. We are at the primary source of that mass radicalism which, with the collapse of the Wall and the end of communism, would be candidates for the official ideology of the left; a sort of substitution ideology. Along this route Rodotà was moved to believe that freedom was based on positive rights, in turn able to generate other rights, in a utopian search for absolute self-determination of the individual. He fought his main battles on this front and tried to make this the identity uniform of the left and of Europe itself. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, of which he was one of the main creators and extensors, responds to this ideology, as well as his commitment to privacy, which saw him promote the Authority in Italy, as well as European guarantor. Even his critical relationship with the left can be looked at with these lenses: not by chance, from the official one he distached himself just when he did not see her fully adhere to his idealtype. It is evident that those who conceive freedom as imperfection, linked to the choices of the person much more than to the laws, sprayed by tradition as a bearer of responsibility; in short, those who prefer to the French and continental school a conservative liberalism of Anglo-Saxon style; those who identify the European identity not in the rights, but in the hills of Rome, Athens and Jerusalem, have often had Stefano Rodotà as opponent and contradictory. Nevertheless, even in contrast - sometimes lively - Stefano Rodotà has always been a loyal opponent, who has lived politics as passion and commitment disinterested and not as calculation and convenience. Perhaps for this reason too, coming from a common liberal root and having developed it in even opposite directions, last December we found ourselves on the same side, against a policy conceived as cynical superficiality. For this reason, too, as adversaries, knowing of his death was a genuine displeasure and we are sure that we will be among those - perhaps even more than some who were on his side - who will feel his absence. [[Applause from the PD and Art.1-MDP groups and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u14	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, Professor Rodotà, who led the Faculty of Law of the University of Rome La Sapienza for years after the parenthesis in Parliament, has failed. He was the leader of one of the most revolutionary and innovative civil law chairs and his lectures ranged from property rights to new rights created by the challenges and opportunities also offered by technologies. But he was always very attentive to all the issues related to environmental protection. Rodotà was a jurist, technically a civilist and perhaps not properly a constitutionalist, although his analysis of the law has never failed to take its cue from the Constitution, as well as from the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union which he helped to write. It was his first studies that critically criticized the problem of civil liability. The identification of Article 2043 of the Civil Code as a flexible general clause for the protection of rights in a world that has been overwhelmed by various changes, including from the legal point of view, and also by the introduction of many issues precisely in the area of rights. He then opened the way to the strands of biological damage (and remember how revolutionary this principle was), existential damage, as well as objective responsibility. It is also a reading that has placed the role of the sources of integration of the contract at the centre of reflection, perhaps opening the door to the interpretation of hundreds of different forms of atypical contracts today available to people, businesses and public administrations. Its also studies on property in a social key. Stefano Rodotà will therefore be remembered as the lawyer of the new technologies. His proposals were then translated into laws; the law on environmental damage, on the protection of personal data, in the double European and national connotations. Perhaps on many issues we are far from the solutions he proposed, but we cannot fail to appreciate the fineness of the analyses and contents of the arguments he brought. Of him, therefore, surely remains the image a man measured in ways, characterized by a lively intellect and an infinite curiosity. To his family and his friends we express the condolences of the entire Group of the North League. [[Applause from the LN-Aut, PD and Art.1-MDP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u17	Mr Gotor (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, Stefano Rodotà has been an original presence in the Italian intellectual world of the last fifty years, because he has been able to innovate the legal culture of law and translate it into political and civil commitment. Of cosentine origins, instead of completing his legal formation with the traditional journey to Germany, he favours relations with the Anglo-American world, where he intercepts and from where he imports among the first in Italy, with a path similar to that made by Franco Ferrarotti in sociology, sensitivity to the new rights; above all civil rights, understood in their universalistic dimension of combating oppression and the protection of the naked life, starting from the conviction that: "the deprivation of rights always corresponds to the cancellation of humanity of a person, which becomes a shadow destined sooner or later to be deleted." Precisely civil law is the discipline that will teach at the University of Rome from 1966, forming generations of students to the rigor of reasoning, to the taste for the critical confrontation, open and barrier-free, to the affair and the encyclopedic erudition of his oratory. He also animated the magazine "Politics of Law" with his idea of law as an instrument not of conservation but of social transformation. From radical and liberal socialist formation, he came to Rome, discovered the world of Mario Pannunzio, UGI, the radicals of Marco Pannella, the experience of community of Adriano Olivetti. And since its foundation in the mid-seventies, it began to collaborate with the Republic, with a series of punctual editorials that transferred to a wider audience of readers the heart of its legal reflection, always included in its specific political and civil dimension. Rodotà met with politics, institutions and institutions, in 1979, when he was elected as a representative of the independent left in the ranks, before the PCI and then the PDS, of which he would be the first President. And he remained a member of parliament for four legislatures, until 1994. Among his many speeches is the one aimed at ensuring the permanence of the secret vote of parliamentarians on issues related to sensitive rights of persons. In March 1997 he was elected president of the collegiate body of the Data Protection Supervisor, which was held until 2005. This function enabled him to address - among other things - the issue of the protection of personal data at the time of the Internet and free access to knowledge, stressing the need to maintain the web as egalitarian, neutral, generative space and not just a mere market tool. Two of the many are the fundamental values defended and promoted by Rodotà that I would like to recall when we remember it as Article 1 - Democratic and Progressive Movement. The first concerns the dignity of the invisible, the right to rights. We must not forget that Article 1 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which he has helped to write for Italy, lays down in a binding way for all governments that: Human dignity is inviolable. It must be respected and protected. The second value is that of secularism, understood not as a content, a sort of other confession, but as a mode of thought, an essential component - Rodotà writes - of public discourse in democracy, a constitutional space that allows everyone to live together and compare. He had an original sensibility that led him to explore new necessary and border rights around giving life, dying with dignity, the right to love in all its forms, and questioning politics, the legislators of today with their too many timidities and hypocrisies. To his wife Carla, to his children Maria Laura and Carlo and to those who have been lucky enough to know him and to love him are the condolences of Group Article 1 - Democratic and progressive movement. Rodotà leaves a great void; his voice and his commitment will be missed, but not the desire to continue his battles in the groove traced by his example. [[Applause from the groups Art.1-MDP, PD and Misto-SI-SEL.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u20	BRUNI (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, I have known the thought and charm of Stefano Rodotà, the jurist and the politician, through mutual friendships that have often put to my attention the greatness of man and the relevance of the scholar and, although I have almost always been distant from his positions, having completely different political roots, this has not prevented me from appreciating many of his theories and sharing some of his battles. In particular, as an administrator of a Southern country, I found its legal and political position in defence of common goods to be fully convincing. Looking at the rights of users, citizens, often means affirming a new concept of public administration based on the idea that goods, whether private or public, should not always be the subject of market speculation. So I tried to be mayor, subtracting from the sale one of the most beautiful lighthouses of our Italian coasts to lead him back to the management of the property and the municipality; in the same way, with my community we resisted the speculations building in the area of a beautiful regional park. The same battles were conducted with the support of Stefano Rodotà for the nearby Valle theatre, so the theme of common goods was affirmed everywhere. Another commitment I shared was that of defending the current Constitution during the referendum on 4 December, as has also been mentioned in previous speeches. Maybe the starting points were very different, but for those of us who were committed to defending the reasons of no finding an authoritative travel companion like Stefano Rodotà was certainly not insignificant. Opposite the arrogance of yes positions with antibodies and the scientia iuris of academics like Rodotà has made our task much easier. Again, from very different political and ideological positions I have had the opportunity to appreciate what has been said in its volume "Life and Rules." In the incipit we find written: "Can the right, the legal rule, invade the vital worlds, take possession of the naked life, pretend that the world must "escape from life"? We live in a society full of law, of legal rules of the most diverse origins, imposed by public authorities or private powers, with an intensity that suggests, rather than a necessity, an unstoppable drift. In that book, Rodotà addressed, in all its vastness, the theme of law in relation to the ethical, social and political choices of contemporary society, the pervasiveness of its potential domination and, consequently, the limits to be imposed on its exercise. These concepts are very topical today and should be the subject of continuous reflections on the part of all of us. I therefore express here the participation in the condolences of family members by the LAG Group and the member of the Italian Directorate, with my personal regret that I could not have, as a law student of La Sapienza University, the privilege of having been his pupil because of the parliamentary commitments that had temporarily removed him from the academic world. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, MPL, RP).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u23	BAROZZINO (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I was fortunate to meet Stefano Rodotà personally seven years ago. I met him as a metal worker and FIOM delegate of the FIAT in Melfi. I was immediately impressed by the fact that for him "right" was not an abstract word but a reality to defend day by day. He spoke of the right to have a normal family for homosexuals, of the right to privacy, of which he was guarantor from 2000 to 2004, of the right to a dignified death, of workers' rights; in short, the exact opposite, we must say, of what sometimes happens in these classrooms, where the rights are depending on who or what. You have always been consistently on the right side, and I also add on the side of the weak, even when almost everyone was fascinated by the economic power of the boss and for this reason we tried in every way to justify the referendum of Pomigliano. As you recall, in exchange for work workers had to give up their rights - remember? - and for this reason, in a deafening silence, the largest Italian union, FIOM CGIL, was driven out of the factories, to the detriment of the freedom of all not only of the said union. You, Stephen, said that Marchionne was not born out of nothing; Marchionne was born for decades during which rights, legality and the judiciary were the subject of a violent attack (a design that became clear in his ideas). You had seen right; Pomigliano had to be an exception, we all remember, and then it became a rule: the rule, President. Today we see what happens in the world of work where the workers are fired and no criticism can be made of the master, pain in law. We just have to say thanks to Stefano Rodotà that, sometimes in a panorama of little politicalness and sometimes even of a vacuum of democracy, not only has he never abandoned us but has led together with the workers and the last a real battle of civilization. The deprivation of rights corresponds to the cancellation of humanity, you said, and you fought to the very last for it. Without taking anything away from anyone, if the workers' vote had been possible, you would have proudly been our president. But, you know, workers are also forbidden to vote for their representatives, and that is the reality. Yes, dear Stefano, you were a true professor, of those who made the history of this country and for this you will be remembered and, like all the greats, you left us one last gift: you were in the front row to defend our Constitution, which for us is always the most beautiful. Thank you, Stefano. We're really gonna miss you. We of the Italian Left will continue your fight, our battle and, as you wrote, we will continue to claim the right to have rights for everyone, no one excluded. Hello professor, yes, you are also right that we are obliged to civilization if we want a democracy worthy of this country. The Italian Left wholeheartedly embraces his family members who are present in this House today. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL, PD and Art.1-MDP Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u26	Mr Capelletti (M5S). Mr President, Stefano Rodotà can be recalled in many ways: as an intellectual, as an eminent professor of law, whose academic commitment has always been intertwined with political, parliamentary and first authoritative guarantor of privacy. He was certainly a protagonist in the civil and political life of our country. But next to that, we would like to remember him first of all for the privilege that the 5 Star Movement had in sharing with him the battle in defense of our Constitution, which was put at risk by the most useless and harmful reform of the history of the Republic. [[Applause from Senator Mangili.]] We know then how it went: that battle was won and that reform cancelled with the victory of no in the referendum on 4 December. On that occasion, Rodotà had the opportunity to say that the attempt to seize the Constitution, led with determination and aggression, had failed and that those who had tried to take over the Constitution had obtained the opposite result, that is, to draw the attention of all citizens to the importance of the Constitution itself. But above all we want to remember Stefano Rodotà for the honour that four years ago granted to the 5 Star Movement accepting the candidacy as President of the Republic. In those days of 2013, days we will not forget, Rodotà was not simply the candidate for the Presidency of the Republic of the 5 Star Movement: Rodotà became the candidate of all that part of the country that was recognized in its history, in its values, in its battles for rights. The choice to propose him for the role of President was taken by the members of the 5 Star Movement. The decision of the MPs of the PD summits, who today have the responsibility of not wanting a decent man at Colle and above all in love with our Constitution, was to block his path. In many, not only in the 5 Star Movement, we wondered how Italy would change if things had gone differently and Stefano Rodotà had climbed to the Quirinale. Today we would probably have a freer and fairer Italy, more honest and more supportive. Certainly with his disappearance we are all a little more helpless, more fragile and lonely. Thank you, Mr Rodotà, we have tried to give you the recognition you deserve, and it is probably this Parliament that did not deserve you. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u29	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I remember with respect and emotion Stefano Rodotà, his profound culture, his sincere social and political passion and his coherence. Seeing the curriculum, it strikes the fact that in the last years of his life he has dedicated himself and made available his legal culture in a completely new subject, of which young people are the main protagonists, namely the new computer system, online issues and privacy related to this area. Stefano Rodotà was an intransigent political opponent of Forza Italia and has repeatedly expressed very severe judgments against our leader Silvio Berlusconi, severity made even more evident by the sobriety and dryness of his speech, by the mildness of his gaze. The rule of democracy has meant that we have been on the same side in its last political battle, the constitutional referendum. With respect and emotion, I pay homage to his memory and greet his wife and son. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u32	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, allow me, too, to greet Mrs Carla Rodotà and her son Carlo on personal behalf and on behalf of all the senators and senators of the Democratic Party. The practice of the Senate provides for the commemoration in the Chamber of the disappearance of our fellow senators and it is very rare for it to be done by personalities who have never sat on these benches. If today we commemorate Stefano Rodotà, we do it because we feel we have to honor a great Italian, against whom even those who have not always shared his positions know that they have a debt for the consistency and strength of his thought and for the loyalty of his behaviors. At a time when the firmness of ideas is certainly not the most relevant feature of our national custom, even just these gifts would be sufficient for public recognition by the Senate. But Stefano Rodotà was not only consistent with his principles and loyal to the interests of the country. It's been a lot more. He fought important civil, institutional and political battles and was professor, parliamentary, editorialist and essayist and in everything he has done he has always excelled for a dowry on all: the moral rigor of his positions and the broad and profound vision with which he has been able to deal with every question he has wanted or happened to face. Days ago, an old friend of his, recalling him, pointed out that his anxiety to grasp the complexity of the phenomena of his time was visible from the beginning of his life as a scholar. His first civilistic works on the contract, responsibility and property immediately took place at the attention of the academic community and not only for the novelty of scientific insights, but also for the extraordinary ability to link the most important institutes of our civil right with the fundamental principles of the Constitution and the foundations of our public law. Rodotà with great secularism has made the Constitution live in the facts of our daily life. In these days, immediately after his death, Stefano Rodotà received many awards from those who shared his positions and also from those who had different opinions. This is an unusual sign of true respect and sincere consideration. Whoever has written or spoken about him, without exception, has emphasized his extraordinary ability never to confine himself to examining the problems to be tackled only in their specialist field, but to always consider them in their historical, institutional, cultural, social and legal context. This method of his has always helped him to get to the bottom of problems, to better understand them and to better make them understand. It is a quality that has magnified his analyses, both scientific and political. Untiring supporter of the civil liberties and rights of each individual citizen, he never lost sight of the general interests of society as a whole. He was passionate about the national and European institutions and was able to link their evolution to changes in economic and social relations. Master of Italian civil law knew in depth the legal systems of most Western democracies. A firm supporter of the right to privacy and the need for its strict protection, it has always defended the free press and the right of citizens to be informed with as much depth as possible. In a word, Stefano Rodotà understood the extraordinary complexity of our country's problems. He knew our delays and contradictions and put his competence to enlighten the law and his political sensitivity as a man of the Italian and European left at the service of the reality of his time. In doing so he has never spared himself in the political battle, but always fighting in the merit of problems and never for prejudice. In political terms, we can also say that Stefano Rodotà, sometimes supporting the interventions that he approved, others opposing reforms that he did not share, spent a large part of his life in an attempt to dissolve the full-bodied contradictions of a society in tumultuous transformation, where it is not easy to find a balance between the general interest and individual rights, between the rules of the market and social justice, between the confidentiality of each of us and the bulimia informative from which we are drowned up to the neck. I conclude by recalling with much personal friendship an aspect of the personality of Stefano Rodotà that has always impressed me very much. I have listened to him on countless occasions in public debates on major political-institutional issues, freedoms and civil rights, all of which have seen him strongly engaged in recent decades. And I also happened with some frequency to discuss with him on the most varied occasions. In private Stefano Rodotà was a very brilliant conversationalist and in public debates he was extraordinary in keeping up with anyone who supported ideas other than his own. He was helped by his absolute mastery of law and his political sensitivity, but also by a vast economic, literary, musical, historical and financial culture, the profound knowledge of the new technologies, which he had experienced very early on the positive potential in terms of the progress of society, but also by the pitfalls and dangers that could arise for the rights of people. On all these occasions I have always seen Stefano Rodotà defend his positions not only with argumentative wealth, but also with a firmness and intransigence that came from deep and rooted beliefs. Well, even in the most conflicted debates, in the most heated conversations, even when he and I held different positions or saw things from different points of view, I have never seen him lose the mildness that distinguished him, never seen his broken reactions, never perceived that to beat the opponent dialectically he was tempted by abandoning the thread of logic and the composure of reasoning. We all have a lot to remember and learn from the memory of Stefano Rodotà. To us who face the political confrontation every day in the House and in the Senate Commissions, it may be valuable to remind him as he fought his political or cultural battles without ever insulting his opponent and never attacking him. He always won with the strength of his culture and arguments. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed, AP-CpE-NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE and Art.1-MDP.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u33	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u34	Mr President, I rise to associate the Government not only with the remembrance and words of condolence that have been expressed here, but also with expressing my deepest condolences to the family, to Mrs Carla, to her son Carlo and to her daughter Maria Laura, and to point out that Stefano Rodotà was first and foremost a jurist, as has been repeated several times in this House. No less rightfully, but of better right he felt the need and felt it with a capacity to anticipate the times that had certainly at some time even appeared visionary. In these days the Senate of the Republic discusses a bill concerning the right to the identity of children, with the imposition of the name of the father and the mother; He gave me the honour of opening a lesson to his course of private law to Wisdom exactly on this subject more than twenty years ago. It was not visionary, it was rather this conception of law as a model, an instrument to be put into the hands of a humanity that needed it, even if still that need had not been expressed, systematized, completely accepted by Italian society. So it was for the issues that have been mentioned here, but I want to mention first of all the issue of the right to equality, or rather the right to equal opportunities for people who are in different conditions. He was a jurist who always thought that being a jurist should be useful. I remember he accepted a commentary from me on his book "Repertoire of the End of the Century," one of his most interesting and useful books in my opinion; it was a useful judgment of that book and he told me that, for a jurist, being useful is the greatest of the awards. It was - it seems to me that this is confirmed by the memories that have been expressed in this Chamber today - one of the few figures, who up to now have assisted the country, intellectual and political, that is, those who manage to make their own exercise of politics and also their own choice of field, competent, informed, far-sighted, responsible thinking and public debate. Obviously, when a man of his personality disappears and - we use this word - of his charism many of us feel epigonal and it is right that it is so and I believe it is also of consolation and comfort for his family. But it is important to be able to understand that this charism, this ability to give rise to public debate, also around controversial themes, to frontier issues, was the result of a knowledge that is human knowledge, and it was the multiplicity of knowledge that made it an intellectual of the highest quality. Stefano Rodotà disappears, so one of these rare figures disappears and, as far as I'm concerned, a friend disappears. [[Applause from the PD, FI-PdL XVII, Mixed, AP-CpE-NCD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI), ALA-SCCLP, Art.1-MDP and FL (Id-PL, PLI) and Senator Tavern.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u35	Once again I renew the condolences of the Senate and my staff to Mrs. Carla and her son Carlo, present in the gallery, and to her daughter Maria Laura. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u36	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2134, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Gadda and others; Garavini and others; Old and others; Bindi and others; Bindi and others; Formisano and a bill of popular initiative, 456, 799, 1180, 1210, 1225, 1366, 1431, 1687, 1690, 1957, 2060 and 2089. I would remind you that at the afternoon sitting on 21 June a question for a preliminary ruling and a question for suspension were rejected. Senator Capacchione is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these days, these hours, while we are discussing in Parliament the amendment of the anti-mafia code, criminal organisations continue to do their job and to root their economic and financial power in the global marketplace, not just in Europe. The countries of the new Europe, which are still developing and receiving substantial Community resources, are being given priority to the establishment of primary infrastructure. They are doing so in Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia. Many indicators tell us this: from the mobility of enterprises, even in the smell of mafia, to the investigative acts, even these days, on firms specialized in construction, manufacturing, catering, play and fun. To confirm, if ever needed, that the criminal organizations have long ceased the clothes of the exclusively violent mala preferring to wear the most comfortable and anonymous of brokers and entrepreneurs, widening their sphere of influence, removing it from the Italian investigation centers - capable, more than others, of recognizing and striking them - and moving it there where still resists the comfortable conviction that mafia, camorra and 'ndrangheta are all Italian pathologies. The European countries are slowly adapting their legislation, but without fully understanding the pervasiveness of those organizations, capable of polluting economy and politics without conventional weapons, but with corruption. But it is precisely from Europe that the driving force for the future fight against mafias can certainly come, which requires a European, if not global, capacity for analysis of the means of combating mafia organisations, starting precisely from measures to prevent and confiscate property. And these are precisely the fundamental points of the measure to our examination: from the forms of the prevention procedure to the discipline of the management and the destination of the confiscated goods. In fact, it has been done to increase the types of dangerous subjects and therefore liable to be subjected to preventive measures: in addition to the Mafia suspects, there are those who have given assistance to the associates, but also the suspects of the most serious crimes of the public officials against the public administration, elevated to category with qualified danger, like the suspects of belonging to a mob association. To underline, therefore, also the pervasiveness of corruptive systems, capable of profoundly modifying not only the development of public administration and, more generally, the state system, but also the relationship between these and citizens. In recent weeks, the head of the Public Prosecutor of Rome, Giuseppe Pignatone, mentioned the Supreme Court regarding Mafia Capitale: In his history, organized crime - he said - has always resorted to corruption, assuming that mafia and corruption are two different realities and not always where there is one there also the other. The novelty is that corruption has become an instrument and manifestation of mafia intimidation. Corrutive activity is chosen first of all because violent acts alarm public opinion and attract the attention of police and judiciary; moreover, the mix between the mafia and the "other" world generates mutual influences, so that the mafias accept the rules, sometimes even mutual language, of their interlocutors. The criminals, finally, are careful not to put in trouble with violent episodes the administrator or the official friend, so that he can adjust the invitation to tender with his methods and his times. It is in this context, therefore, that the individual reforms contained in the anti-mafia code should be read. Particular emphasis is placed, for example, on the Government's proposal, already made by the Senate Act 1647, for a further strengthening of the institution of so-called enlarged confiscation, as referred to in Article 12e. With a view to extending its sphere of operation, the express reference to the crimes referred to in Article 51, paragraph 3-a, of the Code of Rite, in whose list the most serious environmental crimes (of disaster and pollution) and the crime of organized traffic of waste have been inserted very appropriately. The text now under consideration moves in the direction of the valorization of the affinities of the extended confiscation with the confiscation of prevention, with the clear intention of refining a legal equipment with indisputable profiles of complementarity: in this perspective, for example, the legitimate origin of the goods can no longer be justified by the proposal arguing that the money used to acquire them is sourced or reuse of tax evasion (in these terms, for the confiscation of prevention, the jurisprudence of legitimacy has already been expressed, even in united sections). The reform, therefore, crystallizes in the norm what so far is only a legal indication, albeit qualified. As the confiscation of prevention does not, by its structure, exclude a finding of liability for the crimes the commission of which is the background to which it fits, so the extended confiscation is free, as far as possible, from the fate of the criminal proceedings, in order to satisfy as best as possible the need, underlying it, of neutralization of the autonomous danger of the assets of illegal formation. The affinity of the two confisches has also led to a significant assimilation of the provisions on the administration and destination of the goods, making applicable to the extended confiscation of the rules on prevention confiscation, including the rules on the protection of third parties and the execution of the seizure. In this general dimension, it should also be considered the interest reserved to the profile of the specialization of the sections of court that deal with the matter of prevention: one per district, preserving the exception of the surroundings of Trapani and Santa Maria Capua Vetere. Well it would have been, however, to preserve the hermeneutic ratio of the two exceptions, prior to the new judicial geography, widening them to the courts of Marsala and Naples North, competent to decide on the cosca that is under Matteo Messina Money and the major and more structured clans of the Neapolitan and Caserta Camorra, currently in the availability - it is said - of the courts of Naples North. The need for specialization in an area of objective complexity and delicacy appears to be doubtful, also taking into account, on the one hand, the increase in the quality and quantity of prevention procedures and, on the other hand, the need for uniform application of a general request to guarantee the priority treatment of procedures for the application of capital prevention measures. No progress on efficiency can be said to have been achieved on a permanent basis if not accompanied by a corresponding adjustment to the mechanisms for safeguarding the effectiveness of defensive guarantees and the rights of third parties in good faith. The reform efforts aimed at making known to the parties, interested parties and defenders, already with the notice of the hearing, the minimum content of the proposal for prevention, should therefore be appreciated. (Follows CAPACCHONE). A further guideline for reform concerns measures to strengthen capital investigations and to make the process of asset prevention and administration, management and destination of seized and confiscated assets more effective. Innovations aimed at promoting the recovery of enterprises infiltrated by criminal organisations are proposed. Above all, Article 34- bis introduces the institute of judicial control in substitution of the judicial administration, in cases where the facilitation of the activity of subjects subject to prevention measures does not take on the character of stability and there are factual circumstances from which it can be deduced the concrete danger of mafia infiltrations suitable to condition the activity of enterprise. This is the case, for example, of the companies that were once affected by the so-called atypical information, often because the owners of the same had suffered unreported extortion or because in the yard passages they had absorbed contiguous labor from the clans. Such a measure does not result in the exhaustion of the management of the business activity and introduces a less invasive prescriptive supervision intervention entrusted to a judicial commissioner appointed by the court, with the task of monitoring from within the company the fulfilment of the requirements of the judicial authority. The interventions mentioned above are accompanied by some changes - which can no longer be postponed, after the discovery of unlawful behaviour in some judicial bodies - finalized to make more transparent the criteria for the appointment of directors of the seized and confiscated assets, in order to ensure the rotation of the assignments and the correspondence between the professional profile of the auxiliary and the typology of the assets learned in advance. The line of action concerning the management and destination of assets seized and confiscated from organised crime is a key chapter in a renewed strategy of aggression against the illicit accumulation of capital. Moreover, a view of the National Agency emerged as a structure with functions of aid to the delegated judge, from the moment of the seizure and until the confiscation of second degree. It is attributed to the administration and the destination of the goods after the exhaustion of the judgment of merit. The role of the Agency in the seizure phase is aimed at facilitating the provisional allocation of assets and companies to territorial authorities or to the third sector for institutional or social purposes. In this sense, the need to orient the perspective in the light of a "redditivity" of goods, not so much in a strictly economic sense, but in a broader sense, to be understood as an affirmation of the legality and presence of the State as a response to the social needs of the community. The enhancement of confiscated property is an essential point of the reform with a view to meeting the requirements of jurisdiction with the operational requirements of asset management since the seizure. The aim is not only to strengthen the capacity for dynamic management of assets in the judicial phase through the allocation, as seen, of adequate professional resources, to be used for the appointment of directors, but also to define the tools for programming and implementation of re-use policies in terms of welfare and social inclusion, cooperative promotion and youth entrepreneurship, job protection and new employment, economic and productive development. For confiscated property, transfers to local authorities are permitted, including for economic purposes, provided that they are accompanied by the obligation to re-use the proceeds for social purposes. A step forward that has long been desired by local administrators, overcoming, without prejudice, the non-sustainable obligation of re-use of unsuitable and dilapidated buildings, whose use would impose very expensive static, anti-seismic and fire-fighting works. In other words, an additional cost to the community. [[Senator Spousetti's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u39	Mr President, I hope that Senator Lumia will end the call so that he can listen to my speech. [[Comments of Senator Lumia]] I believe, Mr President, that there is no political force in this Senate, in this Parliament, or any of us who do not intend to cooperate with determination in the adoption of rules that are aimed at combating organised crime. I believe there is no political force that has ever hindered these objectives or reduced organised crime. Documenta habemus : we have the legal provisions, approved by the various successive governments. I also remember - and why not? - incisively the Governments chaired by President Berlusconi. Therefore, the fight against organised crime has always been a battle supported by all the political forces of our country. The rapporteur for this measure has a great responsibility because, for his objectives and purposes, this measure must be approved by a large majority of this House. It is unbearable to imagine that it will be voted in favour of by some political forces and opposed by other forces in this House. I say this because a possible vote against lends itself to the most ambiguous interpretations. It is almost as if we want to cut back on organised crime; we do not want to cooperate in the fight against crime. But, as in the Commission, Senator Caliendo and the rapporteur, Mr Lumia, gave us some corrective ideas for the measure, which was also accepted by the rapporteur, Mr Pagliari - it was in some way correct that there was some error in the drafting that came from the House - at some point, we do not know why, these remarks, perhaps even more correct and more just, have not been transposed. I am told that no amendments have been tabled: the technique of the amendment, Senator Lumia, aims to sharpen a contrast. This is a measure which, apart from amendments which are adopted or rejected, the political forces must correct by agreement. And what is the vulnus that worries those in the state who must say no to this provision? The vulnus is represented by the equalization of crimes against public administration to Mafia crimes. It is not only a logical and practical concern, but, if I may, the lawyers of this House, even semantic and technical, because the measure before us is going to upset the nature of the prevention measures. As everyone knows, the nature of prevention measures must be seen in the social danger. The State intervenes in a precautionary and early way to block assets and actions with personal prevention measures, requiring the subject to withdraw at a certain time, indicating rules for his daily action, adopting measures of a patrimony nature to seize his assets and appointing subjects indicated by the same court. It is clear that there can be no such equivalence and it becomes paradoxical when one does not realize that, for example, for the offence of misuse, the possibility of initiating prevention procedures is envisaged. I remember that the offence of misuse is that committed by the public administrator who uses a sheet of paper, a telephone or a service car for personal purposes. Well, the crime is hateful, but I challenge any of you to consider how much more hateful and social alarm the feminicide crime is. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] I'll explain to you why for prevention measures there must be a requirement for social danger. The prevention procedure cannot be activated on the basis of the seriousness of the crime, because, if so, we should consider the prevention measures applicable for all offences. As far as I am concerned, the crimes are all hateful, but those for which a prevention procedure is initiated must necessarily be of high social danger and I do not believe that this element of danger can be seen in a common crime against the public administration. There have been a number of pressures from outside Parliament. I personally expressed my admiration and appreciation for those who, outside Parliament, spent their time and committed words and voices to call for convergence between political forces who were in discord on this point. It is not the only direction of contributions that came to us from outside; yesterday I attended a conference together with Don Luigi Ciotti, outside Parliament, who in public stated the need to equate crimes against public administration with Mafia crimes. One cannot be surprised if there is Guy who, with his authority or supposedly such, intervenes in the parliamentary debate and does not do so if other subject, also with his authority or presumed such, does the same. I personally thank both of them, although I regard them differently, because I welcome the suggestion of one, which aims to create a balance, an understanding that will ensure that this Parliament, this Senate, approves by a very large majority a measure of this delicacy. And here is the delicate function of the rapporteur. The rapporteur must perceive these stimuli, he must perceive these needs, also coming from the doctrinal world. Also because there was an alarm. The Italian doctrine was alarmed by such a provision. I allowed myself, from the modesty of my preparation, to solicit at least a link with Article 416 of the Criminal Code. The crime against public administration, corruption, and the sinful are hateful crimes but can become a social alarm only when they are committed in association form, and therefore as an association to criminals. Then, in a verse, we resolve the concern of a citizen who committed a crime, albeit sanctionable but of minor importance, what can be a flawed use, and, at the same time, we satisfy that requirement shouted by the Italian doctrine, by the lawyers of our country who have launched the alarm for such a measure. I want to vote for a measure that combats organised crime. And you must put me in a position to vote on it. You cannot do me wrong (i.e. the majority in government) not to vote on a measure to combat organised crime. You put me in a state of uneasy conscience in having to say no. And so this is my cry: correct it! Correct these points. Then there is the problem anticipated by Senator Capacchione, that is to say the error you made in imagining the institution of the district anti-Mafia in Santa Maria Capua Vetere and not in Naples North, even if the territories of most malavitous frequentation were the jurisdiction of the court. If you want to do this, do it. I'm not so passionate about it anymore. Just as I am not passionate about the reform, which I perhaps share, on the agencies, moving the headquarters from Reggio Calabria to Rome and creating other locations on the national territory. Similarly, I welcome the possibility of selling confiscated and not sometimes used assets to those who make bad use of them. The State cashes out, and needs to cash in, but correct the central point of this provision, this wicked equivalence that finds no comfort either in law, doctrine or in the country. Do this and we will have no problem voting on the measure and you may be proud to have the majority of the Senate vote on this measure. Don't leave like you're hiding under the wall with the provision in your pockets. It's not good for you, it's not good for us, it's not good for the country. Please correct him. And on the outcome of your determinations, my Group will take the decision whether to vote in favour or not. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia has always been prepared to adopt laws aimed at promoting and making more effective the fight against organised crime, against the mafias and, when it had the responsibility of government, it has waged a non-neighborhood war on criminal organizations and has also taken on numerous successes. I would also point out that under each Government these successes are mainly due to the magistrates who conduct the investigations and to the Forces of the Order who, through practical action, implement the measures that constitute the completion of all these investigations. Therefore, we have also worked on this occasion and we intend to continue to do so so so that this measure is as effective as possible in the fight against organised crime. We have done so in the Commission and I thank all the members of it, starting with the rapporteur, Mr Lumia, who worked on this text, which is entirely technical, but in technique there are very important elements of content. The fight against organised crime can and must also be conducted with special instruments that we could not introduce in other areas, because they could conflict with the Constitution or even with documents of international law. The issue of mafia crime and organised crime can and must be conducted by extraordinary means which have an effective effect in reality and can lead to defeat and at least to an effective pursuit of this phenomenon. However, it does not only pollute the reality of so many parts of our country alas, not only relegated to the South, but also elsewhere. Unfortunately, in fact, there have been those who define themselves as metastases in medicine, who have also manifested themselves far away from the places where they are traditionally accustomed to imagine the presence of this phenomenon, which creates direct damage in all cases in which it has a strongly negative impact on certain local realities. In fact, in the areas, situations or sectors where organized crime is active we often find ourselves faced with a flight of economic activities or even of individuals who, not tolerating and not being able to survive in a situation of this kind, leave vast territories of our country because they fear, or even have experienced, the reality of the cuts, of the infiltrations, sometimes also in the public administration and in all the organs of the State (in politics, but not only), and therefore cancel the possibility of economic growth and therefore the hopes and well-being of many people. There is still more: not only the damage to the whole economic reality of many parts of the country, but also a damage to the overall image of the country, Therefore we cannot show weakness in the fight against organized crime and we must be ready to examine, as I said, all the rules that can help in this fight. There is not, however, just the weakness shown by too bland measures. There is also another way of manifesting weakness. I have often mentioned, speaking of justice and criminal law in general, usually outside the specific issue of the fight against organised crime, the first chapter of the "promised spouses" as an example of a manifestation of weakness that is revealed not because laws are passed too bland, but because we approve excessively strict laws that very often indicate a failure to apply normal laws, therefore a failure of a general nature. Manzoni gives us an example by quoting the famous cries, promulgated in our country in the sixteenth century, some even in the seventeenth century, to combat the phenomenon of good people who had many aspects similar to organized crime that we are talking about today. In speaking of the phenomenon of the good, Manzoni cites, precisely, the cries, a sort of decrees, with which severe penalties were established for those who behaved as good, so, basically, they carried out extortion, carried out various abuses against other people, imposed certain realities, prevented marriages (and this attached to the novel) and anything else. For these people there were severe penalties or the order to leave the country within five days. The ineffectiveness of these rules was seen by the fact that a few years later they were issued even more stringent ones, according to which the suspicion or fame was sufficient - and here, unfortunately, we approach some aspects of the measure that we are dealing with - to be one of these good ones, so they were called, in order to incur not already in the expulsion but even in corporal punishment, fines and imprisonment, in some cases to arbitrate of its excellence. These rules, which were obviously also ineffective, were repeated a few years later, sometimes repeating the rules previously adopted. Again we see a technique applied sometimes even in recent years, when there is a law and it is made of another one equal to give the famous signal. The real sign that we should give when we make the laws is that they are effective, that they work and that they do the good of the country. These further screams, Manzoni tells us, extended not only to those who had the reputation of being one of these bad guys, one of these good guys, but also to those who dressed in the way they generally dressed, even if they only wore the tuft - a device that many good guys used and which consisted of a tuft usually held by a lattice that, if removed, allowed the hair to cover their faces - which allowed a legitimate and seemingly random cover of the face. This criminalized behavior that, in itself, constituted no crime (having long hair is not dangerous for anyone, to the limit for those who bring them if they really go into their eyes) just to show that they did things for real. In this case, there are parties to the measure in question that are at least perplexed. In Article 1, it is proposed to extend certain protective measures, which may be useful in certain cases, for suspects - it should be noted - of a number of offences which may have to do with organised crime, even to cases where there is clearly no connection with organised crime. When the special, so to speak emergency, rules against which certain limitations can be justified from the point of view of guarantees for citizens, even with respect to what the Constitution says, are applied to special situations, it is an account, but when these rules are extended to situations that have nothing special, it is another account, even if these are certainly heinous situations. In fact, as has been said by the senator who preceded me, all crimes, if the laws are well written, are hateful, so you should apply any measure to any crime, but this can go well from the philosophical point of view and not from the practical point of view and not from the point of view of respect for the law: there must be proportionate answers to the seriousness of the crime and its dangerousness. If we extend some measure to everyone, we run a series of risks, among which the first, which seems to me the most serious, is that of writing a law that can be unconstitutional and that its unconstitutionality is extended to the whole structure of the norm, with the danger that people to whom these special or emerging norms would fit well can then invoke its unconstitutionality. And it would be really paradoxical to suffer a defeat not already on the ground, where not always the actions of investigation, arrest and contrast to crime can succeed (in all wars it is impossible to win over every single confrontation), but before the Constitutional Court. This would be a huge damage to our country: a rule against the Mafia rejected by the Constitutional Court. We know, among other things, how information creates a synthesis of the news and how foreign information in dealing with Italy, sometimes in total bad faith, extends to the whole country in particular the issues that concern the mafia (you will remember well, now many decades ago, that image of cover with the gun in the plate of spaghetti and other allusions of this kind). We don't need these things. We certainly need an effective fight, rules that respond to the needs of the investigations, but we also need not to prove ourselves weak and ineffective, because today the fight against organised crime is not weak and ineffective, so we must not approve rules that resemble the shouts, those certainly ineffective, excessive and voleitarian of Italy of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries described by Manzoni, because we would get the opposite effect. I believe that many others are the instruments that must be used to give the clear message that we are against all kinds of illegality, and this must come from the top of the country, starting naturally from Parliament, the Government and all the structures of public administration. We must not go so far as to mention the fact that the government does not implement a Constitutional Court ruling, perhaps concerning pensions. We must not go so far as to mention the fact that certain rules, which require invitations to tender for certain sectors of our economy, are then openly bypassed. We must do exactly the opposite, that is to try to remedy these who are undoubtedly vulnerous to our justice, to the image of our country and of all those who in general love justice, beyond of course the one administered in the courts. We must prevent these conflicts, both by avoiding inappropriate measures and not justified by reality, and, at the same time, by ensuring that, starting from the acts carried out by the highest institutional bodies of our country, the furrow of the most rigorous and effective legality is always crossed. That is why I hope that some aspects will be remedied in the further examination of the measure. As I have said, in fact, certain offences, which are not directly configurable as organized crime offences, can undoubtedly be, and thus extend certain preventive measures to such cases may have its justification. But to extend them to any case, that is to say to crimes that may be under the special attention of the public today (ten years ago would have been others, ten years from now if more will be seen), would be a symptom of weakness and of poor respect for the law, of which our Constitution is certainly a model, and would not serve to guarantee what it needs: a fight against organised crime, whose effectiveness must always be pursued, but in terms of correctness. If crime, particularly organised crime, is to be combated - and we all certainly want to do so - we must do so in accordance with the rules, the Constitution and citizens' rights. Let us remember what a famous thinker said: those who think they are sacrificing part of their freedom to have more security, do not deserve and will not preserve either. So be careful: by sacrificing freedom in the name of security, you end up not making sure and meanwhile you lose a piece of freedom. I am convinced that all the political parties represented in this House have the will to respect our Constitution, respect and enforce the law and the rights of citizens, who are - as the Constitution says - innocent until they are shown otherwise. With regard to the rules against suspects (and the word "indicati" refers several times to Article 1 of the measure), let us be careful: every time you touch the suspects, we take a look at the Constitution and international law and try to write rules that clearly distinguish the State and the legality. The Constitution is the source of our legality. Those who are out of legality must be fought, but we must do so with the weapons of law and of our Constitution. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u42	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u43	Madam President, Senators, Senators, after about three years since we voted in this House for the resolution of the Anti-Mafia Commission calling for a reform of the system for the management of property seized and confiscated from organised crime, we are finally at the final act to follow up that will. The draft law that we are called upon to approve, in fact, even though it is from the House on parliamentary initiative, is the son of that report. The article changes the rules on personal and property prevention measures and reform the Agency of seized and confiscated assets, to improve its operation in the management and disposal of assets, but not only. As others have already pointed out before me, it is an intervention that has been called for for years by those who, on the ground of countering organized crime of the mafia, have clear that in order to strike at the heart of the mafias it is necessary that the aggression to the illegal assets that are the result of it is effective. Repeating what I have already said in my general speech during the adoption of that report, the attack on illegal assets resulting from the crimes of the Mafia must be considered in its organicity, that is, as a whole, both in the phase of the actual aggression - seizure and confiscation in which the State manifests its strength - and in the next one, where the assets taken from the Mafia must be valued in order to return to the community. This intervention, in its two operational aspects, must be the tangible manifestation, in essence, even more in those vast areas of the South where the contrast to the mafias is the struggle of democratic resistance, the ability of the Republican State to be present, through what I have repeatedly defined as a kind of reuse of legality. It must represent, that is, a manifestation of the democratic state of exercise, as well as of the power of law enforcement and control, that is, its strength, also and above all, of the ability to profit political development also through the re-use of the proceeds of criminal activities. As the historiography has clearly highlighted - and let's say it also in this Chamber - not always the State behaved as a democratic state, in those lands that still cannot recover the condition of underdevelopment in which a certain policy of predation, pre and post unitary, had delivered them, even using the mafias as an instrument of oppression and perpetuation of power. To put it simply, the State, removed the resources (whether movable property, real estate or companies) from the mafias, must then be able to give back those resources predated primarily to the people of the South, so as not to make it at all regret the choice to be on the side of the Republican Democratic State. I believe - also as Italy of the Values that had presented on the subject a bill of popular initiative, with which it demanded that the assets confiscated to the mafias became precisely useful tools to achieve the common good with more penetrating mechanisms for their alienation, if not otherwise destined for social purposes - that the balance found in the norms that we are about to approve, for the majority of government given, is the best that could be achieved to date. 18.14 (Followed by Mr Molinari). The measure under examination, in fact, represents an appreciable step forward in order to correct the limitations and inadequacy of the legislation in force (avoiding, moreover, that repetitiousities such as the one that has seen as the protagonist the judge Saguti), with a look also of perspective through, for example, the extension of the categories of the recipients of the measures of personal and property prevention also to the suspects of the crimes of corruption in the public administration. I do not want those colleagues who have just heard some criticism on the point, but I believe that this is not a coercion, where we do not forget how the story of the contrast to the mafias has shown that its trademark of differentiation with respect to every other criminal association is, yes, its ability to relate to certain ruling class, until it pollutes politics, but it is also the ease with which it can penetrate and condition public administrations, completing that theft of democracy that is corruption, which, in the definition of the President of the Republic Mattarella, constitutes the real damage of the mafias. The message launched with these changes, hopefully, is that the criminal does not pay, because he ends up in prison or allows himself to accumulate or conceal the proceeds. The only regret I must highlight, however, is that, for the umpteenth time, I have missed the opportunity, at the time when personal preventive measures have been changed, to prevent the Mafia's special watchdogs from campaigning, as codified in the text of the law that I have been trying to get approved since the beginning of this legislation, the so-called Lazzati law, and which is bogged down in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I have tabled a number of amendments and an agenda that I hope will be accepted, because I believe the Lazzati law is a simple and powerful weapon that fills a legislative vacuum; it is already foreseen that the special watchdogs will not vote, but no one will prevent them from campaigning. This small measure I think can put a brake, if not eliminate, to the continuous Stillicide, which we assist after every administrative election, of consecutive dissolutions of the Municipal Councils in some realities, especially in my Calabria. I fully share, from the point of view of legislative technique, the criticism of having wanted to extend these powerful instruments of contrast to so-called persecutory and terrorist offences. I hope that this will not weaken the primary function for which they were born. But that's it. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u44	Senator Orru is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the reform of the single anti-Mafia text, a very important measure for the whole country and especially for the land from which I come, Sicily. I also want, like the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari, to begin my speech with a reminder and a thought to the many, too many victims of the mafias and a thank you to the citizens, to the public administrators, to the associations like Libera and to all those who daily fight organised crime. The measure we are discussing, already approved in the Chamber and amended in the Justice Commission, introduces several changes to the anti-mafia code, including those relating to the regulation of personal prevention measures, special surveillance, the residence obligation and the regulation of asset prevention measures. It deals with the rules governing the administration, management and destination of seized and confiscated property and the provisions of the Code relating to the National Agency for the Administration and Destination of property seized and confiscated from organised crime. On this last point, I have already spoken in this House in 2014, during the general debate on the report by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the phenomenon of mafias and criminal associations, including foreign ones, on the prospects for reforming the system of assets seized and confiscated from organised crime, and it is still on this point that I will focus today on my speech. In this Chamber I made observations and also proposals concerning both the mandate and the criteria of choice of judicial administrators and not only, the result of experiences related to the history of companies seized from the mafia in my territory, experiences that have not always been positive and that in some cases have not seen real estate and confiscated companies become positive and effective resources for the community, or in terms of the useful destination of the goods or in terms of production centres and job promoters. I think it is important, as well as necessary, today more than then, that companies seized should be able to compare themselves with the market and have the tools to be able to become productive like any other healthy economic company, capable of creating work and development. The measure that we are discussing today with the amendments made by the Justice Commission is to this effect, and in particular Chapter III of the measure, including by receiving my assessments, changes precisely the rules on the administration, management and destination of assets seized and confiscated. This part of the measure, in fact, intervenes on the rules that define the criteria for the choice of the judicial directors of the seized property and on the rules that regulate the obligations related to the termination of their office, providing that the court, if the management of the seized property is very complex, can appoint more judicial administrators possibly determining whether they must operate jointly or separately. The changes made in the Commission, in addition to providing for the judicial administrator of seized companies to be chosen from among the members of the expert section on management of the national register of judicial administrators, also bring specific causes to prevent the taking of such office. The judicial administrator shall also be granted the right to organise, on the authorisation of the delegated judge, his own liaison office. The measure also introduces financial instruments to support and exploit the seized companies necessary for the legalisation of activities not polluted by capital or illegal methods. Of great importance is the institution at the prefectures of the permanent tables on the seized and confiscated companies, to which are called to participate a representative of the National Agency for the administration and the destination of the seized and confiscated goods, the representatives of the institutions (region and Ministry of Economic Development) and the employers' and workers' associations. The draft law in question also provides that the sale of company shares can be carried out only in such a way as to guarantee the protection of the existing employment levels and the destination of the property to the local authorities for economic purposes, with the restriction of the re-utilization of the proceeds for social purposes. In view of the changes that the measure under discussion brings to the National Agency and its functioning, I am pleased to point out that, alongside negative examples of companies that have shown themselves to lend themselves in the operations that the Agency was carrying out in order to regain the company and put it back on the market, there are also virtuous cases of re-use. A really important example is a company in my province (Trapani), the Calcestruzzi Ericina Libera. I would also like to represent again another case of this kind, which affixes to a company always in my province (Trapani), of which I have direct knowledge and for which I have intervened several times in this House. It is Group 6 GDO Srl, with headquarters in Castelvetrano, a company in judicial administration since 2008, which operated in the field of large distribution managing directly and indirectly, through related and controlled companies, or having granted to third parties under the lease of a branch of the company, the administration, affiliation and management of supermarkets and discount in the province of Trapani, Agrigento and in part of Palermo. In 2010 the company employed about 400 employees, with a turnover of over 120 million euros and with activities in 58 supermarkets. As a result of the confiscation order, all company shares were transferred to the National Agency for the Administration and Destination of property seized and confiscated from organised crime. Subsequently, the Marsala court declared the group to be bankrupt, considering that the agreement proposed by the National Agency, which provided for the transfer of the branch of the company, relating to the points of sale of Group 6 GDO, to a company, was inadmissible. The agreement would have allowed the relocation of almost all the approximately 400 workers from the points of sale directly and indirectly linked to the Castelvetranese company of the large distribution, with the immediate start of the activity. In November 2014, the National Agency for the administration and destination of the seized goods issued a decree that included, among other things, the reopening in Castelvetrano of the hypermarket inside the shopping center, with the re-embodiment of a part of the workers employed in the group. Subsequently, almost all the workers in the sales network were relocated, while to date about 50 workers in the distribution centre have been put on the move; this for some has expired in June 2016 and to date they are unfortunately still unemployed. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by saying that, with the changes that will be made today through the adoption of this measure, we can speed up the process of reforming the Agency's institution, which has now become indispensable, so that cases such as those of Group 6 GDO and not only do not happen again, and that the price of the economic crisis, which has generated despair and loss of work everywhere, is not paid twice by those honest workers - and I would like to stress this: honest - who, by lending their work in a company confiscated from the mafia, see their rights doubly endangered. We must do everything possible to ensure that the message that the Mafia gives the job is not consolidated and that the State takes it away. That is why we must work to ensure that the confiscated companies continue to offer work and produce and that the confiscated goods become of social benefit, either directly or through the use of the resources deriving from their demobilization; in this sense, the code takes a considerable step forward. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u46	Senator Giovanardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u47	Madam President, I must say first of all that, when it comes to these matters and, above all, to matters which - as I shall be demonstrating shortly - extend the anti-mafia legislation to other cases too, I am a little puzzled. Having repeatedly addressed these issues in this House, in the Justice Commission and in the Anti-Mafia Commission on the side of anti-Mafia interdictions, which are administrative acts, I have gained on the ground a guarantee notice with the Mafia's aggression; and this is not because I know someone from the Mafia or the 'ndrangheta, directly or indirectly, but because someone has simply objected that the opinions expressed in the Chamber, in the Commission or in the anti-Mafia Commission, repeated outside, in a dialectic with the prefectures and with those who, in my opinion, interpreted these rules, automatically become something to mark with the aggression, even if the relations were with Gratteri, with Canton, with the prefects, with the police and with the carabinieri, therefore only in the circuit of legality. Apparently in Italy it is enough to know entrepreneurs of its own city defined in the interdicttive as decent people, but they are only accused and not condemned for having had contact with criminal circles, transitive property takes off: the knowledge of a good person who is facing the administrative dispute - before there was no criminal - of having had contact with suspicious people for an intervention made in favor of himself or of persons registered on white list - it has been shown that administrative acts contained obvious errors - transitively puts you a mark of aggravating mafia. From 1992 onwards I have always voted for all the measures until the time of Falcone and Borsellino, of which I was and am great admirer even when they were alive - unlike many who were their bitter enemies - when they were severely opposed inside and outside the judiciary - Leoluca Orlando is only one name among many - and I have always done it according to their teaching and with conviction (measures that were then decisive in fighting the mob). Then, however, I am faced with the interpretation of the anti-mafia interdiction that provides for conditions for which the suspicion of a future event that is not a crime is sufficient, but can foreshadow a future attempt to conditioning a company on the basis of relatives or friendships. In other words, I find myself in the habit of situations in which it is not clear what is lawful or unlawful behaviour with devastating consequences for companies and employment or, again, in the face of measures such as this. I have been to the Commission - I may be boring, but I would like to read because I want those who listen to me understand what Parliament is doing, if they behave in this way - where they say that we are working to refine the mechanisms of contrast to the Mafia in order to ensure that the kidnappings of mafia assets are managed intelligently and the Saguti cases, which we have witnessed in Palermo, are not repeated. I am referring to the cases where the mafia and organized crime took the stuff away and then ended it in another equally mafia circuit of favors and prebende. It is very good, therefore, to refine the mechanisms so that the assets confiscated from the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the camorra are managed correctly. But here we are approving another thing that I believe - I say it hoping not to be indicted by someone who thinks otherwise - weakens the fight against the mafia, the 'ndrangheta and the camorra. A democratic country like ours has not introduced similar measures even with terrorism, in terrible seasons, and is now introducing special legislation dedicated to the fight against organized crime, because the octopus has effectively conditioned the political, economic and social life of entire regions of our territory. This speciality, however, risks becoming normal because the measures extend in contempt of the Constitution. With this measure, in fact, the Constitution can be taken and torn. What a presumption of innocence until a judgment passed in court! Other than respect for those who are only accused! We come to the substance of the bill that has arrived in the Chamber. Article 1 amends Article 4 of the Anti-Mafia Code by including new subjects among the possible recipients of personal and property prevention measures, including special surveillance, prohibition of residence and the obligation to stay. In particular, these measures should be applied for the offence of assistance to members of Mafia criminal associations (Article 418). And here we are, because we are still in a frontier area with mob activity. But then the measures of personal and property prevention, i.e. seizure of property, also apply to the suspects of crimes against public administration, of which Articles 314 and 316, i.e. flawed and flawed by profit of the error of others; and then malpractice to the detriment of the State; undue perception of state or community disbursements; Articles 318, corruption for the exercise of the function; 319, corruption for an act contrary to the duties of office; 319 -ter, corruption in judicial acts; 319 -quater, undue induction to give or promise utility; 320, corruption of a person in charge of a public service; 322 -bis, flawed, concussion, undue induction to give or promise usefulness, corruption and incitement to corruption, etc. As you can see, this provision is added to what has already become law (the prescription extended to twenty, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-five years). And I also address my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, who perhaps today think that such measures are applied only to the advisers or city councilors of the centre-right or PD and not their own. President, we are voting on measures that will begin with the seizure of all the assets borne by the ill-behaved city councilor, mayor or public administrator, and then it will be thirty years in which the magistrates will feel whether to proclaim him innocent or guilty. In the meantime, I would like to point out that the seizure of assets is a very serious matter, and we are doing so on the basis of a suspicion, i.e. a guarantee notice, without the first, second or third degree. Then, if I go to see the statistics of the crimes charged in Italy that end - attention, I do not speak of prescription - in storage or absolution, and I think that half of the activities of the judiciary totally ruin a person or an administrator, I wonder with what legal logic we want to extend exceptional measures against organized crime to thousands and thousands of public administrators. I'd like to know which kamikaze is going to be mayor or city councilman tomorrow knowing he has a sword of Damocles on his head. I refer to someone who is no longer a magistrate: I quote, for example, the mayor of Naples, a former magistrate, famous for the accuracy of his investigations, or the President of the Puglia Region. And I can think of so many names of former magistrates, who made their fortunes on the basis of investigations, all high, and who still facilitated their political career. Those who decide to become mayor or councilman will find magistrates of this type who will come to determine the economic ruin of his and the family to which he belongs on the basis of a suspect. But this isn't over. We have included, or rather they have included - I was against - among the subjects addressed to the prevention measures also the suspects of the crime of aggravated fraud for the attainment of public disbursements, referred to in Article 640-bis of the penal code; the suspects of the crime of persecutory acts, referred to in Article 612-bis; the crimes consumed or attempted for purposes of terrorism, and - final icing - the personal prevention measures apply also to those who carry out executive acts directed to the reconstitution of the fascist party. I didn't quite understand what that had to do with it either. Colleagues, I have used the help of technicians who have followed the text, because it is not always easy to understand what we write. These are the rules that have come to the attention of the Senate today; rules that range from crimes against public administration to the problem of terrorism, to persecuting acts, to executive acts directed to the reconstitution of the fascist party. If this seems to you to be the way to legislate and to say - I am addressing the representative of the Government and the rapporteur - that head and tail has such a measure, I would be delighted to know. And I would also be delighted to know whether the government and the majority, even in the light of the election results of the other day, want to continue to produce laws - the last, for example, is the reform of the penal code - that have collected the total disregard of lawyers, magistrates and prosecutors by law, if only because you do not understand what is written and because technically they are totally wrong. Let us not act like we did in the car accident, in the sense that we must make the rules quickly and furiously to give signals. When we make laws, we must not give signals: we must do something serious that the interpreters can read and the citizens can grasp their scope. Is it so out of place, then, to appeal to the rapporteur or even to the government to stop for a moment? In the Anti-Mafia Commission, President Rosy Bindi, both the other day and today, argued that crimes against the public organisation would be affected by preventive measures only in the presence of the Mafia, i.e. because of a link with mafia activity, which is not there. There they said he was there and he was sure he was there; but here we have shown that he is not there. Will he be there? Will anyone come forward with proposals to reduce these crimes, including the one of sin? Is there a seizure of assets for the offense of flawed in case someone uses a city car, or does he make any more calls? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Giovanardi, I invite you to conclude. Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Madam President, I would certainly like to conclude that both colleagues and the public have confidence in what we are doing. I have heard many general speeches so far, but no one has informed - I hope this will happen in the course of the debate and the examination of the amendments - how much Parliament is turning out, of which I believe, even in the light of how other measures have been adopted, we would be somewhat ashamed. I hope, however, that there will be plenty of time to make up for these mistakes. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u48	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u49	Madam President, emotional, episodic, fluctuating. It was motivated only by the impression aroused by a given crime or by the effect that a particular government initiative can have on public opinion, and thus John Falcone described the state's commitment to fighting the Mafia. Mistakes of evaluation, ineffectiveness of the actions of contrast, lack of political will: all things that have marked numerous phases of the history of anti-mafia in Italy, guaranteeing the clans the freedom to act almost undisturbed for years, that freedom of action that has allowed to draw from the reduction of times and labors the gain and success both in personal careers, as in the business realities that choose to use illicit services. The lack of incisiveness and presence of the State, the slowness and inefficiencies are, in effect, considered to be responsible for the exposure and expansion of criminal organizations. It limits the success of those who respect all the rules if one does not contrast those who systematically break them; a slowness that, at best, leads to a subtle tolerance and that has led to the adoption of a law on environmental crimes in the drawer, while the mob's thighs prevailed in the land of fires. It is precisely in countering this imperishment that, in recent years, we have recorded stages of state success and stages in which organised crime has taken a great strength; strength derived from two factors: the ability to adapt and a marked resilience, that is the ability that we recognize to absorb a shock without breaking. New sources of enrichment have led the mob's thighs into deeply different territories, using pre-existing client networks, corrupting and criminals. In an increasingly liquid society, where communities are in crisis and organizations lack any part of their power, modern mafias are proving to be an extremely solid and lasting reality. It is the ability to adapt these realities that pushes us to face the mafia problem; it is the presence of an enemy so skilled that it does not allow us to interpret what happens, to repeat the mistakes committed in the past and to act late. I do not believe that the Italian State really intends to fight the Mafia.If this statement by the repentant Thomas Buscetta were true, we would not be here today to discuss this measure, which the House of Deputies approved in November 2015, making several substantial changes to the anti-Mafia code, with the aim of striking at the heart of the Mafia organisations. The measure consists of thirty articles, divided into seven chapters. The change to the discipline of personal prevention measures, from the peculate to the concussion, to the various forms of corruption, makes more effective and timely the adoption of the measures of patrimonial prevention, the seizure and the possibility of judicial control of the companies. There is also greater attention and transparency in the choice of judicial directors and in order to facilitate the resumption of the companies under seizure; changes the regime of the protection of third parties and the relations with the competition procedures; reorganize the National Agency for Confiscated Goods, placing it under the supervision of the Presidency of the Council. It introduces measures in contrast to the caporalate: it is important for the seized and confiscated companies to promote the continuation of the productive activity and to safeguard the occupational levels. And that, Madam President, is the key to success. With the help of such measures it is necessary to challenge the mafias precisely where they operate; to challenge them on the ground of the economy, of the social, on the activities where they build alternative to legality. We must challenge the mafias where they find consensus with the reclamation of companies and the local economy. The confiscs and the maintenance of the labor force get a double result: to prove that you can defeat the mafia with actions that transform the assets instrument of the criminal company into new opportunities of legality, in the feeling of freedom that is lost when the coercive oppression, to which you are subjected, leads to a loss of dignity and injustices, when they serve you to live. The emergence of legality and the sinking of criminal action cannot, however, remain, Madam President, on paper. We need controls, prevention and repressive action. The mafia gives the feeling, many times, too often, of being able to manage everything at will and with disarming simplicity. The Mafia is still very strong, but the state's response is just as strong. Only in the last month have there been several arrests for mafia for having put their hands on supermarkets and surveillance companies; arrests between Catania and Milan; arrests for mafia for the business of migrants of Isola di Capo Rizzuto; arrests for mafia in the field of extortion in Termini Imerese; arrests for mafia in Catania for drugs and kidnapping of companies in the field of waste collection and in bars, restaurants and clothing shops for several million euros; arrests for mafia in Messina for drug trafficking, extortion, theft and robbery. To sum up, Madam President, the measure is intended to amend the rules laid down in order to make the management of assets seized from organised crime even more effective and to make their destination faster after confiscation. I cannot and will not miss the opportunity to thank the judiciary and law enforcement for the work they have done. Every year a huge amount of money, furniture and real estate is confiscated and seized; companies with which criminal associations enrich and finance the organization and their activities. If we, Madam President, with such a measure and with the help of the judiciary and the law enforcement forces, which I thank once again, really have the possibility of replacing ourselves with persons who guarantee the work in an illegal way, then the State has probably done and will do an excellent job. If this doesn't happen, we'll just keep writing a bunch of articles that won't lead to anything. I trust in this and with this I conclude. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u50	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been too long - almost two years since 11 November 2015 - since the draft law that today arrives here in the Senate has received the approval of the other branch of Parliament; an excessive, immense time that - as is often the case in Parliament's life - has increased in the most attentive and demanding public opinion the suspicion and concern that this time too the legislator would not have made it, turning back again, sending back such a useful measure to our country. And even, in the propaganda that occasionally inflates the irresponsible desire to go to the early vote - no matter what it costs - there is a risk of forgetting the absolute importance of bringing the reform of the justice system to a rapid conclusion. Thus, the work of the Justice Commission - I would like to thank you for carrying out a thorough examination of the text transmitted by the House - has often been hindered by external pitfalls, continuous delays, stop-and-go and a nervous climate, so much so that only at the last moment, with a final shot, has it been possible to conclude the examination of the text positively. In the meantime we have received the right solicitations to do quickly and well by ARCI, Libera, CGIL, ACLI, Public Notice and other associations that have elaborated the proposal of popular initiative. I would also like to remind you of the constant concern received by President Grasso, who stressed the serious crisis of legality in our country. As always, it was rigorous also the call of the national prosecutor anti-mafia, Franco Roberti, who less than fifteen days ago rightly warned us of any false steps, clearly claiming that without the new code we surrender to corruption. It has not been too long since Brussels warned Italy that it has classified itself as the twenty-sixth place in the European Union for the control of corruption, or since the association Transparency International has awarded us one of the worst results among the European democracies, placing us one hundred twenty-sixths of 138 countries regarding favoritism in the decisions of civil servants and eighty-sevenths regarding the distraction of public funds. Yet, in this parliamentary term, Parliament has made important progress in the fight against corruption and mafias, by approving the new rules on political-mafia electoral exchange, fake budgeting, environmental crimes, the forerunner, the new contract and procurement code, and, last but not least, the reform of the penal code and criminal procedure. Today the Senate can vote for a balanced and perspective text, which further improves the long work done by the House and offers a positive summary to correct the limitations and inadequacy of the old anti-mafia code, Legislative Decree n.159 of 2011, which has already rightly defined a missed opportunity. The measure we are debating today therefore intends to take a decisive step forward. It presents itself as a very complex text, in which the discipline of personal and property prevention measures is changed; it intervenes on the legislation relating to the administration, management and destination of the assets seized and confiscated with new provisions relating to the National Agency; it reports significant changes to the penal code, the provisions for the implementation of the Code of Criminal Procedure and to the special laws, as well as various delegations to the Government also for the protection of the job in the seized and confiscated companies. I would like to demand, first of all, the right choice made in the Justice Commission in maintaining the Chamber's indication to extend the categories of subjects addressed to the personal and property prevention measures to the suspects of the crime of assistance to criminal and mafia associations and also to the suspects of the crimes of public administration, in particular for the offence of peculate, as referred to in Articles 314 and 316 of the Criminal Code. In this way kidnappings and measures against the property of the Mafia can also be applied to the corrupt. Among the most important rules I would like to mention the new provisions on the rules of the Anti-Mafia Code in order to define the criteria for the choice of judicial administrators of the assets seized and regulate the obligations related to the termination of their office. The examination in the Justice Committee did not make any particular major changes to the provision in question in the text already approved by the Chamber of Deputies. A summary work has been carried out on this aspect, even if I would have hoped that the criteria for the appointment of judicial directors would not be delegated to any subsequent decree of the Government, but could be specified already in the text of the bill, or that the registration to the register would be subordinate also to the possession of the requirement of good repute as well as to the criteria of transparency, rotation of tasks and correspondence, in order to correctly evaluate the different profiles of the professionals to be entrusted. A positive assessment can also be made for the new rules that draw the new structure of the National Agency for Confiscated Goods. The objective is to fill a regulatory delay dating back to the 1996 Act, while the Agency's launch came only fourteen years later, in 2010. Today we must begin to rethink the underlying philosophy, considering the goods stolen from the mafia as resources. For this reason it is no longer justifiable to waste public money or biblical times - as unfortunately is constantly unveiled by various investigations - so that citizens are put in a position to perceive concretely that legality is appropriate. The new code also positively inserts the new extended confiscation, extending - on the one hand - the catalog of offences for which it is possible to proceed and - on the other hand - explicitly excluding that the legitimate origin of the goods can be justified on the grounds that the money used to purchase them is sourced or re-utilisation of tax evasion. I would like to remind you that the reference article is part of Decree-Law No 306 of June 1992, converted by Law No 356 of August 1992, which maintains its historical genesis. In fact, it was following the murder of John Falcone (May 23, 1992) that the decree was issued. Then, in the process of conversion, the murder of Paolo Borsellino was carried out (July 19, 1992). The ratio of the norm, which is maintained and extended, lies in this noble page of the anti-mafia. In fact, the text under consideration provides for the confiscation of money, property or other utility of which the sentenced person cannot justify the origin and of which, even for interposed natural or legal person, it appears to be entitled or to have availability in any capacity in disproportionate value to his own income, declared for the purposes of income tax, or to his own economic activity. Thus, among the new crimes for which the extended confiscation can be carried out, are the environmental disaster, the association aimed at the commission of environmental crimes, the illicit mediation and the exploitation of the work, the self-recycling and the illicit trafficking of waste. Finally, I proposed for the Assembly, together with the signatures of many Senators of the Article 1-MDP Group, an amendment to Article 85 of Legislative Decree no. 159 of 2011, where are indicated the subjects who must equip, requesting it to the prefectures competent for the territory, of the anti-mafia documentation, constituted by communication and information (in a word: certificates). Well, in the case of consortium companies, it is currently expected that the obligation to apply for certificates will apply, for capital companies, for cooperatives, cooperative consortia and consortia, for legal representatives and any other members of the administrative body, as well as for each of the consortia which hold a stake of more than 10% in consortia and consortium companies, or hold a stake of less than 10% and have entered into a parasocial agreement relating to a participation of 10% or more. In essence, those who hold participations in such consortia of less than 10 per cent must not ask for any certificate and, therefore, do not stimulate in the prefectures any kind of verification on the presence or conditioning of the mob in the social group or consortile. Franco Roberti has clearly stated that this is a serious deficiency because, through the consort forms, companies expressing mafias can easily evade the system of controls, although otherwise very sophisticated. Today, even with the vote on this amendment in this House, we can further improve the bill, achieving a very significant result. I think it's worth it, because Italy and the youngest deserve a future of freedom and redemption from the mafias. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u52	Senator Mussini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u53	Madam President, we are faced with an extremely technical measure, a necessary measure which has had a long journey and has for a long time committed this House too, following the path to the Commission of Justice. I would like to make a series of reflections that do not fall within this technical territory, because I believe that the fight against the Mafia can be built on two different, parallel but complementary speeches: on the one hand on the technical discourse, which is precisely what the measure faces, and on the other on cultural discourse. I do not know how much more effective technical or cultural discourse is. What I know for sure is that the cultural aspects of the fight against the mafia cannot be overlooked and we cannot fail to talk about them. With this speech, I would also like to make a sort of celebration of all those who, without direct concern for the technical aspects of the judicial struggle against the Mafia, are the most important interpreters of the cultural struggle against illegality and, consequently, against the fruitful soil in which organized crime is rooted. I think that the Mafia is strengthened in a number of aspects that are not foreign, however, to our country, such as inequality. I think that the Mafia can find strength precisely in the weakness of the State, because where there is inequality there is prevarication and lack of confidence in the existence of a just state. And I think inequality is not sufficiently fought by this country. I think the Mafia is strengthened in administrative chaos, because that's where you lose sight of the highway. I think that the state is not doing enough to solve the administrative chaos, which is not only in procurement and in those realities in which the presence of organised crime is strong. I think that administrative chaos unfortunately covers all aspects of the everyday life of people who in this condition can only see something foreign, distant, unjust and ineffective in the State. I think that the Mafia is strengthened in the lack of certainty and the first and most serious lack of certainty is that of its own work. I think that the propagandad flexibility, which today has become insecurity, is a great gift to organized crime precisely in the lack of certainty of what it is, of its revenue, of its future resources to keep itself and its family, organized crime, which is actually extremely well organised, is strengthened. I believe that we need authentic examples, certain rules, a whole set of guarantees that the State must give in order to make the option of legality appealing. But I also find it very difficult that the option of legality is desirable when there are such great differences and when those who live in justice and legality find themselves having to live in difficult conditions. I have recently visited the prison of Parma, which has again jumped to the chronicles being kept in it some famous condemned according to the discipline referred to in article 41-a. That is definitely a place where all the symbols of the Mafia intertwine with some symbols of the State. In the 41- bis regime there is not a month in which the relatives of the prisoners do not go to talk; there are very elderly prisoners, even over ninety-nine, whose family has never missed a meeting. And we know that they will never cooperate because they are a symbol. And they are not so much because of what they are in there, but because of what's out there. Gratteri also says: the 'ndrangheta feeds on symbols, strong symbols. In the prison in Parma, on paper, there are 400 prison police units. In fact, there are 250 staff and a whole series of mechanisms lead to a reduction in staff so that, at night, the security of the prison in Parma is guaranteed by only eleven units of the prison police. I wonder if this is an attractive state that takes care of its own symbols. A prison police officer takes 1,500 euros a month, as a teacher: I think they are both important and also highly symbolic roles. I am not saying that the state must compete in wages with the profit that the mafia, as well as the 'ndrangheta and the various criminal organizations, each with its own name, guarantee to all their men. I believe, however, that it must guarantee those people at least that they can carry out their duty quietly and serenely. The State must ensure, at least from the administrative point of view of the management of its functions, the continuity and effectiveness of the necessary units. I believe that the state must ensure as much certainty as possible. The State must become competitive with the Mafia in all cultural mechanisms and be seen strong in all ways of building an identity of justice and legality, since those undertaken by the youngest. I believe it is a deep responsibility that of those who today must ensure that the State works well. That part of the anti-mafia code, which is the subject of criticism and dispute in the Commission, namely the extension of prevention measures, must be reasoned and lived within the terms mentioned. It is a huge responsibility on the part of those who perform certain functions to keep themselves above suspicion. Unfortunately, the news refers us to a slice of the state that is not above suspicions. Too many times the chronicle speaks to us of guardians who, far from being able to guard, are themselves caught failing in their function. And this is very serious, because the bad example given is an affair not only personal, but also collective. The bad example, especially when it is given by those who have greater responsibilities, undermines the appetite of the option of legality and justice: it is a personal fact that concerns each of us, when he is called to carry out his own function and duty, whatever he does. If this is not deeply perceived in the culture of civil servant, in all places where the state manifests itself, from the most modest to the highest, then the fight against the mafia has not even begun. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Perrone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u54	Madam President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the approval of the new anti-Mafia code is now on the way. It has undoubtedly been a complex process, which has committed the Commission as much justice as the Anti-Mafia Commission for almost four years. Despite this, some reservations remain regarding the effectiveness of the provisions that will be published in the code described in Legislative Decree no. 159 of 2011. The code of 2011, in fact, showed immediately, beyond the good intentions that animated its entry into force, several criticalities. This is an example of the complexity of the text and an excess of bureaucracy, which frustrated the state's intention to achieve: to have effective legislation on the seizure of the assets of the mafia organisations and on the social re-use of them. It is therefore legitimate, after this experience, to ask whether the objective we have set ourselves to achieve with this revision of the anti-mafia code can be achieved in practice. The creation of the two guarantee funds (one for business and the other for sustainable growth), the extension of the audience of recipients of both personal and property prevention measures, the inclusion of an important distinction between the institution of judicial control (which does not provide for the ablation of assets) and that of the judicial administration are actions that go in the right direction. The long-standing problem of judicial administrators has also been called into question, especially with regard to excessively burdensome compensation and the accumulation of duties, conditions which have cast too many shadows on the state's actions in the fight against the Mafia. Already from this brief examination it can be deduced that the provisions of the bill n. 2134 represent a drastic rethinking of the work carried out in 2011. Despite this, the measure could have been more incisive, not so far as the individual provisions are concerned but in its overall perspective. It is the previous experience, in fact, to suggest that it is not the sum of the individual interventions that shows us their effectiveness, as the organicity of the same. Unfortunately, in the fight against organised crime, the state is moving on a rugged ground, made even more difficult by the fact that the mafia has been rooted in national territory for a very long time while, for various reasons, the institutions have so far moved very late and with uncertain action. When we talk about the Mafia, in fact, we refer to a black economy that according to estimates confirmed by the Government, affects GDP for 12.4%, with about 60 billion euros of resources that are stolen every year from national development and economic growth. The goal is to take away the economic resources that keep the Mafia alive. If we attack what we do on an economic level, we take away its very reason for existence, since the end of organised crime is to enrich itself through the control of industrial and commercial realities dedicated to the recycling of dirty money. In this conflict the state can only win by widening the links of legality, to create growth and economic growth. That is why a new and more incisive legislation to administer property confiscated from crime has become necessary in order not to repeat the mistakes of a recent past, or to deprive the confisks of value. In this way a damage was created to the State, but also to those assets that, in case of acquittal or acquittal, would have returned to the legitimate owner. What has happened so far has been the exact opposite. It is not enough to take away from the Mafia; it is necessary that those assets become a income through which it is possible to have more resources for the fight against crime. Without adequate measures, in fact, the state will end up succumbing to the fight against the illegal economy, starting with the issue of work. Thousands of people, without their knowledge, are employed by the Mafia. When the State intervenes with the confiscation of the companies, the work of the employees becomes at risk, first because the news itself of the seizure creates in the immediate panic and bewilderment, in the employees but also between the suppliers and the creditors. It is this loss of confidence that automatically provokes the business crisis, which undermines the survival of the business. And it is at this point that the judicial administration should intervene intelligently. If the seizure is not final it is necessary to be forward-looking and not to lose the value of the activity. In the case of final confiscation, however, the choice must be either to sell the company or to act in continuity, without creating internal crises and generating layoffs. It should be acknowledged that this text has introduced new instruments for relaunching seized or confiscated companies, for example to ensure broken credit lines, tax reliefs and facilitated access to social shock absorbers. However, there is still a doubt about the implementation of these legal provisions. Although the timing of proceedings has been defined, it is quite likely that without more human resources these timings will remain only on paper. The human factor in the fight against organised crime is essential, since only experienced professionalism and with a deep knowledge of territorial issues can take the most appropriate choices, dealing with similar cases with different solutions based on the reality in which the goods affect. The fight against the Mafia is not only to bring out legality: the credibility of the State is at stake. Where the State leaves territory without a valid economic and employment context, the Mafia manages to undermine itself, so much so that in many parts of the country there are those who think that the Mafia creates more jobs than the State, so that it is more reliable than the promises of the institutions. In this sense, unfortunately, the South is more exposed to the rest of the country. In the South, with unemployment reaching peaks of over 60%, criminal activities are likely to be considered by citizens as an alternative to the State that creates employment. Too often it has happened that when the state intervened in the fight against organised crime the crisis of companies that were still able to produce, taking away wealth and employment from the territory. This is the real failure we face if we do not replace the productivity generated by crime with a legal economy supported by the state. In the meantime, citizens rightly feel abandoned by the institutions that should have defended them. In this sense, the seizure of assets is the beginning and not the end of a very complex process aimed at safeguarding the local communities. "The Mafia" - said Giovanni Falcone - "is not invincible at all. It is a human fact and like all human facts it has a beginning, and it will also have an end and it can also be won by not claiming heroism to be unarmed citizens, but by engaging in this battle all the best forces of institutions. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u55	Madam President, I am primarily addressing the rapporteurs and the Government, because I shall confine myself, rather than criticising the measure, to pointing out some necessary corrections, as we have already done in the Commission. I would just like to recall the commitment and study I made in the past legislature for the approval of Legislative Decree No 159 of 2011, that is the anti-mafia code that we did after stabilized Article 41- bis of the penitentiary order and having given a discipline that, with Article 2 of the bill on security, obtained the unanimity of Parliament. There are some changes that may be useful, but when the change that is made makes the text worse, then you have to be very careful. We have a first question: be careful not to decrease the value of the anti-mafia code. The Mafia needs a special discipline, if we really want to fight it, a judicial and legal discipline of all the interventions that respond to the need to eradicate cancer in our country and that applies to organized associations of the mafia type. However, when the scope is widened, there is a risk of violations of the principles of legal civilisation. When I read the letter i-bis (added to Article 4 of the Anti-Mafia Code by Article 1 of the measure under consideration), concerning the suspects - in short - of crimes against the public administration, I think that probably not much has been thought about. Why? First of all, we must take into account the fact that social danger must exist for all the offences mentioned in Article 4 of the Anti-Mafia Code. I quote only the last of the judgments of the Court of Cassation, judgment No 50128 of 25 November 2016: In the matter of personal prevention measures, the assessment of the current requirement of social danger must be carried out for all the categories of subjects indicated in Article 4 of Legislative Decree No 159 of 2011 that may be subject to personal prevention measures, with the consequence that, being not admissible a presumption of danger deriving exclusively from the outcome of a criminal procedure, it is the burden of the judge to verify in concrete the persistence of the danger of the proposal, especially if an appreciable period of time has elapsed between the epoch of the investigation in criminal proceedings and the time of the formulation of the judgment on prevention. I mentioned one, but the legal principles underlying this decision are in line with all the decisions of the Court. Let us say then that I am a magistrate or that each of you is a magistrate who must apply this rule and who must identify the social danger. We are not talking about a member of the Mafia association, so also the Court of Cassation said that, even if it is an external competition or even if it is a simple participant in the association, for these reasons there is the existence of social danger, unless it turns out a break with what was its past compared to today. Here we are not faced with an assessment based on past behavior. Senator Falanga made the hypothesis of the use flaw, whose introduction in the text of the anti-mafia code is really a crazy thing. However, let us reason for any crime: we are thinking of a person suspected of committing a crime. Can the anti-mafia code be applied? Can it be said that the guy, who's suspected of possibly committing a felony of corruption, is he socially dangerous? We do not yet have any evidence of liability or investigation. So we come to apply personal measures or even confiscation against unconvicted persons. I must not remind the speakers or the Undersecretary Best (who know them better than I do) the acquittal statistics in our country. Not all of these crimes, but only some of the 181,000 acquittals of the last two years concern these crimes. And how do we combine a hypothesis of the value of the suspect with a hypothesis of subsequent acquittal, if it was subsequently investigated? The text, in fact, does not say: it may never be investigated because there are not enough reasons to enter it in the register of suspects. I said in the Commission that we cannot maintain such a thing. If they had told me that these are mafia spy crimes, that they did not need to be added but that they wanted to be included anyway and that in the manner referred to in article 416- bis of the penal code or with the behaviors described by the aggregation referred to in article 7 of law n. 203 of 1991 they wanted to glimpse a connection with the mob association, it could have been discussed, but so does not stand. We're facing a suspect in a criminal case. I turn to the rapporteurs. I have not tabled any amendments, not because I knew that, if I had tabled them, they would have been rejected, but because I believe that in this area we must have the ability to identify solutions together. In this matter - Senator Lumia will remember - we have achieved unanimity in the last parliamentary term and, then, I ask: is it possible to make a correction? I have not tabled any amendments. I give an indication of a serious problem. I do not mention the various lawyers who have spoken on this subject this weekend and have all read it, but they have all highlighted the problems that arise from a legal and constitutional point of view. I think we all have to think a little bit about it. I come to the second question. You say that the proposal referred to in paragraph 1, with the amendment to Article 5, must be filed at the Registry of the sections or colleges of the court of the capital of the district and then you say that, limited to the courts of Trapani and Santa Maria Capua Vetere, the relative proposals must be filed there. Perhaps you remember badly, but as far as the court of Santa Maria capua Vetere, Senator Lumia is concerned, the Casalese does not seem to me to fall within his competence, but in that of Napoli Nord. So, what is the reason for this exception? As for Trapani, Castelvetrano - you are Sicilian and the area knows you better than I do - does not fall within the jurisdiction of the court of Marsala instead of that of the court of Trapani? These two exceptions are inexplicable. It would probably be correct to eliminate them, so the general rule of the district's capital would have its value. There's something else I don't understand, and I'm addressing Senator Lumia about it, because Senator Pagliari wasn't there in the last legislature. In the last parliamentary term in Parliament we have changed what they had done to the Ministry with regard to competence and it was done in agreement. With regard to the Mafia, it is okay that the competence is of the District Prosecutor, but in order not to impose any further problems it was said that, in the cases provided for in article 4, paragraph 1, letter c), i) and now i-bis), the duties of competence assigned to the Prosecutor of the Republic are attributed to the Prosecutor of the Republic. That's what we wrote. Today you also tell me to the prosecutor of the Republic, after coordination. In this way you go to alter that relationship, which we had built together, of functionality because it meant avoiding problems of overlap of skills. I wonder, then, why should you add the word "also"? Leave the competence to the prosecutor of the Republic as it has been until today, from 2011 to 2017: it has always worked in the fight against the Mafia. The competence of the district attorney where the proposed person resides and the competence of the district attorney - and there also of the Republic Attorney - as regards the Mafia: this was the logic of the measure. I did not understand why we are going to alter a system that has been the result of common elaboration and that has produced good results. What is the reason for introducing a misunderstanding? As for the agencies, even though I was not convinced even when I was discussing at the Ministry of the Interior, whether to maintain the headquarters of Rome in addition to that of Reggio Calabria, in the end Rome and Reggio Calabria were maintained: one main and the other secondary. In the Commission you have fought and long supported the need for more seats, because you thought you could have 200 people, half of them to be obtained with competition. There are no budget cover and therefore you have been forced to exclude the competition and limit yourself only to mobility. Since six seats already became an inconsistent thing because they didn't work, what did you do? You have reduced everything no longer to the contest for half, but the choice of exceptional professionalism takes place through mobility. Why not reflect, then, on what we have already indicated in the Commission? Let's limit them to two: Rome and a secondary seat. This is one of the few amendments tabled: we bring people to 100. I copied your amendment: let's select 50 for competition (then we have coverage) and 50 with mobility. We're not trying to make a wheelchair. The National Agency for the Administration and Destination of Confiscated Goods cannot be a wheelchair; it must be composed of smart people because we have 17,000 confiscated properties and that are not managed according to what the rules are! I wonder, then, why not create a functional situation? And the functionality is what I'm saying, that is to have people who are professionally adequate. The last issue I had already raised in the Commission concerns the allocation of confiscated property to the police. I have seen that you have retabled an amendment that I proposed: you could probably make some further adjustments because we have to reason on the fact that the allocation of property to police forces is not a favor to police forces, but it is the affirmation of the principle of legality also in the management of confiscated property. We have to assume that there would be no corruption in our system, Mr Undersecretary, if the scope and area of administrative discretion were to be reduced. Our democracy is based on a pillar that is always forgotten: controls and their functionality. Controls are used to avoid corruption and offences based on the discretion of the public administration. If, hypothetically, we were to imagine that for the famous changes in the course of the work, we had to make a call for tenders to which the same subjects who had the original contract were not allowed, we would have solved a lot already. We all need to find a solution together. During this parliamentary term we have increased the penalty for crimes against the public administration and adopted a series of judicial proceedings and impediments. But has corruption in our country increased or decreased? I want to go back to the ISTAT statistics, according to which it has increased. Yet, from a judicial point of view - as Minister Orlando reminded us in this House - there are very few, or almost no, cases involving corruption in many courts. Does this mean that all those who commit corruption are affected? According to the problems that emerge from the statistics, no. It doesn't work out through that rule, putting them in here like this or connecting them to the mob. Do you want to discuss corruption seriously? I believe that together we could draw up rules on preventive controls that should work. Today we commemorated Stefano Rodotà. It was one of the things he said when discussing corruption, that is, the architrave of democracy and the Constitution of our country, and what can be done to make public administration transparent and consistent with the tasks that the law and the Constitution assigns to it, avoiding that someone can take advantage of it. [[Applause from Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u56	Senator Davico is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the confiscation of property to the mobsters is a fundamental tool for the fight against organised crime, because it frustrates the illicit accumulation of goods and capital and, as a result, brings down the economies not only of some regions of Italy, but of the whole of our country, damaging, moreover, the image and credibility of an entire society. In the absence of mafia finance - let us call it that - and the economy of crime will be destroyed, we will approach the goal of eradicating the damned mafias, which are evidently the main culprits of some of the greatest massacres and one of the deepest economic depressions. We are already far ahead in the eternal fight against organized crime. The great commitment and professionalism of the magistrates and the forces of the order are achieving ever greater successes on this ground, so much so that the size of the confiscated assets seems to have reached by now the value of 80 billion euros and grows from day to day thanks to kidnappings, even of important entities, that more and more happen. This fact begins to strongly engage the structures of the National Agency for the administration and destination of assets seized and confiscated from organized crime and makes their management increasingly costly and complex for the State. I have dealt with this specific instrument to combat crime in a draft law that I signed which was discussed in the Commission in the context of the examination of the draft law that we are dealing with in this House today. Up to now it has been mainly reasoned in terms of the tendency to return goods to local authorities for institutional and social purposes, but the situation that is being created poses several problems. I am referring to the need to strengthen the Agency, which is a fundamental tool for the administration of this compendium, as well as to speeding up delivery times to local authorities and associations (those who request it quickly) of goods in line with their activities. The exploitation through the sale to market esteem and certified by the public structures of movable and immovable property not required or not congenial; an agile and certain regime of management of the companies concerned as it removed the mafia to return them to a healthy economy, the one that guarantees the well-being of our fellow citizens. However, apart from these managerial and accounting needs, it is to be noted that the State which forfeits the assets through confiscation represents the whole of the public interests of the community. It is therefore necessary to find more and more sick resources in order to achieve a more effective fight against organised crime and at the same time to address an unprecedented financial emergency which is not only a mafia crime - let us repeat - but which is often one of the first causes. Therefore, a better and more rational use of property confiscated from the mafia and the proceeds of the sale of the same would allow, in the first place, not to lower the guard in the contrast of lawlessness and to pursue general public objectives such as to intervene effectively on the reduction of the public debt in order to avoid the breach of the deficit-GDP ratio, to pay finally the debts of the State to the entrepreneurs, to reduce the fiscal wedge on the cost of the job and to intervene on the environmental emergency, that - as we see also these days - is subject of great topicality, not only in the field of the prevention of the environmental catastrophes but also in that of the public health. Using those dirty capitals to clean up the soil poisoned by the ecocomaphies and to secure the territories at hydrogeological risk, therefore, would be a deadly loss for crime. The objective remains, therefore, to improve the anti-mafia code by directing the destination of resources, to finally return to the country the goods illegally collected by the mafia, bringing them back in the availability of the honest citizen, often designated victim of the hateful theft of the future by the anti-state. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Compañera and Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u58	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u59	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, six years after its introduction, the time had come for our country to revise the anti-mafia code, a law conceived with high ambitions which, very soon, proved to be limited and partially inadequate in order to improve action to combat organised crime. Over the years, numerous statements have been received by the judiciary, the law enforcement authorities and those involved, to the point of pushing the national anti-Mafia prosecutor, Franco Roberti, to define the code as a missed opportunity, having failed neither to strengthen the actions of law enforcement, nor to achieve the objective of harmonising the entire discipline in the field of organised crime, a limit that characterized the previous anti-Mafia legislation. Now, after further months of delay, with the text approved in the House even in 2015 and being held up for too long in the Commission Justice here in the Senate, we are finally in the Chamber with a regulation that is a summary of a work that lasted months by the Parliamentary Anti-Mafia Commission, of which I am honored to be a member. In the Commission, after approving a report on the reform of the system for the management of assets seized from organised crime, we made a series of changes to the Code, thanks to the ideas received during numerous hearings carried out on a weekly basis, in order to simplify the discipline of prevention measures and to ensure procedures that are more streamlined and coordinated and suitable for the management of the confiscated property, also receiving the indications that emerge from the judiciary. The assault on organized crime assets and their confiscation, in the cases provided for by the law, is, in fact, an essential instrument in the fight against the mafia because it directly attacks the illegal accumulation of assets. The size of the confiscated assets seems to have now reached the value of 80 billion euros. Among the main tasks of a state, in order to ensure the safety and well-being of its citizens, there is certainly an obligation to put in place an efficient regulatory system to combat the wealth and aggression of illicit assets, an inescapable tool in the fight against organised crime. Fighting economic lawlessness means, therefore, first of all attacking the assets of organized crime, returning them to the community and placing them at the basis of the construction of new healthy and legal economic relations, which place the work and dignity of people at the center of a new path of civil and social redemption. However, when the seizure is the subject of a company, in the transition from the illicit circuit to the legal one it risks to fail or to close due to the lack of adequate tools in support of the difficult path of re-emergence to the legality. We are therefore faced with a sad paradox: many economic activities for years in the hands of the Mafia, after the seizure, rather than becoming models of economic legality, fail. In thirty-five years of struggle against the mafia heritage, starting from the introduction of the law Rognoni-La Torre, tens of thousands of workers and workers throughout the national territory, in all the productive sectors and in all the geographical areas of our country, have lost their jobs. Unfortunately, too often the application of the prevention measure causes the alarm of the customers (who turn to other companies), of the suppliers (who tend to request immediately the balance of the payments due), of the banks (who close the taps of the credit). This happens precisely in territories already strongly conditioned by organized crime: the Regions with the highest number of companies seized and confiscated are in fact those of South Italy, Sicily and Campania in the lead, but also Lazio and Lombardy, and then back to the South, with Calabria. This situation risks becoming one of the symbols of the state's defeat against crime, which has often provided the basis for its consent to guarantee work and income, albeit illegal, in areas scourged by unemployment and social exclusion. The return to legality must instead represent a flywheel for economic development and not a further impediment to the continuation of productive activity, especially given the period of serious economic crisis that Italy has been going through for years. That is why, specifically, the measure we are debating today, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies and which will have to return there after the many changes made by the Justice Commission, is a text which is the result of a very long work and which brings together six legislative proposals for parliamentary initiative and a proposal for a popular initiative. It consists of 36 articles, divided into two macro parts, the first of which redesigns the mechanism of prevention measures and introduces - let me say - a radical, extraordinary novelty for our system: the preventive measures, especially patrimonial ones, already planned against the assets of the mafia will finally be applied also to those who are guilty of crimes against the public administration. I am also happy to recall that in relation to the text that came out of the Chamber, in the Commission the subjective scope of application was extended also to crimes consumed or attempted for purposes of terrorism and to crimes of persecutory acts, including stalking which, as Senator Lumia rightly recalled during his report, is one of the crimes that is best fought with prevention activities. If we can save even one possible victim of feminicide through this change, the one we have achieved in this House today will be, for that reason alone, a historic achievement. The second part of the reform, on the other hand, amends the current rules on the management of assets seized from organised crime and the subsequent destination following the confiscation, introducing significant changes to the Agency for seized property. The aim of the reform is to provide for a series of measures aimed at remedying the problems related to the management of the company that is removed from the control of organised crime, in order to ensure an administration based on efficiency and cost-effectiveness criteria. The text, therefore, deals with both the application of preventive measures and the management of the destination of the confiscated goods. Two distinct and successive situations, but closely related to each other. The aim of the text, therefore, is to ensure the effectiveness of prevention measures in the area of action to combat mafia activities, while protecting the workers involved and ensuring corporate governance aimed at continuing business activity. The changes to Book I of the anti-mafia code, dedicated to prevention measures, will have to make the adoption of the measures of patrimony prevention more effective and timely; as I recalled, to include among the subjects addressed to the prevention measures the suspects of the crime of assistance to the associates and, for the first time, of the crimes against the public administration is an important step for our country, because finally we start from the crime apparently less serious, if compared to murders, rackets, or drug trafficking, but that undermines from the foundations the good performance of a society. In addition, the establishment of sections or specialised colleges, which are required to deal exclusively with the procedures provided for in the anti-mafia code, is excellent. We must, in fact, do everything to promote the resumption of the companies under seizure, we must provide for incisive measures, such as the establishment of a fund and other measures to support the continuation of activities and the consequent safeguarding of employment levels, perhaps through the provision of relief for those who hire former employees of companies subject to seizure or confiscation who are left without work. Finally, it was considered necessary to reorganize and strengthen the National Agency for Confiscated Goods, which remains under the supervision of the Ministry of the Interior and of which new peripheral locations have been established; besides Reggio Calabria also Palermo, Catania, Naples, Bologna and Milan. In order to combat episodes of corruption and misrepresentation of public money, and following the scandals in Sicily, it was then decided to ensure greater transparency in the choice of judicial administrators, ensuring skills suitable for carrying out the task and rotation of the same. Hitting the assets of organised crime is not enough, however, if this action is not accompanied by the return of the same assets to the community and their use for productive purposes. The loss of jobs and the consequent establishment of a climate of social tension do not allow an effective fight against organised crime because they imply in the community the distorted idea that, if the mafia were able to offer and guarantee jobs, the state failed to achieve the same objective. On the basis of these considerations, I hope that in future new and more effective proposals for the re-use for social purposes of companies seized and confiscated from mafia crime can be studied. The latter not only represent the symbol of the state's struggle against criminal organizations in our economic fabric, but above all they must be a concrete opportunity to raise the country's economy and offer opportunities for social aggregation, dedicated primarily to our young people. Ideas will be designed for the creation of sports, cultural, study and leisure centers. Only in this way will we be able to face and overcome the challenges facing us in the fight against organised crime. Only in this way will we be able to maximise the extraordinary work carried out by the law enforcement agencies and the judiciary in terms of repression. Only in this way will we win the cultural battle for justice and legality. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u60	The general debate is closed. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u63	AIROLA (M5S). Madam President, for Agcom, Grexit is already a well-known reality, namely Greece is no longer in Europe, to the point that in the official video for the end of roaming in Europe, the Telecommunications Supervisory Authority cancels it with a sponge stroke Athens and all its fellow citizens (you can find it on the YouTube channel of Agcom). In Brussels, the short commercial immediately stirs the mood of the Government of Alexis Tsipras who openly expresses his disappointment at the work of the Authority led by Angelo Cardani, creating, among other things, a great embarrassment to us Italians, who also paid for this commercial. Cardani is the same one who thought well to hire long ago the communication manager David Nebiolo, supervisor of the indicted video. On the assumption of David Nebiolo we had already protested, because according to us he did not have the characteristics to occupy that post (the custody of the commission of communicator had happened as CEO of a Roman restaurant). The question of his taking over the law (we have also made an exposure to Canton, which has not yet moved a finger) has remained outstanding. Certainly it is difficult to intervene at this moment calling into question the work of Cardani who at this moment is the needle of the balance in the ongoing dispute, very important, between the French Vivendi and the Mediaset by Silvio Berlusconi. The stakes, gentlemen, are very high: Agcom is also the authority that supervises the par condicio in electoral times and therefore does the beautiful and bad time in deciding who has gone over and who not in the television passages and creating public opinion, especially in a country where the component of elderly people who look at the small screen is very high and is therefore influenceable through the storytelling inaugurated in the renziana era. We therefore ask that Agcom turn on television, begin to realize how things are going about pluralism on television and do not delete it as well as Greece deleted from the video. I say this because we have just received the announcement of the invitation for the Authority's annual report on communications on Tuesday 11 July: perhaps David Nebiolo, between one carbonara and the other, could correct the video. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u66	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Madam President, I rise to announce that this afternoon the Northern League Group submitted a parliamentary question to Minister Minniti similar to two previous ones, the 4-07299, presented on 30 March, and the 4-07375, presented on 19 April. The issue is immigration and it is not just new arrivals (some 10,000 asylum seekers/clandestines have arrived on our coasts in the last four days). With this question, we want to have a light on the presence of asylum seekers and refugees in the reception system, on the presence of those who remain in the extraordinary reception centres, in the first reception centres, in the hot spots and in the SPRAR. The figures do not convince us, Madam President, we are not convinced by the lack of numerical data and the lack of transparency of this Government. I stress that for more than two months the Ministry no longer provides data on presences in the reception system in the daily dashboard. We have summary data that are important, however. At the end of December, there were just over 176,000 visitors in the reception system. Well, on April 18, the last available figure, there were just over 180,000, 3,000 or 4,000 extra units, and we wonder how this minimum increase is possible, considering that since the beginning of the year there are almost 70,000 applications for asylum received and that relocations, therefore the numbers to be subtracted from those related to those who are maintained in the reception system, are just over 2,500. In short, we should record 220,000-230,000 presences in the reception system. We therefore wonder why such a small number is being reported and wonder whether there are thousands of unjustified removals from asylum seekers. We are in doubt that a person who may have escaped from war or persecution, once he has obtained refugee status, subsidiary protection, is immediately kicked out of the reception system and is no longer kept for months as it was previously done. In short, it would be serious for those who flee from wars and obtain refugee status to be thrown out of the reception system and instead, in the same reception system, tens of thousands of asylum seekers who will then turn out to be illegal immigrants. We are putting a very serious problem, Madam President, given that immigration out of control by this Government involves social costs, including security costs, and above all costs in economic terms. Minister Padoan says that this year the management of Cuban immigration €4.7 billion and more than half of these are spent on reception. So let us once again urge the Minister of the Interior to answer our question. I promise here: from now on, every week, I will speak on the failure to answer our questions and every two weeks we will ask a new question, so that not so much the Group of the North League, but the Italian citizens who deserve from this Government the transparency that you are missing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u67	The Presidency will undertake to report to the Government on its pressing request.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u68	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-846.ana.u69	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.57 p.m.
