ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:38 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr DI GIORGI, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 2 February. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9:44 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u6	Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would also like to thank you for the opportunity to have you as an interlocutor because the issue that I would like to address, concerning our Rules of Procedure and the order of business, is quite serious and I believe it is absolutely well founded. I start with Rule 8 of our Rules of Procedure, where we say: The President represents the Senate and (...) judges the admissibility of the texts (...). This admissibility is, of course, assessed by the President of the Commission at the point of reference, on the understanding that the judgment on the admissibility of documents is always at the head of the President of the Senate. Yesterday Mr Candiani made an intervention concerning the adoption of amendment 26.0.25 in the Commission in relation to the measure which we are now going to examine: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 237 of 23 December 2016 laying down urgent provisions for the protection of savings in the credit sector" This amendment introduces a guarantee guarantee of almost EUR 100 million to the benefit of the Ryder Cup, a golf event that has to do with the protection of savings like snack cabbages. There are no saints. I could be told that the guarantee institution is already present in the measure; it is true, but the guarantee is to protect savers not golfers or organizers of golf events. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Bignami.]] Therefore, the extraneousness and, consequently, the inadmissibility of matter appears with absolute evidence. Paradoxically, I could have tabled, and had it declared admissible, an amendment providing for a surety guarantee in favour of the Calderoli family. The guarantee, the guarantee, is already included in the decree-law, so would a guarantee guarantee for the Calderoli family be compatible? I don't think so, and I didn't use the word "family" at random, because the beneficiaries of that guarantee are all relatives and friends of many colleagues, of many who are in the "palaces." [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Bignami.]] Mr President, I would like to remind you that a few days ago we voted in this House a report in which Parliament authorized the Government to borrow 20 billion and whose aims were specified, namely the protection of the credit system and savers. What do they have to do with it, I wonder once more, balls and golf clubs? Absolutely nothing! [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senator Bignami.]] I say this at the moment, Mr President, because we all know that the application of the second paragraph of Article 97 on the declaration of inadmissibility is being cut off when someone has to ask the question of trust. I read the note of the Committee for the Rules of Procedure: When the question of trust is put on the approval of an article or on the sole article of a bill of conversion of decree-law at the time when the examination of the articles is to begin... this results in the priority of the vote of the subject on which the trust was placed, with the consequent automatic exclusion of any amendment, deletion, division or addition to it. Therefore, before the conclusion of the general debate, Mr President, I would urge you, even at the cost of having to convene the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, to make an absolutely accurate and correct assessment of Amendment 26.25, because at the time when the Minister for Relations with Parliament was to be raised, which I see already sitting between the benches of the Government (and therefore I anticipate what can happen), in order to ask for confidence, you will no longer be able to speak on the text, which is in a position to do at this moment. I therefore ask you, with all the common sense and strength, to declare this amendment's first reading, to declare it inadmissible or to delete it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senators Bignami, Casaletto and Simeoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u9	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr President, in 2006 I was Minister for relations with the Parliament pro tempore and, in absolute good faith (I assure you), in the decree-law which contained rules relating to the Olympic Games of Turin and rules on drug addiction, we eliminated a part of the so-called law Cirielli on relapses on the indication of the Conference of Palermo, introducing in the decree-law a series of rules that had been discussed for two years by the Senate Health Commission, therefore rules that had already been chewed and deepened by Parliament. Of course I could not know that two years after the Constitutional Court, with a series of judgments - of which there was no trace at the time - it would have established that homogeneity in the decrees-laws is needed and that, therefore, the same must strictly stick to the original matter. And in fact, the Constitutional Court three years ago, with great tribulation for the left, has cassato the law Fini-Giovanardi on drugs in all the added parts - even if the matter was homogeneous - in the conversion of the decree-law, that is exactly what is happening at this moment. In 2006 I did not know that the Constitutional Court would in the future issue a series of judgments through which, rigidly, it would have cassato norms that, among other things, in my case were already in force for ten years, creating a huge hole in the order that we have filled with effort (I have seen a very recent sentence that says that, Cassando that law, for certain situations of dealing are expected eight years, while my law predicted six, therefore determining also a heterogenesis of the ends). But the principle, which we know today, is that it is not possible to enter into the draft law of conversion of decrees-laws elements not present in the original decree and which did not fall into its purposes. That raised by Mr Calderoli is a completely grounded issue, on which there is a well-established case law. It is illegitimate (and, if you allow, from an incredible political point of view) to insert a rule on golf championships, when we talk about hundreds of thousands of savers to whom all people think, when it comes to saving the banking system and also to refresh these subjects. The golf championships will also be important, I do not dispute it, but I context that such a rule can be included in a decree-law on which the question of trust is placed. It will go to the Commission, we will talk about it and we will deepen whether that money is well spent or not, if there are other sports federations that perhaps deserve more, but it cannot be included in a decree-law on which trust is placed. Mr President, I appeal to your wisdom because in 2006 the Presidents of the House and the Senate could not know, predicting the future, that the Court would have expressed itself in a certain way. Today, however, the presidencies of the House and the Senate know very well that what they have done in the Commission is totally illegitimate. [[Applause from Senators Calderoli, Liuzzi and Tremonti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u10	This time I ask for an intervention for the order of business. We are talking about a subject which has not yet been introduced for debate in this House. Allow me, therefore, to turn to the relevant item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u11	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2629. I would like to thank Senator Calderoli, who has given us a reading of the Rules of Procedure that the Presidency knows, and also Senator Giovanardi, who has explained constitutional jurisprudence to us. However, if the Presidency had had the opportunity to move on to the subject on the agenda, it would have informed us that it had already decided independently of these speeches. I therefore communicate my decisions and then anyone who wants to intervene will be able to do so. I see that there are so many members, but I don't know if they want to talk about the same topic. According to article 97, paragraph 1, of the Regulation - Senator Calderoli, it is paragraph 1 and not paragraph 2 - amendment 26.0.25, approved in the Commission, is improbable because it does not concern subjects institutionally responsible for the protection of savings, referred to in article 47 of the Constitution, which is instead the proper purpose of the provision to our examination [[Applause from the M5S, LN-Aut, GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) and Mixed-SI-SEL, and Senator Rizzotti]] No applause, please!
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u14	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I should like to congratulate you on your decision. I have spoken to support this request and once again to point out to you that the amendment to the text is completely out of date and you have exercised your prerogatives under Rule 97 (1) of our Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u15	The rapporteur, Senator Marino Mauro Maria, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u16	Mr President, Madam Minister, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in dealing with the conversion of the decree-law with urgent provisions for the protection of savings in the credit sector, I would like to point out that we have added another cornerstone to the construction of the great building of the reform of the Italian banking system. I would also add that, in the light of the decision that has just been taken, perhaps we will finally have the opportunity to bring the debate back to the centre of the matter and to confront ourselves on the problems, beyond the exploitations that have been made. [[Applause from Senator Elena Ferrara]] , and see who really wants to protect savers and who, instead, seeks other loopholes so as not to face the real problems. I would like to remind you of this issue every time, because I think that it witnesses the existence of an overall and coordinated framework concerning the reform of the Italian banking system; it is not, therefore, the logic of the commercials, as has been said at times, but a series of precise and timely interventions which have their rationality and which have unfolded, over time both by trying to grasp the needs arising from the political debate and the intercourse with the European Union and because there was a clear reform project, with respect to which there is an element of coherence that we want to emphasize. The measure in question follows the report, ex Article 6 of Law No 243 of 2012, presented on 19 December last year, which had as its object the purpose of allowing the Ministry of Economy and Finance, in various ways and in compliance with the European rules on aid to banks, to intervene with public support towards Italian banks. This, following the national stress tests carried out by the Single Supervisory Mechanism, is the single supervisory mechanism. In order to understand exactly the scope of the measure, I think it is necessary to specify that, in recent years, the Italian banking system has been subjected to conditions of increasing difficulty, linked to many factors. The first is undoubtedly a prolonged recession, which has been caused by the international financial crisis; this recession has led to a significant economic contraction, which has resulted in the increase in the insolvencies of the entrusted companies and this, last, has led to a significant increase in deteriorated credits, especially of suffering and, in particular, of the NPL (non-performing loan). [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would not like to have the atmosphere of this House warmed up once the matter has been resolved upstream, because it is difficult to speak in this situation. [[Recalls of the President]] Thank you very much. Secondly, there is a very low interest rate situation and this has resulted in a decrease in the profitability of the banks. The third element that has led to a moment of disruption of the general framework is the tightening of regulatory constraints, both on capital requirements and liquidity requirements. Finally, there is a legacy of the past: a very rigid cost structure, inherited, as I said, from the past, when we pursued the logic of increasing the number of branches in order to give the sense of presence on the territory; compared to this, with technological evolution we found ourselves dismayed, precisely because of the rigidity of the system with which we had to confront. It was therefore necessary to transpose technological innovation which would lead to a significant reduction in costs. In this context, a limited number of Italian banks (and I would like to stress this) have had significant liquidity and solvency problems. Decree-Law No 237 of 2016 aims to be an instrument that intervenes against specific situations of difficulty, with the clear objective of financial stability for interventions and State aid. The decree-law provides for state intervention as support for liquidity (this is done through the offer of a government guarantee for the issuance of liabilities by individual banks) and as support for solvency (these are the two main branches), through a capital strengthening intervention with the instrument of direct subscription of capital. I would like to point out that the Italian State has intervened (and it is good to remember this in this House and in this debate) in favour of the national banking system much less than other European governments have done before there was banking communication, that is, before the change of course took place on 1 August 2013. I would remind myself that Germany, before that date, had intervened for EUR 247.5 billion in respect of the German banking system (and it is right that there is awareness in this House, given that we are being reproached every day from abroad, by those who are the first in the class, issues that must be put in proper consideration), Britain intervened for EUR 163,5 billion, Spain for EUR 50.5 billion, Holland for EUR 51.5 billion. And so to descend, up to Italy, which intervened for four billions, above all returned and on which the State also had the opportunity to earn 100 million. This action therefore takes place with this precedent and within a coherent framework regulated by the European Union. How is the decree-law articulated? There is a Chapter I, which contains liquidity support measures, giving effect to the granting of a State guarantee on the liabilities of individual banks, which is issued after the entry into force of the Decree-Law. It is the theme of the guarantee the nodal element, which has also characterized the judgment on some eligibility. This guarantee may be issued until 30 June 2017, with the possibility of an extension of a further six months, after an approval granted by the European Commission. What's the target? The objective is to support banks, which, while maintaining solvency conditions, face a liquidity crisis linked to the closure of the funding market. Of course, these are banks that meet capital requirements. I also recall that the State guarantee is burdensome in a way that is directly proportional to the risk of the beneficiary bank. And here some considerations could be made about the combined arrangement, with regard to the fact that this risk is negatively influenced by the positive correlation between the credit quality of the Italian bank and the credit quality of the Italian State, knowing that, of course, a deterioration of the credit quality of the Italian State leads to a worsening of the credit quality of the Italian banks due to the high amount of sovereign debt securities contained within the banks themselves. This consideration serves as a key to reading. Chapter II, on the other hand, provides for measures to support solvency, with the possibility of a direct precautionary intervention by the State in the assets of a bank, which is patrimonially deficient, in a situation of stress testing in an adverse scenario. Let us also mention this point because it makes it clear that the cases taken into account in relation to the past are completely different. State intervention takes place through the subscription and purchase of shares by the MEF. But in order for this to happen, firstly, the bank must be solvent and, secondly, intervention must only be precautionary, and that is what prevents comparison with different situations. This intervention results in the activation not of the bail in, but of the burden sharing, i.e. of the burden-sharing mechanism. And the logic of this intervention is to avoid that a bank still solvent can be carried out to insolvency as a result of the perception of excessive risk from the market. Then there is a Chapter III, which concerns the financial provisions, and a Chapter IV on urgent measures for the banking system, which aims at the possibility of a mechanism for the conversion of the shares received as a result of the forceful conversion provided by the burden sharing into bonds, ordinary and senior, for unskilled and non-professional investors who are holders of subordinated bonds. The sense of this measure is a privileged treatment of retail investors against institutional investors, and it is basically justified - and this is also something that I would like to stress - according to the protection of public confidence in banks, and therefore automatically of financial stability, in a context in which new banking crisis management mechanisms (read bail in and burden sharing) are not yet adequately known and assimilated to the retail market. We discussed this very much as the Commission during the survey of the banking system. Then I spoke of a real Copernican revolution, with respect to which the citizen must understand that the picture has changed and, therefore, also his relationship with the bank. That being the case, these rules are aid for the future - and I shall explain later why - but above all for the past. Of course, the state intervention, in the light of these considerations, does not concern the case of failure, such as - for example - that of the four banks that were resolved in November 2015. Here it is - another element that must be emphasized in order to understand why it has had to act differently - a precautionary intervention, because the banking system needs interventions on what I have defined, discussing the cognitive investigation, the contagious fragility. If this is the overall picture, I have to say specifically that the Commission's work has been intensive, thorough, clarification, sometimes even cleaning up the text and not just drafting. Above all, important changes have been made (more than thirty) which have accepted requests both by majority and opposition. This is a testament to the serious work done by the Commission, in line with what has already been done in relation to the banks. The amendments adopted, in the light of the latest considerations, are due to a number of specific themes. The first is the involvement of Parliament, which will be informed about very sensitive aspects of the banks, with a report that will not be merely illustrative and which tells economic scenarios afterward, but will give sensitive information both to the market and to the legislator. So Members - on the one hand - and citizens - on the other - will be able to realize directly, every four months (on the basis of the adoption of an amendment by the opposition), how the bank supported by the government is going. Secondly, the risk and credit profile of the entities to which the issuer has credit claims classified in excess of 1% of the net worth was published; and this too is an amended text. Thirdly, there has been an intervention on the emoluments of directors and a series of European Commission regulations and recommendations on the limits of emoluments and the granting of bonuses to bank managers supported, taking as a reference maximum 15 times the average national salary of the Member State or 10 times the average salary of the employees of the beneficiary bank. The rules have been introduced - a very important element - that avoid rewards and investors who have acted with speculative intent at the moment of refreshment, and this is because the intervention was in favour of customerity, but it did not have to benefit speculators. The Commission has also decided to extend its range of action to the reimbursements of the four banks put into resolution, having quite clearly - as I said before - that these are completely different cases. At this point, it has managed to create the conditions for the extension of the terms to request refunds from the zeroed bondholders, returning them to 31 May 2017. The audience of savers has been extended and will be able to apply for a lump sum refund by free procedure, extending it also to the spouse and relatives up to the second degree. There was the exclusion of the consideration paid for bonds from the valuation of the securities that has a ceiling of 100,000 euros. Only on this has there already been a significant supplementary intervention, which has also wanted to look at the past and the decisions previously taken. Then there was the extension of the deferred tax assets, the anticipated taxes, both to the BCC - recovering a measure never made in the past - and in general in relation to the terms for the payment of the fee that banks are obliged to pay if they turn the DTA into tax credits. Finally - let me remind you - the issue of financial education has finally been introduced. It is a subject that has been discussed a great deal, but there had never been a chance of making the leap in quality, which is contained in this standard. Of course, what we have done is not satisfactory, but fortunately we have moved from a vain wish to a rule, thanks also to the cooperation of the Government and the coverage made by it. Financial education - I know that it is a factor in perspective and does not want to represent any form of justification for what has not worked in the past - represents that investment, which we do on the future, necessary to create the conditions for consumer citizens to be more aware of their relationship with the economic and financial world in a few years' time. It was a commitment that we made when we approved in this House the reform of financial advice; a commitment that we have finally been able to respect with the cooperation of all. I would point out, however, that in the 7th Commission there is a bill signed by more than 90 senators, which could at this point draw a good boost from the fact that a firm point has been reached and arrive at a quick approval to complete a larger and more significant project in this area. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the decree-law in question was intended to protect financial stability but also savers, and the measures taken were precisely in this respect: to protect savers in a difficult phase of regulatory transition. The intervention of the measure has been clear, well-defined and, above all, consistent with both national and European regulatory provisions and - I repeat - of an absolutely temporary nature. On this good basis a precise and punctual intervention of the Senate has been established, testifying to the will to reappropriate that legislative function that the instrument of the decree-law sometimes seems to snatch from the executive power. This time it has not been so, and for this I am grateful to all the senators, of majority and opposition, who have made a significant contribution to achieving this result. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups, and Senator Marino Luigi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u17	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Scientifico "Leonardo da Vinci" in Sora, in the province of Frosinone, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u18	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u19	Mr President, what we are considering is a complex and difficult measure, which, among other things, affects certain situations which, in recent years, have revealed the serious difficulties relating to the Italian banking system and how it has been managed and controlled by the Government and by whom it must be. We are now facing the issue of the Mount of the Paschi of Siena and its recapitalisation. What we complain about in the question QP1 is that it is true that in the measure under consideration there is a solution to a decidedly urgent problem (in fact, there is talk of the failure of a banking institution, such as the Sienese one, which can in fact irreversibly infect the entire banking system of the country and that is why there is talk of a public intervention, with public resources in the order of billions of euros), but there is a clear violation of Article 3 of the constitutional dictation. The measure, in fact, provides for a different treatment than that established for other citizens who have been in the same legal condition. In fact, the Government creates a discrimination between the holders of securities issued by Monte dei Paschi di Siena, which will be protected, and the holders of securities and shareholders of other banks, on which also urgent measures have recently intervened, but which have absolutely not been compensated for the damage suffered and are still excluded from the measure today at our examination. I am referring to Decree-Law No. 183 of 2015, then merged into the law of stability, dealing with the solution of problems related to the banks CariChieti, Banca Etruria, Banca Marche and Carige. The burden of the transaction on these institutions fell on the same shareholders and subordinated bondholders as those banks. I am also referring to the 2016 Ristori Decree-Law, which provided for a flat-rate compensation for the savers of these institutions, equal to only 80% of the fee, in order to access, among other things, a rather difficult procedure. I would like to highlight this aspect in particular because, as well as my colleague Mr Tosato, I come from the territory of Veneto that has been disassembled by the interventions made on popular banks, such as Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca. We remember the measure of 2015, which we had strongly opposed, and when the government did not take into account - we do not know if in good or bad faith - how the popular banks were structured. They did not realize what the consequences of those measures would have been and now we see that, in support of our argument, the Council of State has decided to suspend the effectiveness of the Bank of Italy's circular itself. But now irreversible damages have been done, because on Banca Popolare di Vicenza and on Veneto Bank there has been no measure on the part of the Government aimed at protecting, saving and supporting the thousands of savers who have seen totally depleted the profits, provisions and the few savings of a lifetime. In that case nothing was done. So let us remember that it is good to talk about measures such as the one we are discussing and it is right to safeguard some savers, but we must treat them all equally. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] It must not happen that in some parts of the territory - happens in Veneto, or a region led by the center-right - the institutions are not supported. It is for this reason that we insist that the proposal for a preliminary ruling be accepted: there is a real imbalance in the government decisions of the majority towards a category of savers geographically, but it could be said almost politically, distinguishable. This measure violates the principles of formal and substantive equality on which our legal system is based. We are all equal before the law and a law, to be such, must be general and abstract and not identify and refer only to some. That is why we welcome the safeguard measures, but on condition that they apply to everyone. In conclusion, we insist that there is a clear violation of Article 3 of the Constitution and, therefore, we ask not to proceed with the examination of the draft law in question. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u20	He asked Senator Bottici to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u21	Mr President, this decree-law contains rules that violate the Constitution on the defence of savings, and in particular Articles 3 and 47 thereof. First of all, the measure provides for a different treatment of the bank's savings customers, distinguishing between the known four insolvent banks, the Monte dei Paschi di Siena and the rest of the Italian banks. The decree-law establishes, in fact, a guideline for all and a different line for the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, in contrast to the line used for the four banks declared insolvent. And this is not fair, since the notes four banks become insolvent when there is the sale of non-performing loan (NPL), i.e. the deteriorated loans (I remember that the story of the hundred names of the large debtors opened on them). The case, however, is not different, because it manifests itself when the disposal of the NPLs is made. If the Monte dei Paschi di Siena were to proceed now to the cession of the NPLs, that is, before the repatriation of the capital, it would be non-solvable, as it is real the risk that it cannot pay its debts. But not only that. A trial is being held in Milan, of which no one talks, carried out by lawyer Falaschi, member of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, who has been fighting on the recognition of the insolvability of Monte dei Paschi di Siena since 2013. It is now 2017 and it was never thought of as the headquarters of Monte dei Paschi di Siena. In this regard, I would like to link myself to the unconstitutionality of another article of the measure, in the area of the protection of savings. If the Monte dei Paschi di Siena police station had been applied in the right times, that is, before all the chaos came out, we would not be in the present conditions and savers would have been protected. In addition to them, everything else would have been safeguarded. In fact, there is no doubt that the management of the banking system in recent years has seen the interference of external policy, which is not the one that has to make the laws, but the one that has tried to manipulate a system that considered beneficial (it is certainly beneficial to be able to manage money). Last but not least (this morning's issue) I remember the guarantee of a golf event with public money (which is always done by politicians outside the system). By judgment of the Milan court, the Monte dei Paschi di Siena could be considered insolvent for years and we give him money before he sells the NPL (non performing loan). However, in European Union Directive No 59 of 2014 (BRRD), transposed by the famous legislative decree No 180 of 2015, the prohibition of State aid to cover losses is provided for. Those in charge of balance sheets - or in any case managed a company or otherwise - know very well that, if you insert sums into the coffers, then you will not be able to understand whether they will cover future losses, because then it becomes the common cash and a penny is no different from the other. We must take this into account, but it seems to me that sometimes the government and the majority are distracted. Another point I would like to raise concerns a further ban on public intervention in cases where irregularities in the administration or breaches of laws, regulations or regulations governing the activity of the bank are serious enough to justify the withdrawal of the banking authorisation. I mean that, if there have been incidents or crimes within the bank that put bank clearance at risk, state aid cannot be given. That's right. I wonder why public money should be given to a company that up to that time has been - and still is - private - the Monte dei Paschi di Siena is up to now a private bank - with the risk that its banking license will be removed. Two o'clock, either we're crazy or we're trying to throw money away. We, then, try to link constitutional principles to the BRRD directive, because with this measure we are putting the Italian State at risk with regard to guarantee cover, which we do not know how much it will cost us. In fact, the technical report refers to the coverage of 112 billion bonds due in 2017 that, if the system were to go into default - even if it didn't want to - could cost us 770 million. Moreover, I would also like to understand on what basis the calculation of risk is made: if capital and interest are to be guaranteed on new emissions up to 112 billion, and everything collapses, we spend 770 million; then someone must explain how this mathematical calculation is carried out, because we have not been told in the Commission. Moreover, the Italian State is also put at risk by a possible recourse under Article 3 of the Constitution - according to which all Italian citizens must be treated in the same way - as savers of the four banks are treated in a certain way - and we within Decree-Law No. 183 of 2015 have tried to put them on the same level - while those of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena are treated in a different way, not to mention those who will come. In order to prevent the decree-law in question, which aims to restore confidence in the banking system and the Italian system in order to attract investments, actually risking the Italian State having to pay out the unpaid money, to come into conflict with the European Union and to remove further confidence in the country, I ask that the preliminary question QP2 be approved and not proceed with the examination of this measure. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u22	I would like to inform you that a further question has been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Tremonti to intervene to illustrate it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u23	Mr President, senators... (Brussio). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator. I'm asking for a little silence. This is not a square where you get together to talk: either you stay out or you stay in. Please, Senator Tremonti. TREMONTI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Thank you. I have no hope of changing the majority's voting direction and, as a result, I am speaking out of respect for the House and for those who listen to us and, above all, to future memory. Speaking to future memory is an exercise that has already worked on reforms, such as - for example - in the case of savings legislation. I have tabled an amendment which has not been accepted because it is not in line with the oracular verdicts of the European Central Bank, a maneuverer of inscrutable algorithms. I note that the European Central Bank is weak with the strong - as it has just been with some bonds placed mainly outside Italy - and strong with the weak, as is this Government. The government could have adopted a measure based on the Constitution and defended by the Constitution, and instead it chose - this is the reason for my intervention - to present a ganghered and unconstitutional decree. It is ganghered because there are three rules - Article 81, first paragraph, of the Constitution, the law implementing the principle of balanced budget, No 243 of 2012, and this provision - that all say different things. The measure before us, based on a report presented here in Parliament, has logically suicidal features: the rule speaks of a serious risk to the system and the government has come to tell us that the system does not run any risk, but intervenes the same. The fact that, with the system under control, there is a rule that can be applied only because the situation is out of control, I believe it is one of the elements that will make the non-constitutionality of this decree emerge with respect not to the beneficiaries, but to the victims of discrimination. The measure is unconstitutional for three reasons [[Brusio.]] I don't care. I'm gonna go tell them on TV anyway.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u24	I apologize, but I must interrupt you again, Senator Tremonti, because I cannot hear what you say myself. I ask an assistant to raise the level of his microphone.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u25	TREMONTI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). The measure is not only ganghered, because it does not coincide with the normative bases, and in the text of the report that was presented to us to authorize the decree there was a suicide argument (you can intervene when the situation is out of control and the government told us that the situation is under control, but it intervenes the same). But it is also unconstitutional, because it violates Article 47 on the protection of savings, which in the Constitution is an objective and non-discriminatory or segmentable good, for which some are subordinate and others less subordinate than others; it violates the principle of equality for this same reason; it violates the principle of equity because all the provision on the bail in is retroactive and - like all the ablative measures - is unconstitutional in these terms. The Government could have used - as I said earlier - what is contained in our Constitution, in which the principle of counter-limits is gradually developing: European rules of origin are applied in Italy only if they are in line with the fundamental principles of our Charter. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This is exactly what is written in the subversive Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Applause from Senator Lezzi),]] where the fundamental point is only sovereignty and democracy, and the secondary point to be co-ordinated with the first is that of European legislation. On this, however, I will present an attempt to amend our Constitution. Here I have only to observe a fact: there is a ruling class (I don't know if "class" but certainly "non-executive") that leads us safely into the storm and into the storm, without Noticing. And maybe you don't realize what's going on. It does not comfort us what was reported to us yesterday and I am talking about the ruling class in general. The Bank of Italy is working on a report on hydrogeological and climate disruption. Now I do not want to be a denier - even if it is enough to look at Greenland now and refer to its name to understand that climate change has always been there - but it would have been really more serious if the Bank of Italy, instead of dealing with the hydrogeological disaster, had dealt with the bank failures. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI), LN-Aut, CoR and Senator Malan]] Moreover, incidentally, I did not find the incipit of our rapporteur acceptable, when he said that this is how the great building of the Italian banking reform is built, even with this passage. It should pay attention to the land on which the large legislative building is built. [[Applause from Senator Candiani]] The press yesterday and today reports data that are objectively picturesque. Important representatives of the government have just told us that the spread is rude: in fact it is so rude that it has gone up even today. We have been told that deflation is not good for debt, but they are increasing debt and, among other things, this measure represents an increase in debt, even if it is not calculated using Eurostat criteria. I found the call really unworthy of the reality of our country, which took place at the end of a long series - first saw all the big ones, then Poland, Ireland and then Sweden - made to our Head of Government on Saturday evening - as it turns out - at 22.15. The Head of Government is a serious person and, therefore, he was seriously at the office taking that phone call, but this is not dignified for a country. Among other things, on the G7 there are two logics: that of the tour operator and that of the leadership agenda. As reported in the press, the invitation to Taormina was essentially a few minutes away from tour operator, and this is very important. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] I do not see leadership, except - according to rumors that were filtering yesterday - because the government's agenda for the G7 would be mainly focused on sustainable development. Someone should explain to Mr. Government that development would be enough for us. [[Applause from the LAGs (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) and LN-Aut.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u26	Since no one intends to speak in the debate, I put to the vote the question referred for a preliminary ruling, with several reasons, by Senator Stefani and other Senators (QP1), Senator Bottici and other Senators (QP2) and Senator Tremonti. It's not approved. CIOFFI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u27	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Scilipoti Isgro'. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u28	Mr President, since I have time problems, I would ask you to be able to attach my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u29	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u30	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have a few minutes in which I would like to reflect on what has been said in this House by the President of the Commission, and in particular on public support for Italian banks and very low interest rates. From what I understand, the President referred to banks that have public support at a time of difficulty - as it would be appropriate to have - and to the interest rates they apply, which are very low. Mr President of the Commission and representatives of the Government, I understand that this is an issue that you all know well, and that therefore there is little interest in listening because, knowing it well, it can also be explained outside. However, I cannot understand why no one raises a very delicate problem that was born in 1992 with the Carli-Amato Government. I am referring to what has been called, Mr President of the Commission, representatives of the Government, President of the Senate, in an incorrect way, "privatisation of the Bank of Italy." What happened with the privatisation of the Bank of Italy in 1992? The public banks that you, President Marino, say have applied very low interest rates and to which we must give support, since 1992 are nothing more than owners of the Bank of Italy. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, it is difficult to speak and, therefore, I would ask you to help me by calling my colleagues back, not to keep quiet, but at least to speak with a lower voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u31	I call on those who need to speak to sit outside the Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u32	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). I was saying that in 1992 the Bank of Italy was privatised. What happens with this privatisation? I address the senators who know this very well, but also those who listen outside. We have lost the monetary sovereignty and the difference between the real power of the currency and the commercial one is no longer the Italian people, the Bank of Italy, but the bankers; those bankers who yesterday found themselves in difficulty, who today are in difficulty, but - by chance - have our savings in their pockets for twenty-six years. It is, on average, 138 billion euros a year that, multiplied for twenty-six years - if I am not mistaken, from 1992 to 2017-2018 spend twenty-six years - are equal to twice the deficit of the Italy Country. As a Senator of the Republic, not very competent in the matter of bank criticalities, consumeristic activities, problems concerning banks, financial activities, I ask how a country can endorse the fact that a group of bankers becomes owner of the Bank of Italy, robbing the Italian people, and Parliament, both the Senate and the House, do not care at all. We discuss many other things, but we do not talk about the reasons why the Bank of Italy writes to the liabilities 138 billion euros a year, when instead it should write them to the assets. What does this mean? It is as if that money had come out of the pockets of the Italians, when instead it should be written as positive, that is, active, in the pockets of the Italians. It's a continuous scam. Mr President, I am sorry then that my time is limited but others will speak after me and I hope that some of my colleagues will be able to clarify this situation better. This happened in 1992, it is an anomaly and if we do not solve it we will hardly be able to come out of the crisis. Synthetically, since I also want to make proposals, I would add that the Government should commit itself to returning the Bank of Italy, to activate a system that puts in place the separation between commercial banks and business banks (if a person wants to invest and win goes well but if he loses, he loses only those who have invested and cannot ask for the socialization of the debt) and immediately create a parallel currency to give some oxygen to the country Italy and to some countries of the Mediterranean area to get out of it. Thank you, Mr President, for the time you have given me. I hope that this House can be guided by wisdom. Someone should remember Luke and in a particular way the character of Zacchaeus within our beautiful Gospel that should be our reference point not only for today, but also for the future. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u34	Mr President, the fact that it is not only what the Government does, but also what the Government would have wanted to do, but that we have managed to foil, certainly cannot escape attention. You are a person of legal experience and you know very well what Article 56 of the Criminal Code is: not only the crime is punished, but also the attempted crime. President Marino has a nice nerve to come and tell us that now we can finally talk about this measure without the provocations that derive from the insertion of an article containing a paragraph relating to the guarantee to be issued to the Italian Federation golf for the Ryder Cup. But - damn it - when you presided over the Commission and could reject that amendment as improbable, where was it? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Why did you not oppose the Commission at that time? Because, as our colleague Mr Tosato (who was present) says, in the Commission there was a muteness, let's say a political resignation, compared to a will that was clearly of government emanation, with Senator Turano who had tabled the amendment, but that not being then present in the Commission his amending proposal was taken over by another senator and was carried forward. Despite the grievances of the PD minority, the amendment went on like a train, although it was evident also in the eyes of a blind man who concerned a subject totally foreign to what the Senate approved - I remind myself - on 21 December last year, a few weeks ago. In fact, with these three pages, which can be described as a summary of the summary of the summary, the government was given a mandate by Parliament to use 20 billion new debt to provide a guarantee and to cover the difficulties of the banking system. Why, then, does the guarantee for the Ryder Cup fit into this provision? I also say this to those who represent the Italian Golf Federation: these people, in fact, also create a damage to those who practice golf in a competitive and sporty correct way, because they compete a sports competition with a country that has a banking system that is a colabrodo, at the moment when there are earthquakes abandoned to themselves and entrepreneurs, artisans and traders that if they have to access bank credit they have to pass the penalties of hell, even if they manage to have a credit from the banks in order to continue their activity. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] So you have a double responsibility. The choice of the President of the Senate not to accept that amendment that you voted in the Commission does not take you away from your political responsibility because you tried. You tried it already in October with the budget law and you tried it arrogantly this time. I would like to see Mr Lotti here absent from the Chamber, who used to act as Undersecretary on behalf of Renzi. Now he's got a Minister's chair, so he can deal with it directly. Why don't you come over here and explain to us the rationality of that amendment? Mr President, this is a very far-reaching measure. We would have expected - and I say this to the President of the Marino Commission - that the issue of banking separation would be addressed seriously. [[Applause from Senator Arrigoni]] They are legislation that lies in the Commission's bill which, at the level of testimony, is signed a little by all the representatives of the Groups. But those who really believe in it bring into question and vote on the legal measures that would seriously protect savers from speculation. However, the Commission does not bring to our examination the draft law on banking separation; it is clear that there is a political will not to go in that direction. It is so evident that a few years ago the President of the Council of Ministers Matteo Renzi acted at night to modify the purposes and the statutes of the Cassa depositi e loani, making possible speculative investments by an institution that, even before the advent of the Republic, had always guaranteed and protected savings, starting from the postal one and from the investments of the public administration. Today we are with a banking system on the loose, as has already been said and correctly. The government, when it acted, did it to pursue personal interests. We do not understand why the advertising of the list of those who took advantage of the Monte dei Paschi credit by creating billions of holes and debts is denied. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The responsibility is once again yours. The newspapers have reminded you of this these days and we remember it in this House. Why do you deny citizens that you know the beneficiaries of those non-refundable credits? Why are they registered with PD? Why are those who have issued those credits, i.e. the directors of the banks, members and managers of the PD? How big were those tables that Renzi used to seat PD funders by charging 10,000 euros a table to finance PD? [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti]] Among those seated at those tables, how many were on the list that you don't want to get out and that took the money of the savers of the Mount of the Paschi of Siena and didn't return them? Where is the government's seriousness? President Grasso, we are pleased that you have accepted and listened to our complaint by removing that infamous amendment. He had no reason to be in this bill. But there is no reason to be there for the political opportunity of the moment we are living, which is of grave seriousness. When the government calls on the European Union for flexibility, it looks at the seriousness of the measures taken in our country. If the measures are to restructure the debt or to give tips, they are not seriously considered and, then, the letters of reminder arrive to return. This isn't happening. This is not the measure we would have liked to see; this is not the way to approach this measure. We will see in the amending session, if there is a chance, what the government will do to make that list public. If we do not proceed in this direction, we will once again denounce and firmly oppose this way of making the government, which hides friends of friends behind a fanciful privacy that, for those who cheat, does not have to exist. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u35	Senator Gibiino is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u36	Mr President, first of all I would like to ask the Presidency for permission to attach the written text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u37	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u38	GIBIINO (FI-PdL XVII). Thank you. I will use these few minutes to point out some aspects and focus on a specific point. Banks have started an activity that conflicts, collides, with a large part of the rules governing the activity of real estate brokerage. On the basis of Law No 39 of 1989, it is difficult to believe that credit institutions can be authorized to carry out this activity. But there is more. In legislative decree n. 141 of 2010 the real estate agent is prevented, in any way, from facilitating those who are buying a property, causing it to purchase, highlighting the possibility of accessing mortgage loans also through the relationships that a real estate agent can have with the bank. Conversely, with what is happening, i.e. with the banks (particularly some) that are opening up real estate agencies or participating in companies that do this type of activity, the opposite is true: it is the banks themselves that, in re ipsa, manage to manage relationships directly with the currentist proposing the property. The above-mentioned law was designed to avoid over-indebtedness, to prevent the citizen from being pushed, encouraged to buy the property and, perhaps, not actually having the redditual capacity to respond, in the months and years that followed, to the payment of the installments. But there is another problem: in the civil code, in Article 1754, it is precisely the need for the real estate agent to have a third party relationship with the parties. Certainly the banks do not have it, insofar as the subject with whom they have relations in the sale of the property is the same currentist of the bank. It is evident, therefore, a relationship of dependence of the currentist-consumer. It has not been long since, in transposing the European mortgage directive, we have actually introduced the pact. Well, in the summa of what I said, we are with a bank that has the possibility to become a real estate agent, to overcome the third-party and the relationship between the accountant and the entity that buys the property (and therefore becomes a consumer) and has the possibility to push towards the conclusion of a marching pact, which allows the bank itself to be able to acquire the property and sell it directly. This could lead to a very dangerous short circuit, not only for the citizen who sees the house sold directly by the bank, but above all for the placing on the national market of properties at a lower price than the market, in order to facilitate the bank that must sell, thus causing damage to the overall market with a reduction in the real estate value of all the real estate made in Italy. This amendment was tabled with an amendment because within a measure such as the one under consideration, where important economic resources and state aid are directed to save banks, we could find ourselves using these sums for the benefit of banks that participate in companies that act in real estate intermediation in a condition of unfair competition against those who, as private entrepreneur and professional, carry out the activity of real estate agent. For this reason I ask - and we have spoken with the Government and with the Undersecretary Baretta - that there be special attention from the Government in setting up at the Ministry of Economy and Finance a table of comparison, precisely to check how to regulate the entry of banks in the field of real estate intermediation. This table should see the participation of the Bank of Italy, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Competition and Market Authority and, of course, all the most representative actors of the real estate market chain. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Guerra is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u39	Mr President, the debate on this important measure has unfortunately been concentrated, as we have also seen from this morning's debate, on improper and questionable aspects, such as the financing of the Ryder Cup (to which I thank the President of the Senate for the correct choice), or on secondary aspects, in my opinion, such as the famous list of debtors. The Commission has encountered a difficulty precisely in defining this list, because of course there is a risk of dealing with a subject, that of the concession made lightly - if not with bad management - of credits to entities that do not deserve them, mixing it with the granting of credits on the basis of a correct assessment of the investor's credit quality, which, then, has been faced with an economic crisis that has made it insolvent. I, on the other hand, would like to focus my speech on something considered technical, but which has been at the heart of a debate within the Commission, an interaction which I consider very positive between the Government and Parliament and which concerns a crucial aspect of the measure. I am referring, basically, to the way in which Chapter II regulates the public intervention to strengthen the assets of Italian banks that present the need under certain conditions (the first of all, of course, is Monte dei Paschi di Siena), through the subscription of acquisition of their shares by the State. This recapitalisation can only take place in compliance with European law after the application of burden sharing measures, i.e. measures governing the participation in the bank's recovery burden by shareholders and subordinated creditors. This theme has intertwined with the right one of the desire to avoid the involvement in the burden sharing of subordinated creditors that may have been the subject of mis-selling, i.e. the presumption that the sale of the subordinated obligation has occurred in lack of information about the riskiness of the same or in violation of the investor's profile which, under the Mifid Directive, prevents offering complex products to savers who do not have the necessary skills to assess the risk. In the original version, the decree dealt with the two themes, with a single instrument or, better, with a single method of valorization of subordinate titles, between them very different: that of burden sharing and that of mis-selling. This led, on the one hand, to the risk of insufficient definition of the burden for the purposes of European legislation. On the other hand, there was a risk of overcompensation of savers who might have been swindled against the costs incurred by them. In the Commission's version, the two measures have been properly separated. The first definition is the burden sharing, to which shareholders are called through a more accurate definition of the criteria that must guide the valorization of the old shares in circulation and through the definition of the effects of the dilution of the capital, with the fixing of a higher discount coefficient than previously indicated. The value of subordinated securities to be converted is therefore defined. In the case of Monte dei Paschi di Siena it is a rather generous assessment, but it finds a compensation in terms of burden sharing through the definition of a purchase price by the Treasury with a rather significant discount (25 percent) initially not expected. This procedure, which is now more transparent and more understandable, is accompanied by a revision of the mis-selling procedure. That is, it is recognized automatically, in case the bank runs the risk of legal redress. Since, however, mis-selling consists in having sold a risky security to a person who could not correctly assess the risk he was taking, the refund consists, correctly, in a full refund of the price incurred to improperly purchase the security. Refreshment that happens with the assignment of ordinary obligation to non-professional and non-institutional investors, who, by definition, cannot be considered unprepared with respect to this type of subscription. Therefore, the price of the improper purchase of the security is recognised, without recognising, as was likely to be done previously, an undue advantage to those who have signed bonds at lower prices than those recognized for the other procedure, that of burden sharing. Of course, this is a technical issue, but so crucial in the choice I made that I liked to stress that and, once again, to point out that this was an example of fruitful interaction between Parliament and the Government and an example of how we should work on these issues. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u41	Mr President, this decree-law marks a sharp reversal of the trend towards privatisation without whether or not it has marked the last 20 years. The banker state returns to the ashes of market failures and some private or privatised banks. Some of my colleagues - just now my colleague, Mrs Guerra, and before that my colleague, Mr Tremonti - have raised important issues and have put some of the problems of this decree into question. I agree, but I do not insist on this, because the point I would like to develop is the role of the banker state. To reason on this element, we cannot but be silent about the delay with which the State takes hold, through the action of the Government, the main banking crises opened in this country; it is a delay that indicates an underestimation of the gravity of the problem. You see, supporting banks in serious difficulty at the moment serves to protect the savings contained in it and to avoid worse trouble. But the fact that we have arrived so late and the fact that previously solutions have been supported, even before wrong, unrealizable, such as that of the market recapitalisation of Monte dei Paschi di Siena or the same solution of the Fund Atlas for the Banca Popolare di Vicenza-Veneto Bank or even the resolution procedure as has been implemented for the four regional banks (Bank Etruria and the others), denounces a difficulty to understand what is useful to do. I will not be following up on the reasons for this inability; I just have to stress it and draw attention to the crucial point where in Europe and in Italy this type of rescue is necessary: the crucial point is that banking Italy is put on the cross for the load of deteriorated loans, and in particular for non-performing loans, which puts in difficulty the holding of these banks. The singular thing on which the previous Government, the Ministry of Economy and the Italian monetary authorities have not sufficiently kept is the obligation that is made to quickly release bank balance sheets from these non-performing loans, giving them to third parties at vile prices. There are data that the Bank of Italy itself has provided that testify how the balance sheet value of this important asset class, which is worth between 70 and 80 billion at system level net of the risk funds provided so far, has been recovered so far for about the same value, which is equal to 40-45 percent of the facial value. It is singular how, since the obligation to transfer this asset to third parties, their value has basically halved. One wonders why these activities must be given to third parties; who has established them. The regulator is artificially creating a market in favour of some Italian and international investors, who have done the new business with regard to the recovery of outstanding claims, to the detriment of the banking system. I mean that if a bank has 100 of suffering and is asked to give in immediately, in a few months, this activity, it must sell it to 50, and the loss of 50 that in this way is realized must be covered with an increase of capital, because in this way - it is said - the budget is cleaner. You could calmly do the same increase in capital, devalue this activity at the same level, but keep control of it and then realize it over time, as has already been done in the past, bringing home the value that today is given to private equity funds and related, which take hold of the management of this game. According to the accounts of the Bank of Italy, the ability of banks to recover these claims is faster and higher than those of these specialised companies. Then, at two o'clock: either the Bank of Italy is wrong or we have a problem. The Bank of Italy itself in recent days has invited the banks to consider the opportunity to recover these classes of assets in house. You know that the operation supported by the Government for the Mount of the Paschi of Siena, which forms the crucial, central object of this decree-law, provided for the transfer to third parties, to a vehicle built by JP Morgan, to bring home this value, but for the vehicle, not for the bank, which would then have to make the capital increase to heal the wound. Fortunately, the operation did not go into port; but why do I call you today? Because in the course of the hearings that preceded the discussion of the provision and the amending phase in the Commission, we have auditioned both the Minister of Economy - who will become the main shareholder of the Monte dei Paschi and the other banks that unfortunately had to need this rescue intervention - and the same managing director of the Monte dei Paschi, who had supported, in agreement with the previous Government, that plan that proved impossible, as, on the other hand, the people with some experience of that world said from the beginning. Well, they still do not take a position on this crucial point, because the taxpayers' money that is now being committed to avoiding worse trouble - and I do agree that this measure is being approved - must be used well. The shareholder state is called upon to prove that it can choose capable and successful managers. You see, ladies and gentlemen, I am not excited that those who are called to the bedside of Monte dei Paschi should be paid for at least EUR 240,000 as a ceiling, or double or triple. That is not the point when we are talking about billions of euros being put on the plate. The important thing is that they are capable: that the doctor called to the bedside of the patient is able to heal him and not that he is a doctor who, since we pay him even little, accompanies him to the grave. That's not the point. The point is that the shareholder, the Ministry of Economy, Palazzo Chigi, must give an address, must know how to choose in this matter. I find it disturbing that the choice is abandoned: if it ever was, I believe that there is time for an active repentance, compared to the nothing we heard on this point during the hearings. We cannot leave the choice in the hands of subjects who were involved with the previous strategy. I say this not because this has specific relevance to an article or to another of the decree-law under consideration, but because it remains in future memory that the crucial point is not only the measure under consideration, but the execution of the decree itself, on which the responsibility passes from the Parliament, which today approves it, to the Government, which in accordance with its commitments and its institutional characteristics as Executive, must give effect to the legislation under consideration having for the horizon the interest of the banking company, called to be healed and then brought back to the market, and that of the savers, who entrusted to that company its denari. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Liuzzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vacciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u43	Mr President, I shall confine myself to a few general considerations: my previous speakers have introduced some very important technical issues, but I believe that these issues are a little far from what should be the basic questions related to the measure under consideration and that in my view they have not been answered. The initial question I would like to ask is very simple: in the event of a banking crisis or a bank's difficulty, at the end of the accounts, who pays? It seems a trivial question, but in these months and years of work in the Commission we have noticed the existence of different answers, some formal and others related to the measures we have been facing. The formal responses were those relating to the approval of some legislative decrees, which basically led to the transposition of European legislation, which introduced terms today very feared, such as burden sharing and bail in. These measures therefore offer a response of this kind: in the event of a banking crisis or bank difficulties, at the end of the accounts, it is called upon to pay those who have a relationship with the banks themselves. 11:17 a.m. (Follow VACCIANO). It starts with the shareholder, who should be the most aware of the type of products that are issued, up to the currentists with savings of more than 100,000 euros. However, it has been noted that this type of response concerns people and that our banking system was not prepared for them. In this way we have faced the events related to the famous four banks, in which the State was forced to intervene and to repay, in some way and in part, subordinated bondholders, who theoretically, according to the regulations underlying the marketing of financial products, should be aware of the products they have subscribed and the fact that, in the event of the bank's crisis, they run the risk of losing something. Today this is even more true, after the enactment of the regulations concerning the bail in and, however, even in the past in case of bankruptcy such subjects were called to some extent to pay: instead this was not the case. We have therefore found other types of answers and it has been said that, in some way, crises and moments of difficulty are paid by the State. However, this is not Europe's position and it was not what the European Banking Union seemed to have to lead to. Instead, in the reality of things, we have come to this, that is, to allocate EUR 20 billion to provide liquidity to banks, which would otherwise have been in difficulty both to go to the market and to guarantee their customers and we have come to the fact that the State in several cases intervenes and becomes shareholder, sometimes of majority, of the banks: here we continue to talk about the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, but in the Commission it has become clear that there are other banks, that are already taking advantage of the measures provided for in the decree-law in question: perhaps they are less known and less important, but they are already doing so. It is therefore a sort of masked nationalization. The question to which we answer badly is: in the end who pays? No one has yet had the courage to say whether it should be the people who have decided on Europe, i.e. those who have relations with the banks, and therefore a small group of people, or the whole community, through general taxation and public debt. This is the question to which we must give a definitive answer that is not as ambiguous as that given in recent years. In fact, both solutions are not painless and cause votes to be lost, but - I repeat - in the end a decision has to be made. Another problem is Article 19 of the measure, especially in its first version. On the occasion of the events related to the notes four banks (I think of the difficulties of the People's Bank of Etruria and the Savings Bank of Ferrara), it was said that the State intervened to repay subordinated bondholders because banks and ugly and bad bankers had sold the products of which they were unable to understand the risk to poor people. It was good for them, good for them. Unfortunately, today this fairytale story is somewhat contrasted by article 19 of the provision, which disposes in different ways. Basically, the reasoning is as follows: since we know that there are problems and we do not want others, in order to avoid the intervention of the judiciary (it is clear that so many people still have products in hand that they are not able to understand), we all refund. Then, fortunately, it was understood that in this way the speculators would also be reimbursed, because the fact of being a retail buyer does not shelter us, because even those who are retail know how to make good speculation. We have therefore intervened in an amendment to remedy this situation. Nevertheless, there is the problem of a banking system which, despite the beautiful European regulations (I am thinking of the Mifid directive and the imminent arrival of Mifid 2), has sold and continues to sell to people unable to understand products that, otherwise, they would never want to have in their hands. I have heard of trust in the banking system and this, in my opinion, is something that ends up compromising it. We have tried the long way and included in this measure a very interesting article that paves the way for financial training. Gentlemen, financial training - that should be clear to all - is something that gives results in the medium and long term, in the sense that, if all goes well, in ten or fifteen years we will have people who are able to understand what a subordinate obligation is. The problem is that we do not have these people today and we will not have them for who knows how many years yet if we do not have a financial information intervention. When I say information I speak of that information that the teachers of elementary school give to children, because this is the level of many of our subordinate bonding friends who have products of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena today and, tomorrow - perhaps - of Unicredit or Banca Intesa Sanpaolo. These people absolutely don't know what these products are. We cannot continue to think of solving any problem with financial training without taking immediate action on information, or - more risk - with an emergency financial information campaign. All those who have subordinate products in hand must be put in a position to say: this is what you have in your hand and, if anything happens - anything - with the new European regulations you risk money in your pocket. [[Applause from Senator Airola]] Unfortunately, this is not the case and there is strong resistance at European level to introducing such mechanisms. During the hearings of the various vigilantes, the representatives of Consob and the Bank of Italy told us that they know very well, but that they are bound. We must somehow overcome this constraint, because otherwise in six months' time, or another year, we find ourselves making the same speech. I repeat that, in my opinion, the points referred to are not technical, but of common sense and should enter into the common sense of this Assembly and of the Government. I haven't been particularly passionate about list themes. More than the lists of those who took the money, I would be interested in having lists of those who gave them, because no one went to the bank with the ski mask to take that money. I am referring to those who avoided controlling the exposure of the risk not only when the money was given, but also when the financial situation of the subjects was worsening. I think someone had not one, but both eyes blindfolded. I have been passionate about the issue of remuneration and I think that the solution identified is a little too bland: I understand very well that if you want a good manager you have to pay him well, but let's remember that we are currently paying him with the money of a shareholder who is called State. As I said, I will not dwell on the bad page that was written in the Commission about the well-known amendment on the Ryder Cup, which I believe comments on its own, partly because what I had to say to my colleagues in the Commission. I therefore conclude this speech as I began my first speech in the Commission, asking the Government what the terms of the European Commission's authorisation for the Commission's interventions are. I did not have these terms; I was promised that a reminder would be made, but we still do not know what they are, so if a document that has been kept hidden so far appeared in the course of the debate, it would be appropriate to have it. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u44	He's enlisted to speak Senator Airola. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u45	Madam President, it is difficult to explain to Italians why today we are forced to make 20 billion new debt to save the banks (333 euros per head for every Italian) and why we do not do the same for a citizenship income, for social emergencies, disasters, for work or welfare. Is it difficult because the answer to the question could be debited also for other and not only to save the banks?It is "yes," it could be done. Today in this House, therefore, a vile injustice is being consumed - and this is good to remember throughout this debate - as well as blackmail: if banks are not saved, save savers and thousands of families. In fact, it can happen to make wrong investments, to suffer international financing crises, even to fail, but not with the usual ignoble ways in our country. In Italy, ladies and gentlemen, there is a criminal fabric that gives money to those who sweat them and to honest savers, destroying the lives of millions of families. Bankers and financiers, insolvent entrepreneurs and debtors, controllers and subsidiaries (Consob and Bankitalia in the first place), politicians and politicians' friends are responsible for the disaster of the Italian banking system and are directly linked to parties sitting in this House and to representatives of this Government. [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]] We are faced with a staggering budget: 2 million savers destroyed, 380,000 families ruined only in the last 12 months, and this when Minister Padoan, some time ago, told the press that there would be no crisis because the banking system was solid and Renzi invited to invest in MPS. We've seen how solid it is! But there was the election campaign for the referendum and the truth had to be hidden and this is also very serious: you delayed the solution to the problem by political opportunism, causing even more damage! [[Applause from Senator Bulgarelli.]] Today we are talking about the collapse of MPS and more. You know, MPS didn't always go bad, in fact until 1998 it was in excellent health and in 2000 it closed with a net profit of 341.9 billion lire, but politics was going to change everything, for the worst of course. After buying the Mantua Agricultural Bank in 1998, MPS launched 1.2 billion of money on Banca del Salento: it was the first capital sin, as Consort even recognizes in a recent interview with Libero, in which he stated that he considered it a very high figure at the time, under the chairmanship of Professor Fabrizi and engineer De Bustis, who came from the Banca del Salento (see case). We start to write down the names, like this De Bustis, because they are always those and we find them everywhere in the events of crack, failures and bank looting: they always do damage, as managing directors or as members of boards of directors, between banks and foundations, consultants for large financial banks, then maybe Ministers or controllers, in a crappy perpetual conflict of interest. No control: No one will ever ask De Bustis to account for that operation and all the others that he carried on to cover the MPS hole. Returning to the Bank of Salento, the problem was not only the excessive price, because inside that bank there was a poisoned gift: I refer to My Way and 4 You products, presented as accumulation plans, while they were mortgages that lost 2 billion euros to 170,000 savers and that in 2006 cost the bank 500 million for dubious matches and legal litigation. I make an inscription: Consob inflicted on MPS the highest fine ever made, but, by chance, the Ministry did not issue the decree in time. It was a formal vice, as if to say: when the controller finally does his duty, politics thinks about it to avoid sanctions! [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Then, to cover the holes, other holes are made: in 2003 with Deutsche Bank derivatives made by Mussari for MPS, with De Bustis, who then becomes the manager of Deustche Bank, who goes from there to there again and makes other scam products like Santorini to cover the hole of the overpaid acquisition of Antonveneta (10.3 billion) in 2008. Speaking of names, then he was deputy director of Monte dei Paschi di Siena the current CEO of MPS, Morelli, the one decided by JPMorgan and imposed on Renzi and Padoan. Where were Dragons and Tarantula then? Where were the controllers of Banca d'Italia? And where are they today? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mistakes on errors accumulated by bankers whose democrats (you) have constantly trusted, as evidenced by the presence, currently, of De Bustis at the top of the Banca Popolare of Bari, where for a long time there are the small members who ask to liquidate the shares and who remain unheard waiting to know their destiny. This is the true story of MPS, colleagues, collusive controllers, an incompetent and criminal policy that must no longer harm citizens. [[Applause from Senator Paglini]] The names of the debtors guilty of these cracks will not tell you, you are not going to do so, you have put nothing effective to that end in this decree-law. So much, in the end, however the names are known, and are always - let's face it - the same, which make up a plot of collusion between politics and finance, Freemasonry, great entrepreneurs, real estate owners, red cooperatives and countless public participants in Tuscany, are friends of the center-right and of the center-left, do business with them, between them and for them: they are the Don Verzè (friends of Berlusconi), are the De Benedetti friends of the PD (with 600 million outstanding debt of Sorgenia), are Gianni Punzo (socio of Luca Cordero di Montezemolo and Della Valle), are the Mezzaro, the Caltagirone, Marcegaglia, Zunino, the construction cooperatives and the inevitable Ligresti, which we remember as well as for the real estate disaster of Casal Boccone, for the merger of Unipol-Fonsai and the case of the left Cancelleri, who here came to tell us that it was set up in the disposition of the family. They also ruined hundreds of thousands of small savers and did so because someone allowed them. I'm saving you the list of the public participants involved in Tuscany, moreover we are in the country where the father of Minister Boschi consults for the management of Bank Etruria with a character like Flavio Carboni: scandal Sindona, P2, P3, P4, Freemasonry, diverted services, we have something else to add? Maybe Bisignani, he's always there. [[Applause from Senators Bulgarelli and Fattori]] If the citizens knew who was among you, with you, behind you, dear colleagues, if the citizens knew the truth! Unfortunately, however, they ignore it, because financial information has disappeared from the media, dear journalists, and especially from RAI. But then, whose media are in Italy? Whose newspapers are most of them? And whose RAI is it, whose Mediaset is it? I'll tell you again? The RAI controls the government, the newspapers are from Caltagirone, De Benedetti, the Agnelli family, Berlusconi. I'm not the one who's repetitive. You're the one who's involved everywhere. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There are good economic and financial journalists, ready to inform the citizens and warn them of the scams, the scams that are done to their detriment when they go to the bank to invest the savings of a lifetime. Unfortunately, these journalists do not have an easy life in Italy, I personally thank a very good one, which helped me tell this MPS story. Controllers are worse than controlled: Bankitalia and Consob have not monitored, but if at least there were some good information maybe things would be very different. Instead, 108 billion savings have been burned in the last 20 years to two million Italian citizens, including Argentine bonds, Parmalat, Cirio, Lehman Brothers, SAI Fondiaria, four popular banks, other popular banks and so on. The 5 Star Movement would make journalists more of a prohibition list! Because, for example, today in the newspapers, instead of these headlines, there should be the shame of the amendment that was not accepted in this House today, but that was approved in the Commission yesterday. I'm talking about the 97 million gift to your friends from the golf club, who you wanted to include in this decree saves banks: the golf of Letta, Frattini and Evelina Christillin. Even if it has not passed, it will remain the shame of this ignoble gesture. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So much for those who don't arrive at the end of the month and those who don't even have a roof on their heads anymore! Rumor has it, Government, that you put your trust. I have never spoken before in this House: no confidence in this Government and no confidence in this banking system, which is colliding with you others! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Galimberti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u47	Madam President, fellow senators, government representatives, yet another decree-law on banks, the fourth of the Renzi era, although it bears the signature of Gentiloni. A necessary and urgent decree, both because one must save the oldest banking institution in the world, the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, and with it the entire banking sector, and because one must save the face to the left that has always determined the governance of that institution, entrusting management to party friends rather than managers with qualified experience. There is no doubt that the Renzi and Gentiloni governments have underestimated the scale of the crisis of our banks and the possible domino effect capable of affecting the entire financial system. That is why the measure we are debating here today cannot but be regarded as late. It is late because the situation has been known to everyone for years, yet the former Premier has preferred to give priority to his own interests, issuing measures certainly not urgent such as the reform of cooperative credit and that of the popular banks. The latter, among other things, is still suspended because pending the decision of the Council, which will have to express itself on the constitutionality of the measure: uncertainty that is added to the uncertainty. It is late because for months we have attended the curtain of Renzi and Padoan that reassured the Italians and investors denying the need for intervention on the banking system as solid, with the President of the Council itself inviting to invest in the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, defining it as an excellent deal, and with the Minister of Economy and Finance who gave continuous interviews on the good health of the institute until a few days before the objective feedback of the state of difficulty in which it was concerned. It is late because, in order not to hinder the outcome of the last referendum campaign, the government party has irresponsibly preferred to wait for the outcome of the ballot boxes, thus causing a further loss of several billion deposits for the Mount of the Paschi of Siena. All this has led the bad party-cratic management of the bank to burn tens of billions of capital that will now be paid back with our money. For this reason, Forza Italia has requested the establishment of the bicameral commission of inquiry on the entire credit system. It is in fact essential to clarify and bring transparency, both in order to regain the confidence of Italians in the banks and institutions that should monitor their savings, and in order to punish those responsible for causing such a catastrophe. Forza Italia has also fought to ensure that the Commission reports to Parliament on every public intervention in favour of the banking system: a cowardice sine qua non not set from the outset to grant the public debt necessary for the support of the credit world. Forza Italia had again asked to cancel the remuneration of the directors and the top managers of a bank affected by public intervention, but the Government, once again, with a game down conceded only that the Treasury can trigger a roof to the remuneration of the Board of Directors and the managers of the institute. Our main request was the publication of the names of the first hundred largest debtors because, without doubt, they are the main ones responsible for the present suffering; certainly the credits of small and medium-sized enterprises do not have equal impact, also because the latter, for years, are no longer financed by the system even for small amounts, all this causing serious damage to our economy that sees precisely in small and medium-sized enterprises its engine. A fair request because we cannot forget that those 20 billions granted by this House belong to the Italians and they must be taken into account. Instead, the Government has foreseen that the maximum transparency that can be granted is the publication of their risk profile, since, according to the Undersecretary Baretta, this will allow to understand the real financial situations of debtors and the management of the granting of credits. The truth is quite different, and we all know it, but now whoever is responsible for it prefers to cover it to save himself above all. Another problem that remains unresolved is the unequal treatment between the savers of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, who are guaranteed 100% compensation for their assets, and the savers of the four banks we treated last year, which have so far received 10%. Finally, Mr President, with just one question: if Italy's priority is to save the national credit system in order to safeguard Italian savings, why would the Government want to finance the Ryder Cup Europe for EUR 97 million? Yeah, as the saying goes, the wolf loses his hair, but... [[Applause from Senator Serafini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u48	We greet and welcome the students and teachers of the Istituto comprensivo (Ettore Majorana) of Lanuvio, in the province of Rome, who are today visiting the Senate and attending our works. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alì. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u50	Madam President, as my colleagues have already pointed out, we have a number of concerns about the definition of this measure. A measure that deals with a very delicate matter, that is that of the intervention of the State for the rescue of banks that are not already in bankruptcy condition, but that in any case they face serious criticalities, especially in their patrimonial structure and in the cash availabilities. All this is done through the use of a fund of 20 billion, which has been authorised by Parliament, all of which is borne by the public debt, using a European authorisation procedure, the contours of which are not yet fully defined. Inevitably, this increase in public debt will also have an impact on the European Commission's assessment of the state of health of our public accounts. Why have we been perplexed? Personally, I am very doubtful about the risk assessment that is made with regard to the guarantees issued on the extraordinary issue of bonds by institutions that are at the stage - we can say, using an euphemistic term - of financial difficulties. In fact, the calculation of the risk incidence of these guarantees was made both by the Accounting Office and by the Government, in the technical report, based on the parameters of normal markets, including international ones, and on the risk of a possible default but in a regime of absolute normality. The result, therefore, was a result of 811 million risk out of the 20 billion total allocation for an emission potential, as stated in the same technical report and as confirmed by Minister Padoan during the question time last Thursday, of 112 billion euros. It seems to me that it is absolutely optimistic to estimate that, against this type of emissions, the real risks that the Government runs are limited to 811 million: there is a force in the technical report so that the sum of 20 billion can be allocated almost entirely to recapitalisation interventions and the same recapitalisation interventions have not been perfectly indicated. There is more: this could be done (and this is also one of the issues for which we believe that the Government is always proceeding with something to hide or not to highlight) because the Government, when it came to debate in Parliament and in the same technical report, could well point out the need for immediate recapitalisation, for example, of the Mount of Paschi of Siena, which the European Commission itself had indicated in € 8.8 billion. So much so that the Government, with strange coincidence of times, took charge of the request of the Monte dei Paschi of 23 December, which is the same day of issue of the decree-law, and hesitated the guarantee provided by the decree before it even came out of Parliament with possible, possible modifications. I believe that this practice, as I have pointed out several times in the past, is absolutely irrational to Parliament. It is true that the decree-law is an immediate instrument of application and therefore, in terms of the Constitution, there is no contraindications to the fact that it is being used immediately, but it is also true that, for commitments of this kind, it would have been a measure of confidence in Parliament's prerogatives to wait at least for the passage of the first reading. I say this because, if we wanted to change a term of the guarantee on capital or interest, a guarantee percentage (rather than 30, as required by the norm, 25), if we wanted to make any changes to the same procedural mechanism (instead of five days because the Bank of Italy examined a particular proposal, give three or eight), we could not do so because the Government had already used all the forecasts of the decree, thus anticipating the parliamentary debate. This practice takes me back twenty years: I was here on the occasion when the Banco di Napoli was snatched in the south of Italy with such a procedure, when the Government passed a decree-law and then issued the implementing decrees before the decree itself could be discussed in Parliament, and therefore Parliament was obliged (in the sense that the majority of the time was obliged) to convert it in the same terms as it was presented, with the harmful consequences that that operation had towards the southern credit. Well, I'm led to think that maybe the government wants to do a similar test of strength with the Mount of the Paschi. In fact, what is the Monte dei Paschi going to become? As a reference bank for local policy, he is preparing to become a reference bank for government policy. That's the difference. In fact, we are talking about an Italian rescue. Let us be clear: it is not a rescue, as has been said, like those in the United States of America or Germany, it is an Italian rescue. The United States of America has intervened for some bailouts - they are now returning the sums of the banks declared bankrupt to the savers - applying forms of separation - which we have also asked, but of course without finding acceptance - of the activities of those banks, precisely in those sectors that had determined the so-called bubble and then the collapse. For example, in the United States of America, once the real estate sector could be the subject of the business activity of business banks, now no longer, because then, rightly, the United States Government, intervening, said that it would grant resources if the banks had changed the way they acted. None of this is happening here. Let us not talk about transparency. It had been said, even with the agreement of the Italian Banking Association (ABI), that we would have the opportunity to know the lists of sufferers or, even, at the loss of the last three years, that have determined the pre-fallimentary situation of the Monte dei Paschi, but after the first statements with which it was promised that it would be done, there was instead a net closure of the Government, even in the pseudo-opening of the information. In fact, in the amendment adopted, which provides for the four-monthly report to Parliament, the lists, once again, escape the evidence of the transparency of names and are clearly indicated as lists only of risk compartments. Once again, then we will have the need - I hope it does not happen - to possibly have to activate other systems. We should have set up the Committee of Inquiry. This, too, was linked to the possible adoption of this measure, but this Commission of inquiry has almost completely lost track of itself, except to find them in a preparatory report by the Commission, which, however, as I have been allowed to say here, contains so much evidence of what has happened that, if so much gives me, the Commission of Inquiry is seen by the majority as a means of finally dealing with all the combined failures in the past years. Perhaps the Commission of Inquiry will never be born or, if it is born, will have purposes that are quite different from those for which it was intended. There is a whole series of reasons, therefore, for which we are convinced that there have been fundamental errors are not in the management, but also in the coverage given to that management. There have been errors in the management of the local, regional reference of the Monte dei Paschi and also in the expansion of the sphere of activity of that bank, so wide that it makes it very politicized and at the service of political currents. For these reasons, together with the comments made by my group's colleagues and those that Senator Carraro will certainly make in the next speech, our vote on the measure can only be against.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u51	Before continuing the discussion, we greet and welcome Gian Piero Ventura, technical commissioner of the national football team, who attends our work. We greet him and wish him a lot of good work, to him and to our national team. Welcome to the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u52	She's enlisted to speak Senator Ricchiuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the stability of the credit system is a value. The great crises of the twentieth century and the credit crunch of 2008 in the United States have taught us that maintaining public confidence in the banking system is a primary public function. Moreover, Article 47 of the Constitution itself raises the protection of savings to the fundamental value of our Republic. The decree-law that we are converting is therefore extremely appropriate. Opportuno, yes, but perhaps late and characterized by a sound and a mocking taste. That the Mount of the Paschi of Siena was in bad waters we did not learn it at the end of 2016 but they all knew it at least from the wretched acquisition of the network of the branches of Antonveneta from Banco Santander, operation that has cost the Monte of the Paschi 9 billion euros, against an effective market value of approximately half. From that moment on it was an ordeal that lasted at least nine years. In these years what has been done? Since 2011 was it known that the Monte dei Paschi di Siena had losses of 4 and a half billion euros? Why did we all stand still? If it was to be public intervention, at least it could cost less. But here the ideologies of the right have intervened: the public, the State is bad: the market is for itself, the business captains always remedy everything. I'm glad they were there. I'd like to say. It has been found that in order to conceal the losses they have falsified the budgets, hidden the existence of derivative contracts scalloped and renounced to collect the coupons of the held government bonds. The extreme attempts, last autumn, to find private investors that could recapitalize the Mount were in vain, also because discouraged by the news about the imminent enactment of the decree-law. It must be said that the decree-law at our examination does not only refer to the Monte dei Paschi, but also to other banks, whose capital situation is precarious. Now: it is certainly true that the international situation has not favoured the profitability of credit institutions. The reduced profit margins, due both to the 2008 US subprime crisis and to the enormous liquidity generated in Europe by Draghi's policies (which are also very wise), and to the slowdown in the growth of Asian tigers, have meant that much of the traditional banking profit has collapsed. It is also true, however, that banking suffering is an endemic problem in Italy and not only because of market developments. Unfortunately, we know that credit has often been granted cheerfully. The case of Banca Popolare di Vicenza is emblematic: the credit was denied to small savers, who were asked to prepare strict guarantees, while generously granted to members and friends, as happened with the Florentine Cooperative Credit and in other examples that have filled our chronicles. Here I would like to make an inscription on the publication of the famous names that so many like, but not me. If a company requests a higher amount of custody or financing than its balance sheets would allow and the bank grants it, is the responsibility of the person who grants it or who receives it? It is clear that it is the bank's responsibility, unless there is a lie on the part of the trustee. Welcome then to a Commission of Inquiry into banking crises, which sheds light on this issue. I don't like proscription lists, especially if suggested by those who are involved. This is perhaps not the time for controversy, but to put some firm points, yes; otherwise it will not be the public rescue of the banks for the general purposes of stability of the system, but simply the rescue of the public coffers for private wrongdoing. I do not have time here to discuss the complex issue of precedents, between shareholders and subordinated bondholders in the sacrifice that helps the public to save the banks. I even have some concerns about the rule of the decree-law that allows to repay subordinated bondholders, so-called retails, that is, small savers, to whom those bonds were sold retail in the branch with the promise, however, of substantial coupons, largely already collected over the years. Instead, I focus on the public presence in the banks, since it is with public money that they are raised. I have tabled several amendments: the first, the 5.1, inexplicably rejected in the Commission, was intended to provide for the necessary presence on the board of directors of banks using the state guarantee of a member appointed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. The logic was obvious: if you spend the taxpayer's money in the body that decides the use of those money there must be the presence of a public adviser. 12:00 p.m. (Follow-up). The second amendment was aimed at putting a ceiling on the salaries of the managers of those banks: we do not understand why the money has to be put there by the taxpayer, but the compensation if the managing directors decide it. This amendment was absorbed by a mild formulation of the Government. Then, again, I tabled Amendment 26.0.14, which tightens up the criminal and administrative sanctions for the bank beggar, which I had to turn into an agenda. I hope that the Government will act as soon as possible to tighten the penalties. Finally, I have tabled an amendment aimed at preventing conflicts of interest from independent experts who must attest to the value of the bank's active and passive stakes for the purposes of burden sharing. They must, of course, have no participation in institutions or hold shares that could affect the genuineness of their assessments and their names must be made known for the necessary checks to the currency police. The assessment offered in conflict of interest must, in my view, constitute a crime. My doubts about the fate of these amendments become disconcerted when we come to the amendment on the Ryder Cup, but President Grasso finally made it clear: that amendment was not acceptable. We have said that in all the sauces in the Commission and the right decision has finally been taken. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u54	Senator Di Maggio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u55	Mr President, I have been repeating here for a long time that it would be necessary to try to take a bath of truth, once and for all, and I hoped that the change leading the government could move in this direction. Unfortunately already from the title of the measure that we must vote today - conversion into law of Decree-Law 23 December 2016, n. 237, with urgent provisions for the protection of savings in the credit sector - I find that, once again, we use a falsehood to deny a truth. We take the savers of our country for the umpteenth time, that we now call to contribute to heal the losses of the Italian banking system. A banking system that we have been told for more time as a solid system, on which we can even invest and which, perhaps we see with bitterness, is not standing at all today. I find it difficult to understand, in the various reasonings that everyday life gives us, what is meant by populism. I was attentive to the debate in this House and I also greatly appreciated Senator Airola's very vehement speech. But what is populist about a complaint that seeks to reaffirm the truth? I'll try to tell you two stories. A story that is made up of a virtual world and a history that lies in the real world, just to understand if this Government wants to pay attention, for the first time, to a fundamental fact, without which we cannot make any reform, that is, the assumption of responsibility. Until we succeed in affirming this principle in our country, we will never be able to launch any credible reform. The two stories are as follows. There is a virtual world, made up of finance, where the usual names always move: Caltagirone, Zunino, De Benedetti, Angelini, Marcegaglia, Agnelli, and those who have more (because among other things the names are always those of the ten or fifteen families that manage the economy of this country). What are they doing? They imagine a business, maybe without anything: there is no entrepreneur, there is no company, but there is an idea that is almost always entrusted to these roboating names that are called advisors and that, nine times out of ten, always respond to the "families" of the same families. You do a project, many times with big capital to invest. The chronicle has often been dedicated to this aspect: calls come from the so-called saints in paradise, that is, from those who have the famous possibilities to help (and the chronicle tells us that in this also some diligent prelate has been busy). You do these wonderful businesses, then you realize that the enterprise may not have those requirements to work and the huge black holes in the virtual world come to light. Then there is a real world, made up of Di Maggio, Airola, Rossi and Candiani, which instead takes serious professionals, brings projects to the banking system (and when it brings projects it says: This is the enterprise, this is the management, this is the entrepreneurial idea, but almost always it does not manage to have any kind of credit. The moral of this reasoning is that if we really want to start to clarify, we must start from exactly this fact, because reality is also very raw and mocking. When I refer to the names of the entrepreneurship that I call "virtual," the one that moves capital without moving from the chair, I mean that if we do not make clarity - that is, we do not say who the debtors of the banks - the risk that is run, that is obvious to the public, is that these extraordinary entrepreneurs, who do not know at all what the risk of enterprise, profit in all the state and parastatal activities and we do not understand why they cannot heal the debts for which they are responsible. And then we, moreover, also receive them at the Quirinale. I believe that we need to give a thorough thought to this aspect, and I believe that it is all the more necessary to make a Commission of Inquiry into the Italian banking system, because there are the countless responsibilities of this country's collapse. If we are able to do this, we will have rendered a service to our country; otherwise we will continue with the normal pace, which among other things - the register with bitterness - no longer creates any kind of sensitivity. We must even look at Romania - I repeat, Romania - going down to the streets to see the lowest levels of decency guaranteed, when the levels of decency have been largely exceeded by us. Everything slides on this country, precisely because the political system, as well as controlling the financial system, also controls that of communication. Mr President, I personally do not believe that the measure is a good thing if we do not have in mind that the recovery comes from the assumption of responsibility. We should have the courage to do exactly that. We should have the courage, to do this, also to go and ask what the controllers do, because ours is a strange country: we control everything and then happen everything, and you don't understand how. Of course, if, as Senator Tremonti has just said, the Bank of Italy deals with hydrogeological disruptions, perhaps in the upcoming constitutional reforms, instead of the CNEL, we could also imagine abolishing the Bank of Italy, since it does not perform the function for which it is called to stay in our credit system. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, were we not Cassandres when, a few months ago, we said - but the debate in this House has always been killed by the vulgar vehemence of the force of the past Government; there was no right to speak - that it was not right to spend 10 billion to give the 80 euro bonuses to workers or 500 euros to students? If you have to be good administrators, please read the history of this country. Go and look at the work of some previous minister; try to study Vanoni. Try to learn something from the economic history of this country because, if you continue to behave not having well in mind the needs of the real country, you can continue to do all the business you want with that virtual world that has supported you until today. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Airola and Tosato. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u56	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u57	Mr President, today in this House we are debating a measure which contains rules for the rescue of the Monte dei Paschi banking institution in Siena, following the failure of the market operation which provided for a capital increase of five billion, as envisaged by the European Central Bank, following the stress tests of last July. I am also jumping to a whole series of considerations which, perhaps, have already been put forward technically, and I shall now turn to an issue which probably sees families, savers and people in danger more interested. They are in danger because Italians have historically been a people of savers: over the years our grandparents, our fathers have managed to accumulate a stock of wealth among the largest in the world. We have worked, we have made sacrifices, we have accumulated a little treasure that is allowing the country today to stay afloat. These savings were invested within the country in the ports considered safest, such as government bonds and financial instruments issued by a financial system considered to be among the most solid and risky in the world. Today the savings of Italians invested in these classes of financial instruments amount to hundreds of billions of euros. Think only of the subordinated bonds of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena: private savers have invested more than two billion. The government is taking note that the market solution that had been envisaged does not work, it has not worked, and it has begun to fear a public intervention regarding the Mount of the Paschi of Siena; but in a very late way, President, in an unorthodox way, in some ways, uncourageable and not decisive. In the case of the use of public money, in fact, the rules of the European Union impose, in a more or less direct way, a bail in some classes of financial instruments, such as shares or subordinated bonds. Perhaps there was a need for a government capable of making courageous choices to protect the citizens, who has the obligation to represent and defend in all fora, and who is able to reject the absurd European rules for the good of the country and the Italians. The road was very simple, from a technical point of view, but a different kind of policy would really have been needed. Mr President, someone will also have to explain to us and tell us who made this huge mess. The crisis in the Monte dei Paschi di Siena has cost billions of euros to the financial market, for direct damage and various infections and now it will cost Italian taxpayers about 6.5 billion euros. There is not a single exponent of this rude ruling class who takes responsibility. The representatives of all the institutions involved - the Italian Government, the European Commission, the European Central Bank, the Bank of Italy and the summits of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena - speak as if they were people who looked at the weather forecasts, intent on describing with wittyness phenomena not dependent on human action, as if they were something dropped from another world. A lot has already been said about the history of Monte dei Paschi di Siena in this period, but we have reached a point such that the epilogue of this story will remain imprinted in the imagination of the Italians as one of the largest bank cracs they remember. Mr President, this issue also becomes quite annoying: tens of billions of euros of savings have been burned because of an endless crisis. On the occasion of all the measures examined in the successive Commissions, the question asked was very simple: the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic took ten minutes to approve the creation of a fund of 10 billion euros to secure the Italian credit. Eventually, though, who took the money? Where is the list of subjects who have had huge loans without returning a lira? The victims of the rescue plans are mostly small savers and most of them are retired. Taking part in a demonstration under Consob's palace, here in Rome, I spoke to a gentleman, who must have been eighty years old and had a sign with him. He told us that, following the death of his daughter in an accident, he had received about 200,000 euros from the insurance company, which he had invested in the bank and which he had then completely lost. These are very special situations, but there is also the case of those who have invested in the bank the money of the liquidation or the savings of a lifetime, who would have had to serve their children to buy a house or put on a family and who have vanished. It is money that has not been invested in highly speculative products, as we want to continue to believe, or in derivative securities, but in subordinated bonds, with a slightly higher rent than that of bonds. Then there was the question that, at the request of Senator Calderoli, at the beginning of today's sitting, was successful. It's a shameful thing. Mr President, with regard to the issue of the golf tournament, we wondered whether it is the hole that makes the hole or the hole that makes the hole: to posterity the harsh sentence. I am referring to the EUR 97 million earmarked for a bank guarantee relating to an event, albeit important, such as golf, which has been included in the measure under consideration, which really has nothing to do with this matter. We are therefore wondering what measure the allocation of EUR 97 million will subsequently be included in, which is so nicely granted, because I do not think that this is the end of the matter. They will certainly be included in another measure, perhaps a little less bold than the one under consideration. It is, however, an appropriation of EUR 97 million, which is added to the EUR 60 million already planned for this event in ten years. It will be a nice thing to see who will be the four or five beneficiaries of this appropriation. The story of golf concerns private property, yet it has sometimes been compared to the organization of the World Ski Championships in Cortina d'Ampezzo, for which financial resources have been allocated, but they have a precise purpose such as the construction of facilities and roads. These measures have shocked this House and fortunately there has been a reverse, but it must always be the North League that raises the problems. We have already said this before: if you go to steal from the bank you are still guilty even if you do not take away the miscarriage, as there is the crime of attempted robbery. Now let's see when and where this mishap will be sought and placed in the near future. Mr President, we are pleased with what happened this morning in this House for our action, of the minority, which you have brought to a successful conclusion. This shows our greatest attention to a government that brings in very special measures (to use euphemism) and our role towards a class of government that does not always know what is being done. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u58	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u59	Mr President, banking events have been a special feature of successive governments since 2014. It is precisely for this reason that, before preparing for an evaluation of the urgent measure on the nationalization of Monte dei Paschi di Siena, I think it is necessary to take from the drawer the irons of the historian's trade (in this case a very close story) to refresh our memory of what happened in recent years. The events that concern the banks have held the country hostage and penalized the competitiveness of our markets, monopolizing on several occasions the attention of the Government. This happened, in particular, from the Christmas break of two years ago. It is then precisely between Christmas and New Year's Eve that we discovered that four Italian banks - beginning with Banca Etruria - were in default and that, in order to save and recapitalise them, the Renzi Government had ratified in record time the European directive on bail in, while paying attention in the meantime to save the managers of the bank responsible not only for the bad management, but also for having given directives that would lead to the scam of thousands of small savers, who would have been induced, without their knowledge, to invest in highly risky bonds. Such diligence by the Government was not then used to make the twin directive operational - the directives were in fact two - which at the same time protected the savings of the currentists of the institutions in crisis, who would otherwise have seen the accounts reset. Once a life insurance policy was drawn up in favour of bank leaders, the government's attention and concern gradually faded. According to the latest leaked news, savers with investments of up to 100,000 euros reimbursed were just 20. For the others - and we are talking about over 10,000 people - there is still the Calvary of an endless bureaucracy. A few months later, a similar fate, with only seemingly less grotesque profiles, was reserved for Banca Popolare di Vicenza e Carige, also placed under the umbrella of the Atlas Fund managed by Cassa Depositi e Prestiti. Mr President, for Monte dei Paschi di Siena we have seen a different modus operandi in form and substance, and in my opinion, if possible, this has led to even more negative consequences. Here again we rewind the film: as we all know, the Monte dei Paschi di Siena is the oldest Italian bank and the Government, until the launch of the decree-law today under discussion, held about 4% of it. Although the institute of Rocca Salimbeni has resorted to the market for 8 billion in the last two years, its value has become increasingly low, it has had a decreasing trend tending to zero. At the end of July, Minister Padoan, as a major shareholder, had given public assurances, both to the European Union and to the public opinion of our country, giving for alleged a recovery plan to be implemented by last Christmas. Premier Renzi even said: "Today the bank is healed and investing is a business. Monte dei Paschi is a beautiful brand. There had been talk of continuity in the leadership of Monte dei Paschi di Siena, reassurances had arrived that the loans in distress through the Atlas Fund would be reabsorbed and put additional 5 billion from a group of private investors in the credit institution. This action plan, developed by a mysterious advisor in collaboration with the MEF, that is JP Morgan, served to make the Monte dei Paschi di Siena escape the application of the bail in, as provided for by current Community legislation. However, no more than a few weeks after these assurances, always thanks to the primacy of the Italian Government, the same summit of Via XX Settembre has become the protagonist of an intervention that, in order to be courteous, can be defined border line, dismenting absolutely what had been said only a few weeks before: in a phone call to the managing director Fabrizio Viola, the Government would have asked (a little veiledly) and obtained (very clearly) the immediate resignation of the manager in office. In the following episode we noticed that the Italian State, through the Deposit and Loan Fund, had already absorbed the unhealthy part of the bank, while investors and 5 billion had already lost track as well as certainties. Meanwhile, while the government, economists, the national and international press predicted disasters and catastrophes on the markets in the event of the victory of the No in the constitutional referendum, it was attempted, perhaps only symbolically, to identify on the horizon a private solution for the oldest bank in the world, referring to so-called Qatari funds, which, if indeed they had manifested interest, wisely thought to retreat as quickly as the fall of the comet in the night of December 4. During the last board of directors of Monte dei Paschi di Siena, before the formal announcement of the bankruptcy of the institute for failure to reach the recapitalisation from a private source, a concrete manifestation of interest to the purchase by a group of equity funds was revealed instead. This hypothesis, however, was not even taken into consideration by the board of the Sienese bank, with an attitude to say the least singular in a situation of certain and imminent failure. This strange circumstance reminds us of the horror movie "Don't open that door." Taking note of the unfortunate fate of the Bank of Rocca Salimbeni, the Government then met in extraordinary session at midnight, on the night between 23rd and 24th December, and gathered in record time a 20 billion euro bundle at the disposal of the capitalization of the new state bank. In front of this chronology of the facts, which is clearly outlined and which shows at least that there have been two weights and two measures in the treatment of the various bank defaults, some questions remain that need an answer and that bring us back to today's measure. I'm trying to scheme them. First. For what reasons in the case of the Monte dei Paschi wanted to take a privileged lane, was it decided to force the hand with Brussels - asking in fact for permission to grant State aid - to avoid the division of losses between shareholders, bondholders and, ultimately, large accountants of the Sienese bank? More simply, if the bail in was considered a fair and useful instrument in the previous cases, why didn't it apply to the Monte dei Paschi, despite today (as opposed to the times of the first four banks) is fully in force and included in our system? Second. For what reason, representatives of the Government, at the time of the Bank of Etruria allowed the losses followed by default to be shared between shareholders and bondholders - although it was clear that many of these had signed risky investments without their knowledge and had been cheated by the officials of the counters - while instead in the case of the Monte dei Paschi, where the repeated moments of fall are inevitably attributable to poor management and excessive exposure of the bank to large insolvent investors, was this not allowed? Third. Why did the figures of the financial sales of 23 December show a singular surge in the securities of Carige, Banca Veneta, and Banca Popolare di Vicenza (whose value suddenly skyrocketed, with a growth record of 35 percent in a single day)? Should it be assumed that there has been a leak on the intervention in closed markets in favour of Monte dei Paschi scheduled for the following night and that some lucky investors had the guarantee that those bonds were linked to those of Monte dei Paschi and that they would therefore receive the same treatment, penalty for millionaire compensation? In case this probable hypothesis is confirmed, who were the lucky ones who won the lottery on December 23? Fourth. It would seem appropriate to clarify here the role and degree of incisiveness that Mediobanca and JP Morgan had in managing the whole affair and in the outcome of the decisions taken. In particular, if it is true that the two institutions had been formally entrusted with the collection of the funds (the famous five billion) necessary for the recapitalisation on the market, and - even more importantly - if these companies will also obtain (despite the failure to achieve the objective) the payment of the maxicommission of 450 million euros that had been planned. And if so, with what money? Using part of the fund of 20 billion taken today from the pockets of the Italians? That is the list of bolds, of forced labour, of likely manipulations of the banking market, if we consider the deeply lacking interventions that have been made from the legislative point of view. I am referring, gentlemen of the Government, in particular to the reform of the popular banks, which launched hastily - making the end prevail over the "means" (i.e. the words used by the Governor of Bankitalia) - received a sound rejection by the Council of State. The decision of Palazzo Spada in fact intervened with a suspension - in a precautionary way - of the circular issued by Via Nazionale that contained the implementing rules for the transformation of the popular banks into SpA, freezing accordingly the term (fixed by the decree at the end of 2016), to launch the corporate transformation. The Council of State therefore referred the reform and the circular of Bankitalia to the Constitutional Court because it would present the profile of not manifesting unfoundedness in terms of constitutional legitimacy, in particular as regards the limitation of the right of withdrawal and because - I quote - it appears to be affected by derivative defects in the part where it governs the exclusion of the right to reimbursement. Precisely in the name of this circumstance of potential regulatory vacuum and therefore of deep uncertainty that falls on economic operators and on the market, we had proposed that this decree would correct the extension in fact established by the Council of State, suggesting that the extension of the deadline for the transformation of the BCC into SpA would come from the constitutionally responsible subjects of the legislative initiative: the Parliament and the Government. It was, ladies and gentlemen, a matter of taking stock of the situation, of a postponement of common sense pending the judgment of the Council. Not even this proposal, which I would describe as a form rather than a substance, was taken into account during the examination in the referee. Colleagues Senators, it seems clear that the banking policy inaugurated by the Renzi Government, which we are still suffering from today, has been affected by numerous vices: some of method, many and serious merit. Although, therefore, the defense of accountants from bank defaults was immediately (since the time of the scandal of the bank Aretina) the absolute priority that we have affirmed and supported in all possible fora, the succession of interventions of the Government has appeared less and less aimed at the good of savers - especially if small - and increasingly aimed at the protection of directors and large investors. In short, once again it protects the powerful powers against small entrepreneurs, pensioners and families. That is precisely why, ladies and gentlemen, my conscience does not allow me to support this measure on which I announce our vote against. [[Applause from Senators Giovanardi, Liuzzi and Perrone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u60	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the State High School "Giuseppe Maria Galanti" in Campobasso, who are attending our work from the stands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u61	Senator Molinari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u62	Mr President, Senators, Senators, it is strange that it is only I who stigmatize - I do not want the undersecretary Baretta for the excellent work he has done in the Commission - the fact that, at this very delicate and very important moment, Minister Padoan is not present in this debate, in which, for the first time, the Government and the State return to the banking world in this form of masked nationalization. It is absurd that those who have the task of directing the banking and financial policy of this country do not participate in this debate and it is also - I am sorry to say - a serious mistake, also because we are finally faced with a measure - which we hope is the last, but the news coming from the sector is certainly not reassuring - with which the famous request for authorisation to overtake the budget for 20 billion that we fired from this Assembly a few weeks ago and, a short time after the umpteenth question of trust, the last political act of the late Renzi Government, with which you voted the draft budget law. A draft budget law - I am obliged to remind you today - that the Executive declared as the best possible, because it would lead us (as you told us) into the world of Bengodi. Yet, the issue of banks in general and, in particular, the disaster of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena has been discussed for over five years and, therefore, you should not have even brought out the recurring excuse of the emergency, so much so that we are here to discuss the umpteenth conversion of a decree-law. We would have expected, at the time of the request of the overtaking and even more so today to make us swallow this umpteenth bitter pill, that the minister Padoan, that of that Government is continued and in the same delicate Ministry - and as Italy of Values, political force that has delivered an opening of credit both for the birth of the Government Gentiloni and for the overtaking - would expose quite other reasons that the general safeguard of the system, and that it did so in person. Above all, we would have expected other interventions to try to rebuild the confidence of Italian savers and citizens in the banking and economic system of this country. Even before, however, we would have expected a revolutionary act of intellectual honesty and truth - and I thank the Undersecretary Baretta who tried to do so in the Finance Committee, to tell the truth more with the omissions - that he would begin with an apology for the mistakes made or, at least, the admission of ignorance in governing them; but none of this. Moreover, it is a vain expectation, because by analyzing the measure under discussion today and shortly before the vote, we hope without yet another confidence, and despite the attempts made in the Commission to make the necessary changes to it, they are completely absent - we fear - those measures necessary to make the system truly safe. The only thing that is certain, apart from the small'systems', because these are the amendments that have passed and which have been approved in the course of the amendment in order to prevent at least the smart ones from taking advantage of them for the umpteenth time, is that the State, that is, we taxpayers, we make available to the banking system, many, many money and for the umpteenth time both in the form of guarantees and in the form of liquidity: a total of more than 200 billion, between guarantee and liquidity per purchase of shares, and we must also hope that they will suffice. These are tragedy and bitterness. Yet, we have told you in times not far away that now it was time to do something else, that not just open up the public portfolio for the umpteenth time, to send out those clear messages through which to make it understood that, at least, you try to govern the problem, as a political class worthy of this name should do. On the other hand, we have found the extension of the State guarantee (totally 93 million) to a golf tournament, which has nothing to do with saving money, and fortunately this Presidency has expounded it. Or the famous take away guarantees: liquidity guarantees, which we make available in the banking system for two or three months without any restructuring plan, and despite the provision of ELA (emergency liquidity assistance), that is the possibility of the Bank of Italy to intervene in case of liquidity. We're really crazy. Yet it was now time to adopt rules with which to strike, for example, those bank executives that some colleagues have also mentioned by name and surname (and they are always the same in the last twenty-thirty years), who intervene in these disasters and who have led us to this situation. It was the time to make a simple commitment by the Government to form a civil part in the causes of responsibility and bankruptcy, or to avoid that the measures present in this measure go, in some way, to reward beyond the sly even the famous speculators, on which in the last speech my colleague Quagliariello asked us some questions, that I hope some magistrate takes into consideration. It was the time to ban the provision of bonuses of any kind, to the corporate boards of those banks that access state aid and above all, since the issue has again got bogged down in Europe, to return to the path of separation between commercial banks and the financial sector. But none of this will be found in the vote, which leads us to condemn, even at this stage of the debate, the pervicacy with which we did not want to accept our amendments tabled in order to make these improvements, facilitating, for the umpteenth time and unfortunately, the nihilists and not only those who rage not only in this Parliament. If signs like these are missing and absent, strong signs of change, a single message will reach citizens and savers (and it is no coincidence that savings are protected in our Constitution because they are closely linked to the concept of citizenship), after having made available, for the umpteenth time, public money play-force taken away from other items of expenditure: the image that appears on the outside is that of an insipient political and ruling class, which continues to wait for the market to self-limit itself. In short, it will be easy for you to pass on the simplistic message that this is yet another gift to the banks. How can we not stigmatize the policy that Padoan pursues, and consequently the governments of which it is an expression, which is a clear and dangerous act of faith for the benefit of economic globalization which, unfortunately, is now clear only to be of apparent help to the peoples. But it is an existing attack on the rights gained by workers and citizens in the past century and on the very foundations of constitutional democracies. It is a policy heir to the idea that unbridled globalised capitalism is the best possible system, pretending that it does not have the effect, however - precisely because it has been renounced to govern it and control it by politics, as I warned in my speech during the reform of cooperative credit in this House - of eliminating the biodiversity of models of capitalism. And it is therefore possible to imagine the coexistence of a plurality of models of development in which it is possible to experience different compromises between growth, equity and social peace, more adherent to the different cultural contexts, in order to be able to say a good time that history is not over and - as already someone before me, and much more authoritative than I, recalled - geography is not over. We in the Italy of Values, as well as in the case of the provision of overtaking, having at heart before everything else our people and democratic institutions of this Republic, although we cannot vote for it - even more so after the suck of the guarantee at the golf tournament - we unfortunately know one thing: one of the limits of our system, which is counter-centric or familiaristic - a term that perhaps would be more just - is that, if you skip a single bank of the co-interest web that has been created over time, you risk jumping the whole system, endangering the same democracy. We shall therefore see to it that it is approved. We also know - and I believe everyone in this Senate knows this beyond shop tactics - that the now famous NPLs, i.e. the credits no longer due, are not the ones boasted towards families or small and medium-sized enterprises, but they are credits made to large groups of friends with the complicity of certain bad politics, to which loans were freely granted if not even given money. Therefore, I repeat again this time that Italy of Values, with suffering, will allow - and only because not doing so would be a worse evil - that the measure be approved. But this does not save you from your responsibilities and from proceeding immediately afterwards - and we will push you on this - to start and conclude the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system, and finally to put in place the necessary actions, with courage, to finally divide the commercial banks from the financial ones. It is necessary, in fact, to return to the real world and not to the financial world on the part of the banks and to rethink a good time the relationship between the Ministry of the Treasury, that is, the State, and the Bank of Italy and what it entails. At the same time, we expect that the day after this measure will be approved, Minister Padoan will resign for manifest inability to carry out his role. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u63	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u64	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u66	SIMONI (Mist). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with my brief speech, I would like to draw your attention to the paradoxical situation that took place a few days ago when in a major national medical magazine, thanks to a masterful press campaign, we wanted to paint the hospital Santa Maria Goretti as a garrison to be proud of. The article magnified the efficiency of the structure, suggesting that pontoon patients can count on the best assistance possible, even if there are conditions that the local ASL does not hesitate to define as hyperinflux, exceptional even, given the flu peak that - as is known - is always present at this time of year. We do not understand, therefore, where the exceptionality is, while the opposite is true: the Santa Maria Goretti, like the other pontoon hospitals, and most of the other hospital structures are going through a moment of deep crisis. The provision of services is severely impaired due to the systemic closure of departments, reductions in desks and timetables for specialist visits, the constant absence of essential equipment and the lack of suitable and functioning instruments. I leave out the now sadly known problem of staff shortages, the lack of tournover and the precarious galloping. In fact, it should not be forgotten that the dissemination of untruthful information on the real conditions of the hospital in Latina has arisen as a result of the violent controversy that has been raised from every political side for the failure to stabilize the precarious of the ASL in Latina, the only ones throughout Lazio. Telling a situation away light years from reality does not make a good service to anyone. That's not information! Stressing the purchase of stretchers as a merit is a shame, an unfortunate fact that reminds us how in Nola, a few days before, the lack of places imposed that the patients were on the ground. Praise the readiness to face the flu peak is yet another lie. The vaccinations are administered months and months after the request, when the emergency is no longer such or, in the case of neonatal vaccines, the expectations reach up to six months. The useless hysteria created for alleged outbreaks of meningitis in different areas of Italy has resulted in a real assault for the requests for vaccinations and, even there, endless lists. For this reason it is time to say enough information about both the risks to the health of the citizens and to hide under the carpet the inefficiencies and waste that characterize the Italian health and, specifically, the Santa Maria Goretti of Latina, for a long time on the brink of collapse. [[Applause from Senator Mussini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u69	CATTANEO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I am speaking about an alleged scoop, relaunched two days ago on the front page by one of the most authoritative newspapers in the country, the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), about the existence of a secret treasure, equal to 4.5 billion liquidity, in the hands of Italian universities and public research institutions. Well, if that were true, it would mean that for years the whole scientific and university community would be complicit in a gigantic operation of forgery of truth, of bodies that falsely mourn misery with the intention of deceiving citizens and, above all, the public decision-makers - so you, colleagues - to accumulate, even in times of crisis, mountains of money in the bank as many insatiable Uncle Scrooge. In fact, it is a colossal distortion of the facts that pollutes the public debate and regrets that a newspaper such as that of the Corriere della Sera (Corriere della Sera) has lent itself to it. This is an anomalous reconstruction that hurts research and the country, which seems inspired by the sole aim of confusing the waters on the financial abnormity and provision of public money by a single institution, the Italian Institute of Technology. It is an abnormity that has also come to light in this House, albeit laboriously, and which is supposed to be equivalent to the transparent management of universities and public research bodies. Well, what the "Corriere" has pompously defined as an investigation is constructed with inexplicable approximation. It is not said - for example - whether and to what extent the liquidity of each institution is already committed to research projects or whether the statutory provisions should be removed from those figures. And that is precisely what I have tried to clarify with a letter to the director of the "Corriere" published today in the daily newspaper. In fact, there is a difference between an institution such as the CNR, the total of which is composed of more than 400 million by the TFR of its employees, and another entity, which has been set aside and blocked in Banca d'Italia, as a result of an oversized flow of public financing since its foundation. There is a difference between a university that decides to allocate a surplus of 40 million cash for building and recovery interventions and put into compliance with its building heritage, including historical buildings, and an institution that instead transfers hundreds of millions of euros dedicated to the research it receives to a bank account. Analyzing the budgets and the accounts of the many institutions and universities called into question, examining and verifying those numbers, the only real treasure remains that of the Italian Institute of Technology, that is 450 million euros put there, stopped for decades. Meanwhile, in Italy there is no euro for a humanistic or scientific study. Well, if you want to make a truth operation, which I think is useful and necessary, about the resources really available to the Italian public research institutions and universities, I will be the first to make my contribution and to share information and efforts. In conclusion, I think it's vital to understand how that miserable 1.2 of the GDP that the country spends on research is spent. We owe it to young people, to those who no longer trust, who see the funds that should support their ideas allocated without competition. And you can't stop or lend to interested approximations that damage the country. Mr President, I would like to end by repeating the hope that the only abnormal treasure that exists, EUR 450 million for firm research into the IIT accounts, will finally be able to return to the benefit of all researchers through the financing of competitive calls open to the best ideas on every humanistic and scientific discipline. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u72	Before your speech, however, I would like to inform the House that, by mistake, I have to make speeches which should have taken place at the previous sitting. I would like to give the floor to everyone, but I would ask you to keep the speaking time to a minimum, because I still have to have the sitting closed at 1 p.m. Borioli (PD). Mr President, I rise to highlight the story of Ahmadreza Djalali, a researcher in the field of disaster medicine, of Iranian citizenship, who has for a long time carried out his activity in Italy at the University of Eastern Piedmont Amedeo Avogadro, residing a few years in Novara. Ahmadreza Djalali risks being sentenced to death for hanging in his country, following an accusation of espionage against which he protests his total innocence. Several initiatives have been taken in recent days to prevent this cruel and unjust outcome. Over 65,000 Italian citizens have signed a petition asking for its release. On Monday, a delegation of Italian MPs led by President Manconi was received by the Iranian ambassador to Italy, who undertook to ask Tehran for news and to report to them as soon as possible. What we know for certain, at the moment, is that Ahmadreza Djalali is locked up in Evin's prison, waiting to be tried and - as we fear in many people - sentenced to the death penalty. Without adding further words, I would like to read in this House some brief excerpts from the appeal made by the rector of the University of Eastern Piedmont, Amedeo Avogadro, Cesare Emanuel, on the occasion of the inauguration of the academic year last February 3, on behalf of the entire scientific community of the university. Dr. Djalali has never dreamed of making anti-Iran propaganda in Europe in its fields of activity; indeed, he has always spent on a positive image of his country (...). We are doing everything we can to avoid this colossal injustice that would take away from his family a tender husband and father and that would constitute, for the whole world, a new serious attack against the freedom of research and dissemination of research without barriers. This appeal, which I am sure the House intends to take as its own, I ask you, Mr President, to translate it as far as possible into the concrete commitment of this authoritative institution to take all possible steps to prevent the death by hanging of a researcher who, through his work, has also given much to our country. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-SI-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u75	Campanella (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I am sorry to have to speak at the end of the sitting of events of some seriousness: the current conduct of Italy leads to a deterioration of the dignity of people to make the policy that should govern society, more than foreign, enemy. I want to submit to this House, to which I pay all my respect, as a representative of the sovereign people, three facts of Italian life, which must come into this House with the utmost attention because, if we are not able to talk about it, we appear useless. Yesterday a letter of denunciation was made out of a precarious and unemployed man who chose to commit suicide; a letter of lucid denunciation that deserves response for having raised the issue of inviability of our country for very large groups of people. It's not just about young people. This morning is the first day of not working for an employee of the company who provides cleaning services to the Senate; a woman who is over sixty-five years old but, like other colleagues, aspired to continue her work because she has only twenty-five years of contributions and expects to have access to a pension of about 500 euros, compared to a salary of about 1,000 euros. In practice, she hoped to continue working to earn an income that would enable her to live dignifiedly. The letter arrived yesterday and warned her that she should not appear today: she was treated as an expired commodity. It is not even a question of problems linked to a lack of work alone. Yesterday a basic union declared an hour of strike because a worker on the assembly line, after having asked several times to get away from the workplace to go to the bathroom, failed to hold back and urinated himself. And I'm talking about a grown man. I believe that we must deal with a single major issue: today, the birth of many people in Italy appears to be a disgrace to be remedied by the flight. It seems that only the countries of sub-Saharan Africa are worse, but they also have war. There must be an alternative and we must find it in these Houses of Parliament, otherwise populisms, even the most biech, will have reason to be, beyond all the protests that, to date, are only hypocritical. I therefore call on this House to take charge of itself and to find the time and the way to deal with the issue of the livability of workers in Italy and the way in which to give them a life perspective that may appear possible.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u78	MOLINARI (Misto-Idv). Mr President, I have rarely used this parliamentary instrument, but never as today do I think it is necessary to give voice to the more than 2 million Italian citizens who have signed the bill of popular initiative proposed by Italy of the Values to reform the institute of self-defense within the values of our Constitution and, therefore, for a justice that respects the victims and gives certainty of the sentence. Never in the history of our Republic have so many citizens spontaneously - I would like to remind everyone - gone en masse to sign one of the instruments that our constituent Fathers have foreseen to allow participation in legislative life. And I would remind everyone that it falls within the remit of the democratic state to give security to its citizens in their daily lives, all the more so if the aggressions take place in personal homes or in the workplace. The proposal that we have made as Italy of the Values, and which has found such a broad consensus among our fellow citizens, is an attempt to give inevasive answers so as not to see our rule of law plunge into the barbarity of revenge, or worse. It is for this reason, and to express the indignation of more than 2 million citizens that I have taken the floor, that you should intervene with regard to the Justice Commission where that proposal (Senate Act No 2433), despite the fact that the Bureau had sent it quickly, is exhumed from the drawers and is being called into question, and there are no excuses for regulations and practices in order not to schedule it. Waiting, together with my colleagues in Italy of Values we will remain in this House until the resumption of work to demonstrate our indignation and that of the signatory citizens, occupying these ranks. Of course, we will take further steps to ensure that this bill is not put to the attention of the Senate. (The Senators of the Misto-Idv Group display signs bearing the words: "Inviolability of the domicile" and "Legitimate defence".)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u79	Take the signs off. Senator Molinari, through your Parent Company, you will be able to urge the Commission Bureau and the Conference of Leaders to schedule it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-08-LEG17-Senato-sed-757.ana.u80	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 10.03 p.m.
