ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:34 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u6	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, I would like to remind myself and the House that today is the 17th anniversary of the disappearance of Bettino Craxi. Political end, statesman, President of the Council among the longest-lived leaders of the Executive, Craxi certainly falls fully into the women and men who have contributed to making our country great in Europe and in the world. As in the past, this year no commemoration has been planned in this House to commemorate a martyr. Yes, a martyr. I know I use a strong expression, but I do it without any polemic spirit, but in the light of a trivial consideration. For years now Italy has been at the forefront of the tragedy of immigration: we host, care, offer relief and we take care of hundreds of thousands of migrants, in the name of an unprecedented humanitarian spirit: unprecedented, at least as far as the human aspect of the Craxi affair was concerned, an Italian citizen who died exile in Tunisia. There was no humanity in that case, and I do not say so only by belonging to that socialist community that remained orphan after the exit of the scene and the subsequent disappearance of its leader; I do not say it as a nostalgic of the First Republic, as they are defined, in a contemptuous tone, those who are not willing to trash that political phase in total: I say it as a man, as a citizen, as all of you are. With regard to Italian Craxi no humanity has been demonstrated; there was only a judicial mannaia, ride media and politically by the detractors of a context that saw the central PSI in the life of the country. From the rubble of that experience began a slow process of rotation into key roles of our institutions, at all levels. Undisputably collapsed a system in which some disappeared while others rushed to occupy the empty spaces. As national secretary of the PDS, the bold D'Alema became national secretary of the DS, and then became president of it while he held the office of President of the Council. These are the most difficult years of Craxi's disease, those that preceded its disappearance, an avoidable disappearance with appropriate care and structures. On this precise point, D'Alema himself intervened a few weeks ago, supporting his not better specified commitment to the Milan Public Prosecutor, holder of the investigation against Craxi and the PSI, aimed at obtaining a sort of safe conduct for the socialist leader so as to allow him the appropriate care in his country. None of this has gone to the political chronicle of those years. These are new facts learned exclusively following the recent statements with which D'Alema has expressed his will to help Craxi. Given the result, we hope it will no longer help anyone! That humanity to which I have made ample mention would then have wanted a strong and decisive act, aimed at not letting a man of the institutions die outside his country, just as today Italy does not abandon any of those who are in difficulties on its territory, regardless of whether they are citizens, immigrants or illegals. Today we greet Craxi for the seventeenth time, happy for the humanity that the country has been able to find, after having denied it to him. Mr President, with a symbolic gesture, I am wearing the shirt "Je suis Craxi", obviously with the tie for respect to this House, and this bundle of red carnations (the senator shows a bundle of red carnations) is in your memory and those victims who are still under the rubble of that "slavina" that overwhelmed them, of that "earthquake" that killed in foreign land Bettino Craxi. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP and AP groups (Ncd-CpI) and Senator Giovanardi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00709 by Senator Casini and other senators and 1-00712 by Senator Bertorotta and other senators on the Venezuela crisis. I call Senator Casini to explain motion No 709.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u8	Mr President, first of all, allow me to thank the President of the Senate, the Bureau and the Conference of Leaders, starting with the majority and opposition groups, for the sensitivity with which they wished to include in the agenda of the proceedings of the Assembly of our Senate a motion, on Venezuela, tabled by me and many colleagues from all the parliamentary groups. The situation in this country is documented; last, if you open this morning's "Corriere della sera" you can read an article on page 17 entitled "The Venezuelan schoolgirl" that the regime accuses of coups: this student is locked in a military prison after a trip to Brussels. It is the last example - but unfortunately the chain is dramatically long - of a dramatic situation that I personally saw in Venezuela. I would like to remind my colleagues of some data showing how this situation has deteriorated in an incredible and exponential way in recent years. In the post-war period the community of Italian residents in Venezuela was the first for economic remittances on the national territory. In the 1970s the Venezuelan economy was one of the world's major economies. Today more than 20 percent of school - age children are underfed and it is not difficult to see for Venezuelan cities children, elderly people, women and men rummaging through the garbage to find some source of livelihood. Crime is skyrocketing. Beyond the fake reassurances that the regime provides, there is a de facto curfew that leads people in the evening hours to lock themselves in and avoid being around the city, so high is the level of insecurity and fear for robberies, kidnappings and murders. In this country more than 90 murders take place a day and the city of Caracas, as reported by all statistics, is one of the most dangerous cities in the world. The drug trade, the political-criminal connection is skyrocketing and I wouldn't want to go any further in this description because it hurts me, because I love this country, because this country is also a child of the sacrifices of many Italians who have sacrificed themselves. They are Italians who have settled in Venezuela and have also had economic satisfactions because they have become great entrepreneurs and constitute the excellence of the country. Today they divide their hearts between the Venezuelan flag and the Italian tricolor flag. I met many of them at the Italian club in Venezuela and heard in them words of discouragement. One of our fellow citizens told me that we cannot understand them, because we have not experienced and do not experience fear and anguish for the future. Many of these fellow citizens have sent their children out of the country, because at least they are quiet in knowing them in some foreign city to study. Many of these compatriots look to their future with uncertainty, but many of them are not even in a position to have minimal answers in terms of social security. I'd like to tell you an episode, because episodes matter more than words. I would like to thank our ambassador and all the staff of the consulate, the embassy and the institutions. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI), PD, FI-PdL XVII, Mixed and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE.]] They really deserve the applause of this House, because they are in great difficulty in carrying out their diplomatic mission. Well, our President, Mr Gentiloni, has repeatedly asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs for permission to send containers. The answer that the Venezuelan government gave was as follows: "What is the need for medicine containers? We have all the medicines you want here. Give us a list of your countrymen and tell us what medicines you need. While this was the answer of their Minister for Foreign Affairs, in the same hours the mother of an Italian employee died because she lacked a medicine, an anticoagulant. There is no point in reminding you that one of our diplomats was killed before the summer in his home in Caracas, so certainly the applause that this House has given to diplomatic staff is deserved, because there is also a physical fear to go into that reality. In the meantime, the ranks of our fellow countrymen are intensifying at the consulate, because they all try to have passports or, in any case, to obtain recognition of their qualifications compared to a future that they see more and more uncertain. I speak of politics and I do not judge the Chavista regime, because I would like this debate, apart from the views of the political groups, to be brought up to date; I am not interested in giving a judgment on Chavez and the past, because I do not want to diminish my description in a controversy that can also be presented in Venezuela as a political polemic. Not that I really am a strong supporter of chavista politics, but Chavez has been repeatedly elected by the people and the international community has respected Chavez as elected by the people; exactly the same respect that we owe and owe to the same people, who previously voted Chavez, who one year ago voted for three-quarters of a Parliament in an antagonism position to the current government. But what did the government do? Instead of following the path of cooperation with Parliament, the depositary of the will of the people, Parliament's delegitimizing action has begun through the constitutional justice bodies, which has even led Parliament to live up to a condition that cannot be regarded as simply uncomfortable. Apart from the fact that Members' salaries have now also been suspended, so they are not paid, but that is all it is! They are now also being arrested, as parliamentary immunity has been lifted. I went there (I am telling you clearly, because we all know each other in this House and, I hope, we respect each other beyond the various political assessments) for two reasons: the first is moral, towards our community; the second is about our fellow Members, because it is not right that we should promote the sovereignty of parliaments, but then, when a legitimately elected Parliament is trampled on, the free world forgets those Members. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI), PD and FI-PdL XVII]] I tried to visit Mayor Ledezma, who is under house arrest, and Leopoldo López is still under arrest. It is a tragic picture: the leaders of the opposition are in jail, many others are inquisited, of course using the mechanisms of ordinary justice, because all the balances between the powers of that State have been blown. We are not alone, ladies and gentlemen. It is not only the Italian Parliament that denounces this situation. Together with us there is the European Parliament which has drawn up a beautiful document. Together with us are the main communities of the free countries. We're not against the Venezuelan government. We are a country that respects the other constitutional systems. We may have different political views, but we respect the Venezuelan Government and demand equal respect for the Venezuelan Parliament. We ask that the path of dialogue be embraced, but the path of dialogue, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be a pretence to take time, perhaps waiting for the price of oil to rise again. It is clear, in fact, that in this affair the price of oil has had a very important impact, because the resources of this country, deserted by a different type of industry, have a sort of dependence on oil. Oil has fallen, and it is clear that resources have fallen. I shall conclude, Mr President. I apologize for being passionate, but really this cause deserves passion. We must make an appeal and we must also address a prayer to the Government. I'm telling you with sincerity. I spoke to Minister Alfano about this and wrote a letter to President Gentiloni, with whom I also spoke. We need to strengthen our diplomatic and consular services immediately. In order for this debate not to be unnecessary, we must ask the Government for precise commitments from this point of view and in a month or two to check whether these commitments have been made. We must respond to the anguish of the Italian community and these compatriots, beyond the elections of Italians abroad. Elections are beautiful realities, but in these moments they feel abandoned by us. We must assume the responsibility of not abandoning them and of remembering, not only in the electoral campaign, that these Italians have so much in common with us and today they appeal to the home country, to Italy. Colleagues, the motion is broad and articulated. You've read most of it, and I don't want to add anything else to that. Instead, I want to make a final wish, so that Venezuela will return to be the country that has always been: a civil country, where political passion is high, but where majority and opposition confront each other on the level of respect for political dialogue. We have neighbouring countries, such as Cuba and Colombia, where progress is being made. Even in Colombia, the dialogue with the Farc (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia) has led (we hope) to close a dramatic phase in the history of that country. We cannot see a Venezuela running countertrend with the risk, at the end of this tunnel, of violent confrontation. That is why I thank all of you for your attention and I think that this motion is a good page for Parliament and for the Italian institutions. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpI), PD, FI-PdL XVII, Misto, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and ALA-SCLP.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u9	I call Senator Bertorotta to explain motion No 712.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u10	Mr President, I would like to say that we are shocked at the speed at which President Casini's motion has been scheduled. Remember that we of the 5 Star Movement on July 26, 2016 have tabled a motion on foreign policy and still today we are waiting for its calendarization. In the face of the elephantic times of the Senate that President Casini wanted to transform, together with other partners, into a sort of bivouac for regional councillors and mayors without powers. It is a reform that, fortunately, was blocked by the Italian people with an overwhelming vote, which this majority did not want to understand as a warning to go to the vote. This is another story, but it gives the measure of how democratic and respectful our country is of the will of the people. What are we going to blame other states with democratic shortcomings? I'd really like to understand that. We who have not spent a word on the heinous violence of the Mexican security apparatuses that make disappear, torture and kill high school students who protest, we who have helped bring the Greek people to their knees with an absurd rigidity on austerity, we who sell weapons to Saudi Arabia to bomb civilians in Yemen, we who allow the states of Eastern Europe to treat migrants as beasts, leaving them to hunger and cold. Let us remember these things before we shoot zero on other states. The President of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, emigration, despite the solicitations of the 5 Star Movement Group to participate in a mission in Venezuela, decided to leave alone, going to the Latin American country to campaign with our compatriots, making himself available to the most radical wing of the Venezuelan opposition. That is all, Mr President. Having said that, let us move on to the motion before us today. I think that if Andreotti, Spadolini, Fanfani and all the great, albeit controversial, political figures of our past had read this motion, they would have given a 2 vote in diplomacy to their beloved heir. In fact, motion No. 709 seems like an act of diplomatic war to a sovereign country or, better, an unprecedented act of interference and I quickly explain the reasons for this statement. How can we ask this Parliament to sign a motion which would oblige a sovereign state to change the balance of its internal powers? How do we ask this state to release prisoners accused of terrorism, interruption of public service, arson to public buildings and universities, murder of policemen and officials, violent demonstrations and so on? I do not understand then how President Casini can present a motion in total opposition to the position of the Holy See, which - I remember - has clearly supported the dialogue between the parties. Perhaps President Casini changed his religion, or no longer follows the line of the Catholic Church? The sharpening of the confrontation that is taking place, which is not comparable to the demonstrations of some scattered group of antagonists in Italy, but most of this Parliament is immediately ready to ask for very strict measures for those who use violent methods in the streets, does not give any hope as to what could happen if the situation were to fall. We put at risk our fellow citizens in the country, who are a minority compared to the totality of the Venezuelan people. All this is done after a careful reflection on the situation, which also the past Renzi Government had done at the mouth of both the former Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation Federica Mogherini and of the Undersecretary Mario Giro, when, on the occasion of the violent demonstrations of February 2014 in Venezuela, they had expressed themselves clearly for the dialogue between the parties, even in the protection of our fellow citizens. Why should Parliament today change its line, supporting the most extreme factions of the opposition, which are not available for dialogue with the Government promoted by the Holy See? The world is certainly not that smooth, comfortable and democratic environment in which everything is as we would like. We know very well that, if we wanted to, we could criticize every single country, on the basis of the same considerations that we use for Venezuela. The world, unfortunately, is what it is and every country is not perfect, indeed far from it. How, then, can we even think of interfering in the internal affairs of another state, as if nothing were at all? When we have done so, we have made very serious mistakes, which we are paying in a very salty way today. There is no need to remind you of Libya, Syria and even before Iraq and Afghanistan which, with an impetus of libertic ideology we first destabilized and then devastated, obtaining in return only huge problems, death, destruction and refugees. Let us take it slow, then, with condemnations and look at the problems of our fellow citizens. The first is safety. Italians in Venezuela are the subject of ruthless forms of common crime: kidnappings, robberies and so on. If we want to improve this situation, we must work with the government in office, ask for exceptional security measures to protect our fellow citizens, push for more protection, not to go in a confrontational direction, which can only make the situation worse. Strengthening diplomatic services will not secure Italians in the country, because they need police guards, supplies, controls of residential areas and companies, no longer consular staff. This we can do only and exclusively by dialogue with the Government. Another problem is the claims of our companies. We have just said about the critical economic situation. Well, how do we expect to get the payment of what is due, attention not from the government, but from the Venezuelan State, when what is missing is currency, that is, money? We negotiate, then, and try to close an agreement that can facilitate the state to pay our companies: I am sure that the credits of our companies will be paid quickly if we intervene in this direction, dialogue with the Government. Another problem is the dialogue between the Government and the opposition. Many faults are certain of the government, of the endemic corruption that affects not only Venezuela, but also the other Latin American countries. But, as you well know, corruption affects us, too. What would we think if Germany asked to subvert our institutions in the morning? I do not think it is acceptable, even in view of the fact that the opposition is not one. As in all countries, there is an opposition that poses sacred problems and does so peacefully, at least without being responsible for attacks on the security forces or unjustifiable criminal acts. It is necessary to ask not only the government, but also the opposition in the streets to be free from armed violence as a form of political struggle. We didn't accept it in Italy during the lead years and we can't expect anyone else to accept it just because we don't like the government in office. The effort of Pope Francis for a solution of peace and dialogue must be supported with conviction. We must work on harmony and peace and not blow on the fire of violence and hatred, and then put at risk the lives of thousands of our fellow countrymen, who are certainly largely involved in the protests of the opposition, but who at the same time must be protected, even by that minority part of the opposition that, in order to take Maduro out, would not hesitate to support another coup d'état. Let us be clear, Mr President: Maduro will not be welcomed by all the Venezuelan people, but that does not mean he has no support. In recent years the policies of the Chavist governments have created so much discontent, but also so much support, especially in the poorest strata of the population. In Venezuela one in four citizens own one weapon, while the army is heavily deployed with the government in office. Do we want to take this fact into account, or do we want to tell the story of the dictator who oppresses the people? I am fully aware of how many Italians in the country are opposed to the Government, but the change must take place in compliance with democratic rules and the division of powers, which the Venezuelans have established and repeatedly confirmed with votes and referendums. The path is perhaps longer, but it will certainly lead to a peaceful and shared change of pace, maintaining stability, which - we must put it in our head - is an absolute value in today's world. On the other hand, we will only and exclusively obtain violence and mourning and our fellow countrymen will, in one way or another, be victims of this state of affairs. We also believe that, if our government wants to support our fellow countrymen in Venezuela, it must first of all do so on the basis of its own responsibilities. The INPS has carried out a real scam against pensioners residing in the Latin American country, paying pensions with a change favorable to Italy. So about 4,000 pensioners ended up with a pension of 10 euros. It seems that the situation is resolved, but this has led to justified complaints. We will see at the end of the month how much the agreements have been respected. Another issue concerns air flights. Our community is among the largest abroad, but to return to Italy it must face a long journey and make stopover in Spain. Let us agree to reopen the trade to Italy, let us do things and not talk, because words are at zero and the protection of our fellow citizens must be the first priority of this Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u11	I declare the debate open. He is enlisted to speak Senator Divine. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u12	Mr President, we must honestly tell you that we feel like Martians at this time. We have a strange habit of representing the League: that of turning, hearing, confronting, beating the streets. And at this moment we hear citizens constantly turning to us saying: We don't know which side to turn on anymore. The data that our statistical institutes offer us tells us that one in two young people has no future in Italy. In central Italy the entire earthquake population is under the snow and sleeps in caravans or tents with immense inconveniences. We are unable to reach a location to recover people and, perhaps, even victims buried in the snow. That is today's figure and we here must stop and listen and declare an urgent debate on Venezuela! We can also understand that Venezuela does not live so well, but we do not live well in so many parts of the world, we do not live better in Iraq or Syria, in contact with the cutthroat: half the world lacks respect for democracy and human rights. But in this historical moment, when Italians are suffering an infinite number of inconveniences, talking about the problems of Venezuela or any other country in the world, the difficulties to reach it because there are no direct flights, it horrifies us. We regard this as ridiculous and, above all, offensive to all the Italians whom I have just mentioned. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u13	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank President Casini for this motion and especially for his recent visit to Venezuela, which brought our public opinion to the attention of a nation that is remote geographically but very close to us culturally and socially. A solid and long bond unites Italy and Venezuela. Leaving aside the historical roots, which even refer to the name, Venezuela (which Amerigo Vespucci assigned to those lands due to the resemblance, the presence of stilts, with the city of Venice), the most alive, concrete and recent bond is, instead, our migration, since Venezuela became a destination of many Italians who saw themselves forced to emigrate in the fifties from a destroyed Italy, withdrawn from a long and bloody war. They were real economic migrants, as we would say now, but Venezuela welcomed them and still, in large numbers, live throughout the country. The Italian presence, the Italian migration, has made a great contribution to the economy and growth of Venezuela, which has therefore greatly benefited from it. Conversely, the Italians in Venezuela, despite the initial difficulties, have been able to integrate and have often made fortunes, obtaining great personal and professional satisfactions. The integration of Italians into Venezuelan society is witnessed by two elected Presidents of Italian origin, from the Italian surnames, since, at the end of the 1950s (and not the 1960s, as one of the two motions reports), Venezuela resumed the democratic structure with the direct election of the President of the Venezuelan Republic, at the time Rómulo Betancourt. The attention to Venezuela by Italy is therefore necessary and therefore this opportunity to discuss Venezuela and the events of recent years will well come. Without going too far back in time, let's say that Hugo Chávez's long presidency has produced great changes in the country, economic, geopolitical and even institutional. Venezuela has even changed its name by calling itself the Bolivarian Republic, to underline the historical origin and the ideal connection with Simón Bolivar. Venezuela in Chavez, benefiting from particularly favourable economic conditions linked to the price of the barrel of oil, of which Venezuela is one of the main producers and exporters, has undertaken very onerous welfare programs with a strong state presence in the economy. This is a legitimate socialist choice, without abandoning the market economy. The geopolitical choices of opposition with the United States of America have favored alliances on the one hand (I understand the Bolivarian Alliance for the Americas, ALBA), but also strong contrasts on the other, with the United States in the first place, but also with neighbouring Colombia and Guyana. The premature end of a leader like Chavez in 2013 (and not in 2014, as written in a motion), the vertical fall in the price of crude oil and the inherent weakness of national industry have plunged Venezuela into a deep crisis that is both economic, political and institutional. In April 2013, Chavez's successor, President Nicolás Maduro, was elected, who continued the economic and social policy of his predecessor. The price of oil, on which the country's economy is based, however, does not mention rising and the crisis has therefore increased. The Venezuelan people suffer from the shortage of basic necessities (food and medicines) so much that we speak explicitly of the humanitarian crisis. In this sense, Senator Casini's first-signed motion commits our Government, however much in its capacity and with its limitations, to alleviate its consequences, in particular through an extraordinary plan of assistance to our fellow countrymen who many live in Venezuela. This economic crisis is intertwined with a profound political and institutional crisis. President Maduro governs with strong opposition in the National Parliament (the Asamblea Nacional) and, as already mentioned, the last parliamentary elections, in December 2015, gave a very strong majority (two thirds) to the opposition grouping, namely the MUD (Mesa de la Unidad Democrática). However, recent decisions by the Supreme Court have effectively exonerated this democratically elected Parliament. I would also remind you that the regional elections of December 2016 did not take place and were postponed by the Sine Die Government, as well as a revocatory referendum on President Maduro, who had also collected millions of signatures, as required by the Constitution. We are therefore at a particular moment in Venezuelan history, in which democracy is really at risk, which is also solid and, as I said, dates back to the 1950s. The crisis is profound, with the political parties that do not recognize each other and, unfortunately, sometimes this opposition has resulted in violence on both sides: to free violence of the Forces of the Order have often responded equally violent reactions. Violence to be condemned, always and in any case. In this situation, various attempts have already been made to mediate between the parties. I remember the one led by former Spanish Prime Minister Zapatero and the most recent attempt of the Apostolic Nuncio on behalf of the Holy See. My appeal to our Government, in line with what is indicated in the motion, is therefore to act, taking an active role, proposing and operating with its diplomatic channels for the resumption of dialogue between the parties. Italy cannot remain timidly at the window in the face of the growing crisis that this friendly country is experiencing. Italy is therefore an incentive for the European Union and the High Representative Mogherini to take a position in favour of dialogue between the parties. To this end, the European Parliament's plenary assembly has also recently expressed its views. On this occasion, Italy also uses the prestige and role that the presence of the United Nations Security Council gives it, in order to find the right place and the right methods for the necessary and urgent mediation between the parties. A point that is not elusive in this area is certainly the fate of political leaders who are subject to restrictions on their personal freedom. Concrete management by President Maduro would be desirable for the resumption of dialogue. However, the role that American organisations - I mean UNASUR and OSA - can play in pushing the parties to dialogue is important. It is clear, of course, that the desirable Italian proposal must be presented without being in any way perceived and interpreted as interference. On the other hand, it must be perceived and evaluated for what it must be, i.e. a concrete aid to the disinterested and neutral dialogue. We cannot hide - and it must be said without infinity - that the Venezuelan Government considers the United States of America an enemy promoting a so-called economic war against Venezuela. True or false, this must be taken into account. From this point of view, our Atlantic ally should take a step back, keep a low profile and refrain from commenting on Venezuelan reality. For example, the recent announced interest of the newly elected President of the United States in Venezuela risks further worsening the current stalemate in the non-existent dialogue between the Venezuelan Government and the opposition. On the contrary, the Venezuelan political parties must be helped to find a place and a way to deal, each according to its own responsibilities, for the common good of the Venezuelan people, of which a not negligible part has origin or even Italian nationality. In conclusion, I very much trust that Rome, understood both as the capital of Italy, and therefore as Farnesina, and as the Holy See, thanks also to this Parliament of ours, creates a real and viable opportunity to resume a fruitful and positive confrontation between the Venezuelan Government and the opposition. [[Applause from Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u15	He is registered to speak Senator Rossi Luciano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u16	Mr President, I have firmly signed President Casini's motion for its content but also for a series of meanings that bind our country to Venezuela and to our fellow countrymen who have brought work, wealth, commitment and sacrifice to that distant country, in the past and also recently. There is no doubt that a country so rich in history and culture, but also and above all, let me say, from a material point of view, of riches that come from the subsoil (oil and raw materials in general), has seen a great development and a great wealth so much to be placed, as Casini recalled, at the very first places of the international economy to arrive at a dramatic moment, in which it slipped into a situation of absolute gravity. This shows, in my opinion, how much the protest without proposal, in fact, has led the Government, first with Chávez and today with Maduro, to a certain managerial inability and, at the same time, to a lack of initiative. So I have firmly signed the motion, hoping to find an enlarged sharing and to compose positions by bringing our Parliament together towards an initiative that must necessarily reach not only our compatriots, not only the many people living in that territory, but also a government, that can reflect on our solicitation. A solicitation that is not, Senator Bertorotta, an intrusiveness nor wants to be a conditioning, indeed it is light years away from this evaluation, but at the same time must oblige us to a positive and proactive involvement, to make a contribution to this country, far away but close in culture. Our fellow countrymen who have given so much to that country, who have spent themselves with great passion and commitment and who have so much been protagonists in the creation of the wealth that for a long time that that country has been able to offer, today they are seen in a situation of absolute poverty. It is a serious situation that goes beyond the drama and for this I believe that it will do well for our Parliament to find a sharing, I hope unanimously, because this would be the message necessary to reach our fellow citizens with a hope, with the closeness but also with the precise will to be proactive in giving answers to that country. My colleague, Mr Divina, wondered what this situation had to do with our country, Italy, so suffering: attention, because that vote of protest, then perhaps even motivated, without proposal brought such a rich country into that situation of poverty. Let us hope that this will not happen in other countries as well. [[Applause from Senators Albertini, Gambaro and Zizza. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for allowing me a few minutes to testify to my personal adherence to President Casini's motion. I think each of us has in his imagination an idea of Venezuela, that is, South America. My personal idea begins as a teenager when, collecting stamps, I had a particular preference for those issued by that distant country of the South American continent. On the wave of the watermark, we lived of memories, extraordinary landscapes and also of great economic and social opportunities. In fact, that country represented, for us Europeans and in particular for us southerners, a new beach, a new horizon also with regard to the economic and social emancipation of us southerners. I have personally met dozens of Apulians who have turned their attention, and therefore their hopes of improving their destinies, to Venezuela, emigrated to that country. I knew, alas, a few months ago, many Apulians who returned disappointed by that experience, although they had enriched that country with great opportunities and having contributed in the years of economic boom and prosperity to the rebirth of our populations also through the considerable economic remittances that they produced in that country. Well, today we must certainly give meaning to feelings and give meaning to civil rebellion, of which we are told, for us of absolute importance, from that distant country. Therefore, in associating myself with the wishes contained in the motion, I would like to add my own staff that this Parliament should press not only for international initiatives to be promoted, through appropriate tables such as those invoked by our motion, but also for it to be inculcated in Venezuelans, in particular in the remaining ruling class of Venezuela, a sense of guilt about the miscelated sense of pride that unfortunately pervades that ruling class, today rather inclined to hide the dust under the carpet in order not to recognize the serious errors committed in planning of an economic, political and social nature. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Micheloni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u19	Mr President, I entirely agree with President Casini's speech in explaining the motion, for which I thank him. He concluded with an appeal that no controversy should be lost on this point, an important appeal which was unfortunately not received by this House and I am sorry. This moment is not so important to us and I do not think that we will fundamentally change the situation, but it is of great importance to our community living in Venezuela. On the other hand, this is not the first time that the Senate has dealt with this problem: with President Casini, President Manconi, with the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad, we have repeatedly received delegations of Italian residents in Venezuela who have come here to illustrate the difficulties and problems they face and have always denounced the disinterest of politics and information in Venezuela. One of their constant concerns is that in Europe there is not enough talk of Venezuela, so this moment is of great importance for the whole of that community. I am sorry that the Divine Senator has come out at this moment, but what he said about this motion can be said about any topic: we deal with the topics on the agenda and the fact that we are talking about Venezuela today does not certainly mean that I am not concerned about my land of Abruzzo. That land, on the other hand, was built and very developed with the remittances of the Abruzzo people in Venezuela. And I would like to remind the League that everything that the North-East is today, from an economic point of view, is due not to what they are doing, but to the work and remittances of hundreds of thousands of Italians who have gone into the world. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini.]] Link of the 5 Star Movement, I do not believe that this motion is a declaration of war: to recall the universal and fundamental values of the functioning of democracy is the expression of a message from a friendly country to another friendly country. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Casini.]] We are not judges, but we call for dialogue. Among the many trips that have been made and the many presences in Venezuela - it is true, I was surprised by the individual mission of the President, but he did well, although I would have preferred perhaps a larger delegation - we also went to the Committee for the issues of Italians abroad, on March 1, 2015: Senator Montevecchi, Senator Pagano and myself, together with Dr. D'Addio, we had the most dramatic encounter with the Italian communities in the world that I have remembered since I lived this reality (and I was seven years old). We've fallen apart from that meeting, which I believe Senator Montevecchi, Senator Pagano and I will never forget, for what we've heard and seen. And there was no problem with the majority or opposition, because it is the situation of a community. We have come out with a commitment, as will surely remember my colleague Montevecchi and my colleague Pagano: to face the only concrete thing we could intervene on as Italy, i.e. the payment of pensions. It took us a year and a half and here, for honesty and fairness, I must thank some people in the Government who supported our request: I see here the Undersecretary Pizzetti, who has carried out this intervention of ours; I must thank the INPS, the Ministry of Labour, that of the economy and, finally, the Undersecretary Amendola, because finally the pensions of this month will be paid with a different change from that decided by the Venezuelan Government. For us it is little, for our pensioners - who are 5,500 - it will completely change the situation. It took us a year and a half, but we did. This commitment, my dear colleague, we have brought it to fruition: pensions at the end of this month will be different. In this regard, I once again appeal to the Undersecretary Pizzetti to verify information that comes from the INPS: out of the 5,500 pensioners, only 3,800 will benefit from this novelty. It must be verified that everyone benefits from this change. President Casini asked for an intervention on our diplomatic structure: this is important, dear colleague of the 5 Star Movement, because it is not true that it is insignificant to be able to respond to hundreds of people who queue in front of the consulates, it means that you have experienced little emigration. To respond to this, the rules that exist now are not enough, that do not work. We have already prepared and signed an amendment by the Senators of the foreign college, which we will attach to the first useful vehicle, in order to allow the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to hire staff on site and to have security resources and also to be able to send the Order Forces to protect our structures. I therefore announce this amendment that, as a result of this debate, I hope it will achieve its objective. There would be many other things to say, but I cannot but mention - as President Casini has already done, which I thank him for - our official, who was murdered in Venezuela on 4 June 2016, Mauro Monciatti, who I believe deserves a special memory and thought from this House. Just as they deserve a greeting and a thought very heard the whole team of the embassy and our consular network in Venezuela: greeting for all our Ambassador Silvio Mignano, whom I thank for what they are doing in situations of great difficulty. Finally, Mr President, I would like to return to the opening of this speech, to the word 'polemics'. We really need to get out of this climate of controversy and focus on the issues we are talking about. This applies to this House but also to political forces. I considered absolutely shameful the statements of the Italian Association Movement abroad (MAIE), a few weeks ago, which accused the Democratic Party and the Italian Government of having abandoned the Italians in Venezuela. As I have briefly mentioned, we have not abandoned them, we have done what could be done and now, giving a signal to all Venezuelan politics, of majority and opposition, with respect to the fact that the only way out is dialogue I think we can not call interference, but a call from a friendly country to another friendly country. [[Applause from the PD groups]] and AP (Ncd-CpI).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u22	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I am a little embarrassed because I felt and believe that such a delicate and important situation as that of Venezuela should have been dealt with by this House with a unanimous view, perhaps through motions discussed in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and with a firm support from the Government. It does not escape, for example, that in a motion it is expected that we must take action in the European Union to obtain from the Venezuelan Government (then, the Venezuelan Government becomes third to which we turn), while in the motion of the 5 Star Movement Group the Government is committed to starting a dialogue with the Venezuelan Government and they say, basically, the same things about the substance, about the objectives to be achieved. I therefore ask the Government - the representative of foreign affairs is not present, but there is still an authoritative member of the Commission - whether it makes sense for the Italian Parliament to split up, with positions as conflicting and controversial as those we have heard, compared to a friendly country, and rather not to suspend the examination of these motions in order to find a united motion. It would seem contradictory to me that when we want to intervene in such a difficult and problematic situation for Italians living in Venezuela, with an explosive internal situation, between majority and opposition and opposing groups, it is the Italian Parliament that breaks down. Terms have been used that are not a declaration of war, but I do not know if they are diplomatic: I do not know if the Farnesina and the Foreign Minister can agree that, with respect to the Vatican diplomacy that is working to find agreement between the parties, we seem to be only party to one side and not to the other. It does not seem useful to me, then I ask the Government if it does not consider that this debate should be postponed in order to reach an agreement so that the Italian Parliament can speak with one voice in favour of the Venezuelan people, a voice of friendship, which calls for agreements, integration and democracy and does not create a situation which risks incanculating the opposition between the parties.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u25	Mr Pizzetti, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, we believe that it would be important to reach a united conclusion of the Italian Parliament, in this case the Senate, and the wish of Senator Giovanardi is widely shared by the Government. As far as the continuation of the work is concerned, I refer you back to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u26	At this point, I would ask you to know the views of the groups regarding the request, which has just been made, for a postponement of the debate in order to arrive at a unified solution, a debate which - I would like to make a hypothesis - could be placed on next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u29	CASINI (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, I certainly agree, like all my colleagues who have tabled this motion, with the objective of unitary convergence. On the other hand, I would point out that the motion that I tabled has signatures from all the parliamentary groups: I am sorry that Mr Giovanardi underestimated this aspect. The 5 Star Movement has decided to file its own motion. I too hope that there can be convergence on the motion that all the rest of Parliament has agreed to; it seems difficult to me the reverse, because there is a logic in things and this motion is presented by the majority and the whole opposition, except for the 5 Star Movement. I therefore believe that a quarter of an hour's delay is certainly a good thing, and then we have explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u30	President Casini, for the experience I have, the 15-minute solutions are of no use at all. So let us see if there is a willingness to find a solution with the necessary time. I'll ask Senator Russo what he thinks. (Senator Casini approaches Senator Russo.) President Casini, at the moment the groups are responding, not the President of the Commission, nor with suggestions in progress, because Senator Russo has an active microphone.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u33	Mr Russo (PD). Mr President, it also seems to us that on such a sensitive subject it would be appropriate to find an agreed position from the whole of this House. We have been taught that in international politics, as far as possible, it is good to develop unitary positions. We will therefore also be supporting the proposal for a break, with the hope that the days, until next week, will help to better define the framework.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u36	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to point out that my Group, or at least the Italian Left, has not signed the motion tabled by President Casini and does not intend to vote on it. On the other hand, he felt that a significant pause would be desirable on such a sensitive issue so that a text could be shared and voted on by everyone, because dividing Parliament on such a sensitive issue seems to me to be a very serious foreign policy mistake.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u37	Also because I listened frankly to the speeches and did not find this unanimity of visions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u40	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I imagine that President Casini has an all-embracing vision and that with his first signature he covers the rest of the parliamentary groups. However, the Northern League Group did not sign either the first or the second of the motions submitted: so let us distinguish the positions. If you want to sum it up, do it up, find yourself, but don't go now and jam Parliament and the Senate on a debate that can and must be closed today, otherwise we really fall into ridicule also because of the gravity of the other problems that we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u43	PETROCELLI (M5S). Mr President, I have some concerns about what was said in the last speech by President Casini. I understand that a large part of the Groups, with some members of the Groups themselves, have signed the motion at the first signature of Senator Casini, but the fact remains that the need to present an alternative on the part of our Group stems from two fundamental issues. First of all, we completely disagree with the preliminary considerations of the Casini first-signed motion. As far as commitments are concerned, I stress above all the absurdity of the first commitment, which we consider to be an unqualified interference in the internal affairs of a friendly country. As for the controversy that would have developed here today, I would like to stress that the polemics are almost always born from an attitude that is not really clear and correct by those who promote action. Now, sharing what Senator Micheloni, chairman of the Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad, says, I would like to point out that the controversy was generated by an individual mission, requested by President Casini and granted by the Presidency of the Senate on 27 and 30 December, which, contrary to the custom of the Foreign Affairs Commission, led the only President representing only one political party, as well as the majority of the Government, to go to a country in which the situation is not that painted in the premises and in the considered of the motion presented by President Casini himself. Before we get to say that we converge on the text that most of the Senate is proposing, I would say to be careful and to distinguish both issues: the considered and the commitments. We therefore turn to the decisions of this House. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u46	Orellana (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, since what we do in this House is important not only for our nation and in this case we are talking about a friendly country and which is close to us, I believe that, in order not to give the idea of a fracture and a division, the attempt to arrive at a united motion, however improbable and perhaps fruitless, must be tried without going absolutely beyond the next sitting on Tuesday. I consider this attempt to be very difficult, and I think that some of the positions expressed in this House by everyone should be revised a little. In particular, I am referring to my colleague...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u47	Senator Orellana, we're making a proposal on the order of business. We can't go back to the point right now. I take note of your position.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u50	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, the members of our Group in the Commission have signed Mr Casini's motion. We believe that there are no margins to do, as always, forcedly ecumenical documents, which then leave a little 'time they find. We therefore ask that we move forward and vote on the motions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u53	AMORUSO (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, we in the ALA Group have firmly signed the motion tabled by President Casini and we believe that it is an interpreter of the will of the majority, both of the Commission and of this House. In the Commission, we have devoted time and work to discussing this issue, and I think the positions have been highlighted and it is difficult to find a summary. I also agree that we should proceed and close the debate today.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u54	Colleagues, in view of the lack of convergence, I have to ask for a vote from this House. I remember that the government has expressed itself in a certain way, but it seems that we have not noticed it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u57	Comrade (CoR). Mr President, on your last point, what struck me in our debate - I am one of the signatories to the first-signed motion by President Casini - is that when you gave the floor to the Government, the latter prejudicedly, without noticing anything, as it should have done, on the substance of the two motions, you asked us to suspend the work. From this point of view, I would like to join the Government's request by noting or deducing - if I am wrong, I apologise to the Government's representative - that the Government does not seem at all able today to give us a substantive opinion on the two texts, above all, as has been pointed out, on the first point of the commitment of the first-signed motion by President Casini, but also on the point committed by the Government to the completely different tone and argument of Mr Bertorotta's motion. Noting that the Government has failed to do so when such motions are incarnate and has prejudiced on time, I have no reason not to give him this time.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u58	Colleagues, as there has been a request to suspend the work which might see the conclusion of this examination on Tuesday next, I put the proposal to the vote... [[Brusio.]] No, ladies and gentlemen, everyone has spoken and has expressed their position, but since there is no convergence I am forced to put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u60	You have it, Senator D'Alì. Did something different happen that changed your mind? D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, forgive me, but the wording of the motion for a postponement did not refer to the fact that the motion could be placed at the first item on Tuesday's agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator D'Alì, you may not have heard me, but I explained the proposal in these terms. D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). As I apologise for my eventual defiance, I say that if the Presidency's proposal is precisely to put the debate on the motion at the first item on Tuesday's agenda, then our Group agrees with the postponement at this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u63	MANCUSO (AP (Ncd-CpI)). Mr President, we agree with the proposal to put this issue on the first item on the agenda for Tuesday's sitting. We believe, in fact, that a moment of reflection on it is useful.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u64	At this point, I should rather ask if anyone is against the postponement proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u67	MARTELLI (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for the proposal to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u68	I put to the vote the proposal to postpone the debate on the motions for resolutions on the Venezuela crisis to the first item on the agenda of the sitting on Tuesday 24 January. It's approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's approved. I would therefore like to refer to the continuation of the debate on motions for a further sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u69	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u71	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, on 21 December last I was in this House to draw attention to the case of the workers of SANAC, a company that produces refractory products and is wholly controlled by ILVA. On December 19, I had been at a meeting in Massa where I was told by such workers that I was worried about losing their jobs. I immediately put a question, 4-06768, to the Ministers for Labour and Social Policy and Economic Development. 10:48 a.m. (Following Paglini). We are talking about steel. The crisis involving the sector and the lack of a national vision on the future of steel have led to the sector being unable to restart. In Italy there are four SANAC plants in the balance and there are about 400 jobs at risk, of course, plus the induced. There is a problem of very tight times: a separate sale of ILVA and SANAC is expected. Despite the meeting that took place at MISE on December 12, by the Government there has not been an express reassurance to the workers, The deadline of January 31, 2017 to sell the SANAC through an ad hoc ban, as announced to the MISE, is to be avoided absolutely. What would happen in this case? It must be made clear that on the horizon there are no expressions of interest in this productive reality, and therefore the fate of so many workers is suspended. Above all, there is no certainty as to the protection of the workplace under current contractual conditions. To date, we have not had answers from the Ministries, despite that on the occasion of the meeting on the territory of Massa, two parliamentary representatives of majority of the Democratic Party expressed themselves giving the certainty that the signalling of the SANAC company was already on the desk of the current Deputy Minister Bellanova. We wonder why, after a very long time, we do not have fast answers. The meeting granted to the workers by the Undersecretary, by chance, will only be on 2 February 20I7! Therefore the workers of SANAC di Massa, very worried and desperate by so much lightness towards them, inform me that Friday 20 January (i.e. tomorrow) will be on strike and in garrison in front of the plant. They call for an immediate meeting with Deputy Minister Bellanova compared to the one previously planned for 2 February 2017, so as to have clarity on what their future will be. Time is running out and we are afraid that it will be too late in February! Government if you're hitting us. SANAC workers, I'll be with you tomorrow at your garrison. I'll see you there.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u72	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u74	PHASE (PD). Mr President, I would like to refer to the draft law No 1742 which I tabled exactly two years ago. This is a measure that recalls the need to adapt in some way the pension treatment of war people who have suffered damage or mutilation following the last world war, which has left indelible traces and wounds still open especially in those few Italian citizens still alive, who have suffered physical and moral damage since that war and who still bear very obvious signs of mutilation and disability suffered (and this also applies to the surviving relatives). Let's just think about the blind civilians of war, which are about 800. These pensions, the result of the 1978 single text, have only been adjusted in 1986 and 1991; these are minimum adjustments which do not really do justice. It is therefore necessary to take this measure into account, also in the light of yesterday's discussion on the bill for the establishment of the National Day of Civil Victims of Wars and Conflicts in the World, on which colleagues Amati and Valentini related. I have understood, I believe, the importance of this day together with the whole House, and I hope that it will lead young people in particular to a strong reflection on this issue. After two years I therefore call for the aforementioned bill to be resumed, partly because the value of these pensions has now been reduced to less than 50%, so there is absolutely a need to recognise this compensation and this compensation treatment, which, among other things, cannot be combined with minimum pensions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u77	D'ALI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to ask the Presidency to speak urgently with the Government on a very serious incident which took place on Monday afternoon in the waters in front of the Libyan coasts, at a reasonable distance (more than 20 miles). A fishing vessel in Mazara del Vallo was flanked and machined by a Libyan unit, we do not know which Libyan faction (that is what we ask the Government to tell us). We do not know if the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for the Interior will respond, since we do not understand who is currently dealing with the relations between Italy and Libya between the two Dicasteries. The very serious fact remains that a Libyan motorboat has machined an Italian fishing vessel. I say Italian, because I still want to think that the Italian Government considers Sicilian citizens as part of this country. This is a very serious matter, which has endangered the lives of many of our fellow countrymen who were on board that unit. Thanks also to the expertise of the same commander, the worst has been averted and the means has returned, with the obvious signs of the machine gunning, to the port of Mazara del Vallo. We are waiting for the Government, as a matter of urgency, to report to us on an intolerable incident, at a time when we hold dozens of surveillance units in the Mediterranean for the migrant emergency and do not think we are protecting our fellow citizens who go there to earn their lives.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u78	The Presidency will take responsibility for the correct observations of Senator D'Ali, in order to transmit them immediately, given the dramatic events, to the relevant government authorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u81	Mr Pezzopane (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation I described in this House yesterday has unfortunately worsened, despite the intervention of the authorities of the State, the Army and the Civil Protection. New and serious events took place yesterday. The appeal that I make to the president of the Senate and to my colleagues is to support this effort that Abruzzo is making, not alone; also the Region Marche and other territories have been hit by a lasting, heavy disturbance and that has also affected areas not accustomed to snowfalls so insistent. But yesterday, as you know, particularly in part of Abruzzo, a tragic combination of snow and earthquake has been created and, following this tragic combination, there are unfortunately people who have lost their lives. They lost their lives to an elder, to the collapse of the place where he worked, and a volunteer. There is a missing person in a municipality of Aquilano, Campotosto, probably victim of a Slavina and there is this tragic news, intervened yesterday evening, of the hotel in Rigopiano, in the province of Pescara (but "grabbed" on the Gran Sasso), where unfortunately the victims begin to count. The emergency situation continues. There are over 100,000 people, even in the area affected by the earthquake, without electricity. Despite the efforts, turbines and special means that are coming, there are families and hamlets of the mountain where people are still alone in the house, are not reachable and are terrified by the earthquake. The effort that is being made is great, but I assure you that more must be done, knowing that in the next few hours probably more will come from the hotel in Rigopiano and not positive news. I thank you for your attention and ask the President to support my request for further efforts by the State. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u82	I believe that this is absolutely indispensable for the news that everyone has reached from Rigopiano and also for the alarm that so many of us collect from mayors and administrators, especially for electricity. I hope that ENEL and those who must act, at least in this respect, will not make even more dramatic an emergency that is being renewed with results, alas, tragic. I no longer see President Casini, who mentioned that he wanted to speak. It has obviously reached the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u85	Mr Quagliarello (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL)). Mr President, I have asked to speak on two issues that are entirely different in importance. I do it with due delicacy. Firstly, I agree with Mr Pezzopane's words. Unfortunately, the news coming from the Rigopiano is dramatic. I fear that we will soon know a much worse budget than we could have imagined. This, of course, brings the attention of the institutions even more to what is happening. If I can supplement Senator Pezzopane's request, I would like the Minister of Agricultural Policy to come urgently to make a statement because there is a drama in the drama. I am referring to the farmers of the Marche, Umbria, Lazio and Abruzzo who are losing the primary good of their activity and initiative. This, in some cases, is also due to delays that, at a time when weather conditions become so adverse, take on a greater severity. Since I believe that the task of the institutions is also to look beyond, it is necessary that we, from now on, are concerned so that we can not lose the primary good on which to establish a sudden recovery of these areas so strongly affected. Mr President, I would also like to speak on another area which is no less sensitive. I am referring to the story of Fermo, where the tragic death of a Nigerian occurred a few months ago. He was a man who had sought asylum - his name was Emmanuel Chidi Nnamdi - and had been mentioned in this House. I am intervening today because this matter has come to a judicial conclusion for which the defendant, Amedeo Mancini, has settled four years. He was recognized as the racial addict, but also as the attenuating of provocation. The reconstruction of events has established that there has been an unbearable insult on his part that must be condemned and stigmatized. Following this insult, however, Mancini was the subject of an attack that ended tragically. From here came a clearly contained penalty, which nevertheless rightly emphasizes the fact that racial insult is not bearable. This Assembly had to deal with the matter on July 7, 2016. On that occasion my colleague from Group and Party, Senator Giovanardi, tried to point out the need for a deepening of the facts that, among other things, had been approached to those of Dhaka, where our compatriots lost their lives for a terrorist attack during which they were forced to kneel and were asked to recite the Koran and, in lack of knowledge of the text, were beheaded. On that occasion Senator Giovanardi was the subject of expressions such as: "Shut up", "Shut up", "Shut up", "Shut up", "You're a worm", "Hunt him out." The most serious thing is that on that occasion he was not given the floor to express his opinion. We call ourselves Parliament precisely because not only do we express 'politically correct' opinions here, but we also listen to those of our opponents. Evidently, in the light of the conclusion of the case, some reason for that request for deepening emerges from a clear examination of the papers that does not veil the condemnation of any kind of racial insult. I believe that today we should recall that parliamentary episode and, perhaps, also call for the Presidency to intervene. In fact, if a mistake has been made in relation to one of our colleagues - which is absolutely possible in the context of the debates that sometimes characterize this House, which, on the other hand, is made up of men and not robots - there is a very simple way of repairing it, that is to say, seeing it. This is due not so much to Senator Giovanardi, but to this institution. Senator Giovanardi is a senator of my Group and, as far as I'm concerned, also a friend. This intervention I would have done even if it had concerned an opponent of mine and opinions that I did not share. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL) and the Senators Candiani, Liuzzi, Mussini and Zavoli.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u88	PUPPATE (PD). Mr President, I would like to highlight something other than that already expressed in Mr De Cristofaro's speech just now on the subject of subscriptions to high-speed trains. Along with more than twenty colleagues, an expression of various parliamentary groups, on June 9th - more than seven months ago - I submitted a written question to Minister Delrio, communicating to him the difficulties of commuters following the statements of the managing director of Trenitalia, who no longer intended to proceed to subscriptions on the Frecciarossa trains. That hypothesis has been overcome with alternative subscriptions that, however, in some cases have been found multipliers of the costs that supported, and still support, the obligated commuters, students and workers, of many Italian regions. As Mr De Cristofaro has said, it is quite clear that this is an economic slaughter which, in many cases, will cause many people to return to use the car. We cannot afford this because, in addition to the economic damage to families, there would also be an extremely serious environmental problem, which is already present in particular in some areas of Italy, including those of the Po Valley of the North, where the issue had arisen. It is in fact in that area that some regional sections had not been made more available to commuters and, therefore, the obligatory alternative was the use of high speed. The economic issues, of social character, and of environmental character therefore oblige - I say it with much urgency and I know that our minister Delrio is very sensitive to the issue - not to consider enough - I have now seen the ANSA - the fact that the managing director of Trenitalia on the 24th, that is next Tuesday afternoon, comes to the Commission transports to deal with the topic. I think that the importance of this subject, which has already been highlighted in important questions over the last few months, deserves a full discussion in a question time. In addition, the need for regional and national synergy should be raised in the State-Regions Conference in order to resolve this very serious problem which is jeopardising the economy of many families and the situation of Italian commuting.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u89	As you yourself said, Senator, it is scheduled for Tuesday next at 13.30 a.m., in the 8th Commission, for a hearing of the manager of the company concerned to examine the subject, which of course can be resumed at other stages, even in this House, if the inspection tools, which have certainly already been activated, are also properly requested by the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u90	I greet the students and professors of the State Institute of Secondary Education (Giuseppe Di Vittorio) in Ladispoli, in the province of Rome, who are following the final part of the Senate's work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u93	De Cristofaro (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, I would like to urge the Government not only to respond very quickly, but also to take immediate action in relation to the abbreviated question 2-00438 which we presented yesterday to the entire Group of the Italian Left on the matter, in our opinion very serious, of the totally reckless increase in the cost of high-speed subscriptions. This is a very serious matter, Mr President, because it concerns several thousand people, commuters in particular of the Rome-Naples route, but also of the Milan-Turin route and of various places in Italy, of course also of the Lazio Region. These are totally reckless increases, absolutely unsustainable also seen the economic crisis unfortunately very serious in our country; moreover there is also a really intolerable joke by Trenitalia, which provides discounted rates in the range between 9 am and 5 pm, which is clearly the one not used by commuters. In short, it seems a very punitive decision towards those people who, not only are forced to go to work in a place different from their home city and therefore every day they have to make a train journey of one hour on the way and an hour on the return, but even, despite this difficulty and the discomfort of having to travel often in precarious conditions with reservations to be made in difficult conditions, according to this brilliant and genius operation of the summits of Trenitalia, they are also having to pay much higher prices than those practiced in these years. To me it seems truly incredible that Trenitalia, which, moreover, has the characteristic of being a private monopoly company, which uses - as we know - one of the most important goods of this country, i.e. the services of rail mobility, arrogates this truly intolerable right, which undermines the right of thousands and thousands of citizens. We call for an immediate intervention by the Government, if possible also in synergy with the Regions, to put an end to this situation, which really represents a real finger in the unbearable eye for thousands of people. [[Applause from Senator Cervellini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-01-19-LEG17-Senato-sed-744.ana.u94	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 11.11 a.m.
