ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.42 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 15 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16,44 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the Conference of Leaders approved the agenda of the Assembly's work until 16 March 2017, distributing over a longer period the discussion of the topics already foreseen in the current calendar, with some additions. The integrations established concern: the inclusion of the bill linked to the public finance maneuver on the fight against poverty, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, where concluded by the Commission; the decree-law on the fight against illegal immigration; the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council, at the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 8 March; the clause "where concluded by the Commission" for the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system. The calendar can also be integrated with the discussion of the document defined by Commissions 3a and 4a on the participation of Italy in international missions. During today's afternoon session, until its conclusion, the general discussion of the bill of conversion of the decree-law on the Mezzogiorno will take place. Tomorrow morning the session will begin at 9 a.m. with the call for the election of a Vice President of the Senate. The ballot boxes will remain open until 12.30. After the call will continue the examination of the decree-law on the Mezzogiorno, with the intention to conclude it within the evening.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u5	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, which met today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration into the programme of work for January, February and March 2017. - Draft law n. 2494 and related - Contrast to poverty and reorganization of social benefits (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Linked to the public finance maneuver) (Final vote with the presence of the quorum)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u6	During the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the following calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until 16 March 2017 [[Tuesday 21 February pom. h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 2692 - Decree-Law n. 243, social and territorial cohesion areas of the Mezzogiorno (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (It falls on 28 February) - Vote for the election of a Vice President of the Senate (Vote by secret ballot by ballot) (Wednesday 22, ant.) (*) - Drawing of law n. 2583 - Protection of unaccompanied foreign minors (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 2092 and related - Provisions on citizenship (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Drawing of law n. 2494 and related - Contrast to poverty and reorganization of social benefits (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Linked to the maneuver of public finances) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Doc. III, n. 2 - Report of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the contested election in the Liguria Region - Drawing of Law n. 624 and related - Establishment of a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Banking System (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 22 " ant. h. 9-13 " " " " pom. h. 16,30 Thursday 23 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 23 February pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions (*) The call will be held at the opening of the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 22 February. The ballot boxes will remain open until 12.30 p.m. Amendments to bill No 2583 (Unaccompanied Foreign Minor Protection) should be tabled no later than 5 p.m. on Wednesday 22 February. The deadline for tabling amendments to draft law No 2092 and related (Citizenship provisions), No 2494 and related (Contrast to poverty and reorganization of social benefits) and No 624 and related (Banking System Investigation Commission) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions.]] [[Tuesday 28 February ant. h. 11-13 - Motions on second-class teachers and on the qualification of precarious teachers Tuesday 28 February pom. h. 16,30-20 - Follow-up to the bill n. 2067 and related - Amendments to the penal code, the criminal procedure code and the penitentiary order (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) - Possible follow-up to unfinished drafts of law Wednesday 1 March ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 2 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 2 March pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] The calendar can be integrated with the discussion of the document defined by the Commissions meeting 3a and 4a on the participation of Italy in international missions. [[Tuesday 7 March ant. h. 11-13 - Motions on the geological map of Italy Tuesday, March 7 pom. h. 16,30-20 - Possible follow-up to unfinished topics - Follow-up to bill no. 10-362-388-395-849-874-B - Crime of torture (Approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 302 and related - Recognition of the Italian language of signs - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 9 and 10 March 2017 (Wednesday 8, ant.) - Draft law n. 2085 - Annual Market and Competition Law (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (Linked to the Public Finance Maneuver) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) - Drawing of Constitutional Law n. 2643 - Changes to the Special Statute for Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol in the matter of the protection of the Ladin linguistic minority (Approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (First Resolution of the Senate) (Final vote with the presence of the legal number) (Ove concluded by the Commission) - Draft law n. 2441 - Amendments to the Criminal Code to counter the phenomenon of forced and early marriages (Ove concluded by the Commission) Wednesday 8 " ant. h. 9,30 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 9 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 9 March pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to bill 302 and related (Recognition of the Italian Sign Language) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 23 February. The deadline for tabling amendments to Constitutional Law No 2643 (Ladin linguistic minority) and to Law No 2441 (Contrast phenomenon of forced and early marriages) will be established in relation to the work of the Commissions. [[Tuesday 14 March ant. h. 11-13 - Motion n. 717, Mandelli, on initiatives against the spread of AIDS Tuesday 14 March pom. h. 16,30-20 - Eventually followed unfinished arguments - Drawing of law n. 2705 - Decree-Law n. 13, international protection procedures and illegal immigration contrast (It falls on 18 April) (Final vote by 22 March) Wednesday 15 " ant. h. 9,30-13 " " " pom. h. 16,30-20 Thursday 16 " ant. h. 9.30-14 Thursday 16 March pom. H. 16 - Questions and questions]] Amendments to draft law No 2705 (Decree-Law No 13, international protection procedures and illegal immigration law) will have to be tabled by 1 p.m. on Thursday 9 March. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2692 (Decree-Law No 243, social and territorial cohesion areas of the Mezzogiorno) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, including: PD 1 h. 8' FI-PdL XVII 35' M5S 31' Mixed 30' AP (Ncd-CpE) 28' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 24' ALA-SCLP 22' GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) 22' LN-Aut 21' COR 20' Dissentienti 5']] Breakdown of times for discussion of bill No 2494 and related (Contrast to poverty and reorganization of social benefits) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1h. Government 1h. Votes 1h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 35' FI-PdL XVII 49' M5S 44' Mixed 42' AP (Ncd-CpE) 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 33' ALA-SCLP 31' GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 2085 (annual market law and competition) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1h. Government 1h. Votes 1h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 35' FI-PdL XVII 49' M5S 44' Mixed 42' AP (Ncd-CpE) 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 33' ALA-SCLP 31' GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion on communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 9 and 10 March 2017 (3 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 2 hours and 30 minutes, of which: PD 34' FI-PdL XVII 17' M5S 16' Mixed 15' AP (Ncd-CpE) 14' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 12' ALA-SCLP 11' GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) 11' LN-Aut 10' COR 10' Dissentienti 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 2705 (Decree-Law No 13, international protection procedures and illegal immigration law) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 1h. Government 1h. Votes 1h. Groups 7 hours, of which: PD 1 h. 35' FI-PdL XVII 49' M5S 44' Mixed 42' AP (Ncd-CpE) 39' Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE 33' ALA-SCLP 31' GAL (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) 30' LN-Aut 29' COR 28' Dissentienti 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u9	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, once again, in the Conference of Leaders, we have raised a matter which is very much felt by the public, which, to be honest, also places us in the attention of the other branch of Parliament and which, however, does not find a solution. I am referring to the draft law on citizenship, which, among other things, is currently being held at the Pantheon and is planned for a national initiative on 28 February. Today it was even announced a sui generis motion by some MPs of the Democratic Party, who asked the Senate to approve the bill, which - alas - was approved by the House more than a year ago and therefore has been lying for more than a year within the 1st Commission, constitutional affairs, of the Senate. It is well known that there are very different positions on this issue and that 8,700 amendments have been tabled, but precisely because of this situation, Mr President, on several occasions I have asked for the draft law to be included in the agenda and, as you know, it has been included. However, at this point, I believe that we must take responsibility, otherwise the situation in the Commission will not be unblocked, which, in the face of the 8,700 amendments, does not even begin the debate. I therefore call for the draft law No 2092 to remain on schedule, as planned, but with the deletion of the wording 'where concluded by the Commission'. I believe that the elimination of this formula would finally give impetus to the work in the Commission. Many argue that theirs are not obstructive amendments and that there are some issues of substance. This change in the formula would induce every political force and each Group to take responsibility for explaining the issues it intends to address and perhaps the situation would unravel. It is not possible, Mr President, to maintain citizenship rules dating back to 1992, which are no longer adequate to address and solve the problem of responding to a million people, who are in fact Italian citizens, because they were born here, speak our language perfectly, work and study here: there are about 800,000 children. I do not think it is worthy of a civilized country to continue to prolong this situation. Mr President, I ask once again - and in advance of what Senator Zanda said, who had expressed his willingness - that everyone in this House should take responsibility for what he votes. The Group of the Party of European Socialists also makes an effort of goodwill and votes on my proposal to delete the formula 'where concluded by the Commission', in order to encourage the Commission to conclude the examination of the measure. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u12	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, first of all I would like to stigmatize the way in which parliamentary activity is proceeding. Honestly, this programming no longer responds to any logic: we cannot respect the timetables, not even in the short term, because every time something intervenes that changes the programming even at the will of the House. It is an unacceptable way of proceeding, which does not allow us to work peacefully, effectively and profitably. All the more reason why this is happening this week. Mr President, forgive me, I told you earlier at the Conference of the Leaders: it is unacceptable that all work should be squeezed down by tomorrow afternoon because on Thursday 23 there is a strike on the means. It seems that there are people in this House who are unable to stay in Rome until Friday, who are unable to plan and plan their work to stay in the Senate to work or go home on Fridays, as so many people do. So what's going on? It happens that we find ourselves having to compress the work between this afternoon, tonight and tomorrow, because tomorrow night there are people who have to run for a train or a plane, because you can't afford to go home on Fridays. Forgive me if I repeat this, but this is unacceptable, because then we have to work with the time constraints and this has negative repercussions on the way in which the measures are examined and often these measures have as an argument a matter of confidence, which once again compresses the freedom of a political force to express its opinion on a measure. If, in fact, on the measures you constantly raise questions of trust, opposition forces like ours will ever be able to express themselves? That is unacceptable. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] And then, I repeat here the appeal that I made to you in the Conference of the Leaders: I asked you to reflect, because it is not just a matter of the 5 Star Movement. Here is a country that is waiting for a signal from this Parliament, waiting for a signal of seriousness, of willingness to deal with the country's affairs. And is it possible that it will not be able to send out a signal for the citizens from this House? We are their representatives! Is it possible that none of us feel in this moral obligation? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the PD Group.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Talk to your Parent, who did not bring your voice at the Conference of Leaders; you would of course have stayed here until Friday, but you did not coordinate with your Parent, who, on the other hand, is very happy that the work of this House will end tomorrow evening. Then, having said this, without running the risk of having to put yet another confidence, we could easily, between this afternoon and tomorrow, examine the decree-law on the Mezzogiorno and Thursday, as per the timetable, proceed with the vote of the document of the Junta of the parliamentary elections and immunity that concerns the incandidability of Senator Minzolini. Senator Minzolini does not want it, but it has been three hundred days and seven months for that document to come to the Chamber and that is also unacceptable. Therefore, on Thursday we could continue, as planned, by examining the document of the Election Council and, as I understand that tomorrow we could also conclude the examination of the measure for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry into the banks, we could also put this measure on schedule and begin to incarnate it in this House. This is my proposal for a timetable, because it is useless to have two hours of plenary sitting on Tuesday morning and to commit the House with motions to wash our consciences, when, after a strike of means, we finish the work of this House on Wednesday afternoon, choking Parliament's work. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u15	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, my Parent Company preceded me. I too wanted to ask for Thursday morning to be included in the debate on the measure for setting up the Committee of Inquiry. Precisely because of the fact that there is the strike of means and that many strikes depend on the laws that this Parliament makes, I propose using Thursday to work and demonstrate that Parliament is there.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u18	Mr Paglini (M5S). Mr President, I rise to ask this House to have some conscience because we would like a political act to be scheduled as soon as possible which would free Italy and our country. It would free it because Italy is living under constant blackmail: poor people mean people who do not have the opportunity to find a job and in this country 83 percent of the people who do not work turn to relatives, friends, politicians, local administrators, powerful and only 4 percent turn to the agencies or employment offices. The income of citizenship wants to free the Italians from this corrupt system in the deepest foundations, a mafia system in which there is no serious protection widespread in the territory. People, in order to survive, turn to the mafias. President, bill 1148 on citizenship income is a serious measure, it is not a palliative like that of the Government, which, by chance, began to present it two days before the constitutional referendum, because this Government remembered the poor only when it wanted a vote. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are of the opinion that a signal should be given. We are tired of being ridiculed by a blind, deaf political class, and only taken by their own power games and armchairs, which will never get out of here with its head up because after four years here, nobody has done anything. The government bill you want to schedule is a fake: it will only give 250,000 families crumbs. We speak yes and no of 320 euros per month, only if you have a shameful economic condition, with maybe two children dependent. Mr President, the income of citizenship - said Calamandrei, not Senator Paglini - frees people, because a poor person is not free. A person can only be free in a State with free hands and a political class that does the interests of citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is why, Mr President, I thank you for allowing me to speak and I ask everyone to take this responsibility: do you want to keep making fun of us for a while longer or do you want to raise everyone's head and do the work for which we have been sent here, the good of the people who are outside these buildings? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u19	We shall now proceed to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the Assembly's work, which aims to expunge the clause "where concluded by the Commission" referring to the draft law on citizenship, put forward by Senator De Petris. It's not approved. DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the schedule of the Assembly's proceedings, aimed at including for next Thursday the examination of the document of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity on the contested election in the Liguria Region, advanced by Senator Montevecchi. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to include the discussion of further draft legislation. Verification of DIVINA (LN-Aut) quorum. We're asking for a quorum check. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u22	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, before you proceed with the other votes, I would like to point out to you that, as far as the vote on my proposal is concerned, it seems to me that you have misplaced it, because you put the proposal to the vote to include something that is already scheduled for Thursday 23 February. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u23	Maybe you didn't listen well. You asked for Thursday's entry, and it wasn't scheduled for Thursday's...
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u24	Montevecchi (M5S). Yes, Mr President, it was already planned for Thursday 23 February, as confirmed by the statement given by the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u25	Then his request had no reason to exist: if it was already in the calendar, there was no need to vote on a change in the timetable. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to include the discussion of the draft law on citizenship income and the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry into the banking system. It's not approved. SANTANGELO (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u28	TONINI (PD). Mr President, the 5th Commission has almost completed its work on the conversion of the Decree-Law on the Mezzogiorno. We are at the stage of explanations of vote and the final vote on the mandate to the rapporteur. I would therefore ask you for half an hour, 40 minutes, so that we can do this too, so that we can come to the House with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u29	All right, Senator Tonini.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u30	We greet the boys, girls and teachers of the Classical High School "Torquato Tasso" in Salerno, who attend our works. [[Applause.]] I shall suspend the sitting until 545 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5.06 p.m. and resumed at 5.45 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u31	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2692, already approved by the House of Deputies. The working rapporteur, Senator Tonini, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u32	Madam President, I am replacing the rapporteur, Senator Lai, who, as President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the causes of the Moby Prince ferry disaster, is today in Brussels for meetings in NATO, which have been planned for some time. And, therefore, he apologizes for my way, but it is justified by other institutional tasks. The measure we are examining has been dealt with by the 5th Commission, which is compatible with very short deadlines. And on this point I am obliged to report to the House the feeling of a certain discomfort, due to the fact that a practice of alternating bicameralism is being established for which the decrees-laws are examined by one Chamber, while the other being able only to express a assent. And of course this should be the subject of a debate and, in any case, it does not find the general consensus of the Groups, even if it is then being affirmed as a practice driven by the inertia of things. That being said, the measure before us has, in any case, allowed a level discussion on the policies for the Mezzogiorno. Of course - as has been said by the Government - the measure under discussion does not have the ambition to mark a historic turning point in southern policies. Therefore, the criticisms that have been addressed by a disappointing text probably do not grasp the true and explicit objective of the measure, which instead is to address in an innovative and effective way important nodes that have to do with long-term and long-term issues in our country that afflict, in particular, some areas of the Mezzogiorno and particularly sensitive points of the southern system of our country. I therefore come to a quick list of the essential points. Article 1 contains the rules for the completion of the procedure for the disposal of the ILVA group's business complexes, as well as large-scale energy efficiency and environmental rehabilitation projects. This is the first major block of the decree-law that addresses a theme to the attention of the whole territory and that concerns the economy of the whole country system and not only - although of course mainly - of the Mezzogiorno and the Apulian Region. The article 1-a, introduced by the Chamber, authorizes a expenditure of 24 million euros for 2017 in order to integrate the economic treatment of employees employed at the production plants of the Ilva for which the use of the Cassa Integrazione Guadagni extraordinarye is started or extended during the same year. Article 2 of the Directive aims to ensure rapid adaptation to the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered in 2012 and 2014, avoiding the worsening of the infringement procedures in place through intervention on the collection, sewering and purification of the necessary waste water. Article 3 intervenes on the composition of the direction cabin established to define the strategic guidelines for the elaboration of the program of environmental rehabilitation and urban regeneration of the Bagnoli-Coroglio area and to ensure coordination with further initiatives of valorization of the aforementioned area, also with reference to its infrastructural endowment. It is also expected that this steering booth will be presided over by the President of the Council of Ministers or by a Minister or State Secretary to the Presidency of the Council he has appointed. Compared to the text originally approved by the Government, during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies the possibility was included to appoint also a State Secretary to the Presidency of the Council as well as a Minister. The article 3-a, introduced during the examination in the Chamber, authorizes the current extraordinary commissioner for the implementation of the intervention of safety and management of hazardous and radioactive waste located in the warehouse ex Cemerad, in the territory of the Municipality of Statte, to carry out the custody to the Sogin SpA of the service of transport, characterization and disposal of the waste present in the said deposit, as well as the final radiological reclamation and release of the areas without radiological constraints, also using controlled companies. The article 3-b, introduced during the examination at the Chamber, provides that the Region Puglia provides, using the Agency for the environmental protection of the Region Puglia and the local health company competent, the preparation of an extraordinary plan of investigation and deepening, aimed at verifying the state of the environmental matrixes in the Municipality of Ugento and, in particular, in the area affected by the presence of the landfill in Burgesi. Article 3c, inserted at the first reading in the Chamber of Deputies, deals with incentives for energy produced in favour of operators of plants powered by biomass, biogas and biogas. This is done, on the one hand, by extending the right to benefit from an energy incentive and, on the other hand, by changing the criteria for determining the amount of the same incentive. The article 3-d increases by ten units, limited to the year 2017, the medium force of auxiliary office of complement of the Arm of the Carabinieri Article 4 brings provisions in order to counter the crisis in existence in the section of the marine transport, in particular in the field of the handling of the container and in the activities of the transhipment of goods, the so-called transhipment. The article 4-a, introduced in the course of the examination near the Chamber of Deputies, increases the contribution for the completion and the implementation of the immaterial net of the interporti, finalized to the potenziamento of the level of service on the national logistic net of five million euros for each of the years, from 2017 to 2022. Article 4-b, introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, requires a regulation by the Minister for Health and the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport to review the procedures, requirements and time limits for verifying the suitability of tankers carrying water intended for human consumption. Article 5 increases by EUR 50 million for 2017 the appropriation of the non-self-sufficiency fund. Article 5-a, introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, allocates, as part of the signing of the programme agreements necessary for the allocation of the remaining resources of the multiannual plan of interventions for the public health heritage, a share equal to 100 million euros for the redevelopment and technological modernization of the latest generation oncology radiotherapy services in the regions Abruzzo, Molise, Puglia, Campania, Calabria, Basilicata, Sicily and Sardinia and, in particular, for the acquisition of equipment equipped with robotic or rotational technology. Article 6 authorizes the Ministry of Education of the University and Research to conclude and implement conventions with the Secretariat-General of the European Schools. Article 7 provides for the use of the negotiated procedure, without prior publication of the contract notice, for the award of public works contracts, supplies and services under the Italian Presidency of the G7 in 2017. Paragraph 1-a of article 7, introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, authorizes, from the year 2017, the annual expenditure of 500,000 euros, aimed at the organization on an annual basis of the Conference for the Mediterranean Dialogue, called MED Dialogue. Article 7-a aims to promote territorial rebalancing between the different areas of the country, providing that the additional resources for cohesion policies are also allocated according to the differentials present in the territories of the Mezzogiorno. It also provides for a reconnaissance of the ordinary capital expenditure appropriations in the territories concerned. In particular, paragraph 1 assigns to the political authority for cohesion the task of ensuring the application of the principle of differential allocation of additional resources in the territories of the Regions Abruzzo, Molise, Campania, Basilicata, Calabria, Puglia, Sicily and Sardinia. Article 7-b, introduced during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies, allows the Agency for Territorial Cohesion to conclude special agreements with the in-house companies of the State administrations, with the aim of strengthening the implementation of the 2014-2020 programming, supporting economic growth and accelerating the implementation of cohesion policy interventions. Article 7-c, inserted during the examination by the Chamber of Deputies, amends in part the discipline of the tax credit for the purchase of new capital goods destined for productive structures in assisted areas located in the Regions of the Mezzogiorno, introduced by the law of stability 2016. In particular, Sardinia is expected to be included among the regions of the Mezzogiorno eligible for the derogation from the State aid framework; the increase in the rates applied to the tax credit underlying the purchase of new capital goods; the maximum amount of each investment project and the abolition of the ban on the cumulation of tax credit with de minimis aid and other State aid which will be imposed on the same costs, provided that such cumulation does not lead to the highest aid intensity or amount allowed under European law being exceeded. The House then introduced four additional articles that list quickly: Article 7-d contains provisions for the completion of interventions financed by contributions granted under three legislative provisions. To this end, an extension is allowed for a period of three years from the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree-law in question for the use of those contributions which, not used for the intervention originally authorised, are intended for other purposes of public interest. Article 7-e establishes experimentally a programme called Magna Grecia - Matera towards the Mediterranean, aimed at specific financial projects to enhance the role of Matera as a city leading to the Mediterranean. The programme is linked to the role of Matera as the European Capital of Culture that has been recognised for 2019. Article 7-f intervenes on the anti-mafia code to allow the destination of companies confiscated from crime or individual business assets to territorial authorities. Finally, Article 7-novies introduces amendments to the provisions of the last budget law establishing a new measure to increase the depreciation of high-tech goods by 150%, Industry 4.0. That concludes my report and I thank my fellow Members for their attention. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u33	We greet a delegation from the Municipality of Campodarsego, in the province of Padua, who is attending our work. [[Applause]] We also greet a representation of students and teachers of the State Institute of Higher Education • Vincenzo Capirola • of Leno, in the province of Brescia, which is today visiting the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u34	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u35	Madam President, we are discussing a measure that speaks of social and territorial cohesion and of the Mezzogiorno, an ancient issue. The rapporteur has told us that he does not have an organic approach but, if I recall correctly, he spoke about the southern issue in Gramsci exactly 90 years ago and, therefore, we are talking about an ancient history that is always the same as itself. Perhaps we should have the courage to really tackle the problems affecting the Mezzogiorno, because there are many historical reasons and things that have not been done. Entering, however, in detail, we could speak of only three articles of the provision to our examination and precisely of article 2, which speaks of the situation of the sewers, of article 4, that it speaks of the ports of Gioia Tauro and Taranto, and of article 7 that it treats the G7. Article 2 speaks of sewage and purification systems and states that we must make a single Commissioner who focuses on himself the powers of the extraordinary commissioners. It is very strange that this should be done, because we do not respect certain European directives. But it will be good to explain what is the directive that we do not respect, namely No 271 of 1991 which, by the year 2000, provided that all sewage and sewage systems should be adapted. It is 2017: the policy of the extraordinary commissioners has failed and we appoint a beautiful single central commissioner to whom the Regions give money to manage the operation. This does not seem to me to be the way to deal with the problems, giving all the powers to an extraordinary commissioner who will also have to manage the funds of the regions. And this is very interesting if you consider that then everything passes through the Ministry of the Environment. It is an old story that everyone knows: we do not understand why the Ministry of the Environment deals with infrastructure and, in the specific case, sewage and purification infrastructure. Perhaps when the Ministry of the Environment was set up, it was necessary to give him some money so that he could manage economic resources. It is a historical problem, well known by those in charge of the Ministry of the Environment. And let's remember some characters who did the good and bad time in that Ministry: I think one was the director Mascazzini. But this is another story that is well known to those who have worked with the Ministry of the Environment. In article 4 we speak of the ports of Goia Tauro and Taranto, that is the ports transhipment. Well, what do we do with this arrangement? Let's go back to 1994. Modernism is linked to the ancient; but if we did so in a good way, there would be nothing to say. We, on the other hand, go back to the ancient in the wrong way. Law No. 84 of 1994 was a reform that tried to solve problems. But, since we have not solved them, we create a job administration agency owned by the port authority. The 400 workers in the port of Gioia Tauro and the port of Taranto must undoubtedly be protected, but we use a wrong instrument to do so. And this is a constant, a continuous repetition: it is a wrong approach in the way of reasoning, which is neither correct nor in accordance with the collective interest. In the port of Gioia Tauro we have a concession that expires in 2043 with a single dealership: we have given all the port to a single dealership. What's the situation here? We gave the port with the highest fishing that exists in Italy to a single concessionaire, that it has made great volumes; then the Egyptian and Algerian ports have taken over and we have gone in crisis. The same happened in Taranto with Piraeus. What is this way of dealing with things? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please conclude. CIOFFI (M5S). I finish with the G7, which was decided in June 2016: to appoint the commissioner we had to wait January 2017 and now the Government, guilty of the delay in the appointment, tells us that we go by way of derogation from the code of procurement wanted by the Government itself because we cannot do the works. Maybe you should have a sense of modesty. Despite all these critical issues, there are also interesting aspects of which, however, other colleagues will discuss. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Liuzzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u37	Madam President, this decree-law confirms the conviction - not only of Parliament, but of the whole country - that the Mezzogiorno has disappeared from the government's agenda. The measure will not help to boost the stagnant economy of the South; Indeed, it will be a further missed opportunity for that revival of the productive structure and the provision of services, beginning with the tourist and cultural ones, in the South. Alas, it intervenes not systemic but punctually, in the sense that it provides resources for some sites, for some areas of the country, and leaves all the rest of the Southern; it deals with welfare economy in Taranto, meeting the strong, dramatic employment situation of the ILVA area, making available funds to avoid layoffs, resorting to the Cassa Integrazione and earnings for some thousands of workers. Bad news is still raining on the whole of Europe's largest iron and steel hub; never good new solutions, never solutions of general importance, offering to the 12,000 direct workers and as many employees of the diffused induced solutions that revive the hope of the families affected in the deepest affections. Taranto remains unsolved the question of the credits boasted from the road haulage companies that, in the last decade, have provided performances in favor of the ILVA, but they have not been paid because of the ruinous situation of cash of the plant. Remember that it always rains in the wet, when the rejection by the judicial authority of the plea proposed by the Riva family de facto alienates the acquisition to the budget of the State of the large sums destined for the reclamation and to satisfy the creditors. What will be the consequences of this rejection? The young people of the Mezzogiorno are being dismayed at all this, they are living in a state of resignation and torpor, states of mind that do not help the southern youth to recover the energy necessary for the redemption and the vindication of the many merits that the South can boast, starting from the quality of human relations, the defence of values, traditions and the excellent results in education and professional and working skills. Government and majority rejected an amendment tabled to the House by Mr Palese, Head of Management of Italy, which extended the terms of use of EUR 49 million in favour of the University of Salento; money that will no longer facilitate technological innovation at that university, the quality of university studies and the better infrastructure of the departments. Mr. Minister, this bill does not go to the rescue of these expectations. It gives little resources, distributed badly; it comes as a manna for some places (see the European School of Brindisi and Matera to honour the expectations of the European Capital of Culture 2019) and leaves the rest of the territories to dry mouth. Minister, I sincerely regret to denounce all this and to witness the undoing of the nation and to the fact that I cannot convince the ruling class of its party, the PD, to abandon the mad race to the gloomy dissolves in order to finally get a good buzz to face the real emergencies of the country: from banks to the suffering credit, from the occupation that does not take off to the enterprises mortified by the measures to zigzag, from the excessive tax burden that weighs on companies, families and professionals, to the public debt that runs on course of the neck. Mr Minister, the PD keeps the handbrake on the action of the Gentiloni Government and the Mezzogiorno pays for it. We'd say goodbye midday, see you next time! [[Applause from the CoR Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u38	Senator Puglia is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u39	Madam President, when I read the title of this measure, I said the word 'finally' because it says 'urgent action for social and territorial cohesion', with particular reference to critical situations in certain areas of the Mezzogiorno. We are talking about critical situations, but the Mezzogiorno has been all critical since we decided to unify. It has become all critical, because we had the most flourishing industries and currently we find ourselves with no more anything. At the time, I expected much more robust measures from this Government and nothing: only extraordinary and momentary interventions. Nothing for companies and nothing for small and medium-sized enterprises. I expected a total reduction of the IRAP, finally stable: Nothing. I expected the restoration of the legislation that you wanted to abolish, namely that - technically contained in Law No 407 of 1990 - which gave the opportunity to employers who assumed, precisely in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, to obtain discounts. It was a fundamental law. You wanted to abolish it and replace it with the jobs act and we saw what happened to it. I expected something on the subject of school dispersal in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. I expected a robust intervention and, on the other hand, you rejected our proposals on this very subject. Let us remember that if we really want to combat the mafia, the Camorra and the many mafias, we must start from culture, education and our young people. But nothing: only commercial measures. We have the sea, the sun, the mandolin and the glimmer, we have what could really make the difference, that is, tourism. We have an artistic and cultural heritage, but also architectural and especially archaeological envied all over the world. In our areas there is Pompeii, known all over the world, and also Torre Annunziata, Torre del Greco, Ercolano, the Reggia of Portici and Castellammare di Stabia. I really cannot understand why there is nothing in the measure under consideration. In our territory we have the gold, but this Government is blind and - I repeat - there is nothing in the measure that can really give our small and medium-sized enterprises the necessary boost to finally be able to increase employment, especially in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. I also expected something to solve the problems related to the so-called Land of Fires, which identifies areas where heaps of waste are stored without being controlled. 18.14 (Followed by Mr Puglia). Our territory would have to receive financial resources to help us deal with the problem. However, this government, while advertising on television the allocation of resources and committing itself to solving the problem of the Land of Fires, has then silenced the money in favor of Expo 2015. And we have seen what happened to the resources and also the investigation that currently involves those who managed that event, today made by the Democratic Party the mayor of a great Italian city, Milan. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I look at this measure and I say to myself: first the citizens kick you out and no longer vote for you, first we free the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Candiani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u40	Senator Campanella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Anglo-Saxons make a distinction between politics, which they call politics, and sectoral policies, which they call policy. The problem that emerges from the analysis of the measure in question lies in the lack of policy or, at least, in the incorrectness of the fundamental choice. We of the Italian Left are the only force in Parliament that is consistently opposed to the neoliberal vision that forces this Government - and all the governments that will be guided by the same vision - to a management in an overall compatibility of a budget that must be brought back into a fairy tale balance, so unattainable. The measure before us attacks some problems and in some cases the interventions are also interesting and not poorly done. There is, however, a lack of a decisive fundamental vision. The South - as other colleagues have pointed out before me - needs a comprehensive strategy and intervention. On the contrary, once again, we expect a series of punctual interventions, sutures, which produces a sewn tissue here and there, a sort of patchwork, which solves the individual symptoms but leaves the disease unchanged. Some improvements have been introduced in the Chamber - including with the participation of the Italian Left Group. But, overall, alongside some measures that can also be appreciated - I think, for example, of the measures relating to the health funds of the city of Taranto or the allocation of additional resources to supplement the treatment of Cassa Integrazione gains extraordinary for the employees of the ILVA - there is no underlying plot. We can say that the Government has once again missed an opportunity to propose to Parliament and the country a real organic project for the South, providing for interventions of a more structural nature, also urgent and improcrastinable, and not only to fill the asymmetries and delays that have worsened in the crisis, but also to consolidate and make not episodic the modest signs of recovery recorded since 2015, in a context of persistent fragility of the southern production system and real social emergency. I remember on this occasion that in large cities of the South - I think of Messina, as I have denounced several times - the administration of drinking water is discontinuous, random: it is enough that it rains because the aqueduct that brings water to the city of Messina enters into crisis and the administration becomes random, luckily. Messina was a week, ten days without water. But also other great cities in Sicily - I think of Agrigento - receive the water "a fortune" and, among other things, the dearest pagan. The economic situation of the whole of the Mezzogiorno requires an overall project, a national strategy for recovery. And these considerations have also been brought to Parliament by the SVIMEZ audit in the Budget Committee, which noted that, only through the adoption of a national policy for the South, will it be possible to intervene to reduce the current gap, as well as to overcome the structural weaknesses of the entire country. The South, in fact, is not only a problem for the South: the economic and infrastructural backwardness in which the South is maintained is a problem for the whole country. The announcement effect that the previous Government had used to us - I am thinking of the Masterplan for the Mezzogiorno - cannot solve the problems of southern Italy. The South needs a new industrial policy, public services, school, university, justice administration, to achieve general and specific objectives. We do not need interventions as imaginative as they are harmful, such as the Bridge on the Strait. We need an organic strategy, based on the development of public investment, to realize, above all, small useful works and also social infrastructure interventions. We need an ordinary industrial policy, in addition to the temporary and limited tax reductions, which are often useless and ineffective, given to companies and which have not produced significant results. You see, the resources for the Mezzogiorno, and not just those for European funds, have, among other things, been constantly reduced. The pacts signed with the Southern Regions are not enough; there are no measures of wide scope and impact on the medium and long term. We have repeated several times in this House that there is a policy that works, the one that thinks of the next generations, not the one that thinks of the next elections. Even the CGIL, in its hearing, has emphasized strongly how, without a robust growth of the Mezzogiorno, there is no possibility of inversion of the economic cycle. And the measures contained in this decree-law respond to points, to pieces, rhapsodically could be said, only to some contingent and improcrastinable urgencys. The need for an overall policy and an overall industrial, environmental and social framework is disappointed. Uncertainty reigns over ILVA, because the planned transfer to third parties undergoes further movement over time. 5,000 workers are put into the fund and the environmental plan is not yet known. For now the only resources available are those of the State, while those of the Riva family are not yet available. We are in the presence of a plan and a dramatic picture from the environmental point of view, but also health and employment, which remains essentially unchanged. However, alongside these negativity, it must be said that there are 50 (plus 20) million euros for Taranto's health care. It is also interesting that the Fund should increase by 50 million for non-self-sufficiency, but it is still limited resources, which respond very partially to the tragedy of the disabled, the elderly and families. The great theme of absolute poverty in our country has dramatically increased in recent years and, in front of it, these interventions appear absolutely partial and therefore overall ineffective. Now, I would like to stress that the Italian Left Group has seen the approval of an additional amendment to the House which intervenes directly on the allocation of capital resources in favour of the regions of the Mezzogiorno, also in the light of the findings emerged during the hearing of the representative of the SVIMEZ, providing in particular a mechanism that, once implemented, should allow, in the mix between additional resources and ordinary resources, the southern regions to fill the gap compared to the other areas of the Country. Anyway, to conclude, that's what I was saying at the beginning. Along with some rules that are important and necessary, we see some other questionable ones, such as those related to interventions functional to the preparation and organization of the Italian presidency of the G7 in 2017. However, the expectation of an organic measure, which has been lacking for too long, despite the announcements of masterplans to face the social and economic situation of great suffering in the Mezzogiorno, is still disappointed. Therefore, if the measure were to maintain these characteristics, we can only abstain, taking into account what is positive (as I said before), because of the absence of a push to solve the problems of the Mezzogiorno, which are not made up of individual points or individual criticalities. [[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u42	Senator Tarquinio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u43	Mr President, we are faced with the usual problem of the Mezzogiorno over a decade. However, as my colleague said earlier, this problem is never seriously addressed. We are moving forward with buffer measures, but this has been happening for decades and I am not accusing this government of it. For decades the problem has been dealt with in a completely wrong way, not understanding what the Mezzogiorno means for this country and not seeing the problems for those who are. In the meantime, delays are accumulated on delays and problems on problems. Many years ago, in fact, the Mezzogiorno lacked infrastructure and today the infrastructure has remained the same. Nothing is done to overcome the gap with the North, which is necessary for the North itself. As my colleague said, if the Mezzogiorno does not grow, neither does Italy: the lack of growth in the Mezzogiorno is crippling the growth in Northern Italy. This is the real fact and, when we learn it we all seem to want to jump in the chair, trying to talk about the problems of purifiers and fines paid in 2016 (€62.7 million) or the 364,000 euros of fines per day. We are concerned to replace the commissioners by putting only one, but we are always at the same point: we do not want to face a huge and serious problem, which has to be taken from the chest (as we had to face the hydrogeological and seismic emergencies of this country, imagining that an effort of that type would have positive effects on GDP). Instead, you let it all flow like this. Let's hit Taranto. We give 70 million to health care to buy the machinery forgetting that in the meantime the Puglia Region closes the hospitals and you do not know therefore these machinery where they will go. Let us forget, among many things, the crisis of the ports that is enormous and for which nothing is done. If you don't create special economic zones that make that port attractive, where are we going? This happens in every country in Europe and in the world. With all respect for the Mezzogiorno and for all of us, the colleague who spoke earlier missed the most important topic: the Mezzogiorno will never be able to grow if the problem of crime is not seriously addressed, if the State will not be present everywhere and in any case, if the State will not guarantee with men, means and endowments the forces of the Police and the Carabinieri. If this is not the case, the Mezzogiorno will not grow because the cancer of the South Mafia is - and I say it from the south and I repeat it all the time - but the State is not there; this is the drama, and it is not mainly there in the last fifteen years. Maybe he was there before. You always think only of the mafia (it's mafia everything) but here organized crime is worse than the mafia, this is the real fact, but nothing happens and we pretend. We give tips that then someone also handles in the wrong way, not solving any problems and increasing the anger of the people. Where are we gonna end up at some point? The southern people are used to putting up with everything, often even to being little diligent, but if they "explode" then no one controls it anymore, as will happen if the entire nation explodes on other problems. We don't pose these problems and we don't deal with them. Nobody needs these tips. The problems in this country are at a point of no return to the whole of Italy and, even more so, to the Mezzogiorno; or we face them with everything that entails or is wasted only time. These interventions, with which Tizio and Caio are satisfied for their regional or provincial reality, are of no use. We see that the state machine with the various commissioners does not work and that the substitute powers that have been given to you serve only to overcome obstacles that, often daringly, pose the same local administrations. Why don't we tell each other? Why must there not be a virtuous fact at national level to move forward in the real public works needed? We do not do all this; we play with the various useless balances and we do not face the problem for what it is: the problem of the Mezzogiorno is of the whole of Italy and pulls down the whole of Italy. This is the real fact; let us then complain about what happens. From the south I say all this. I was not born in Milan, but in Foggia: I am Apulian and I am not called out of all this, but how can I not denounce these things? There are many shortcomings, often because who should investigate, if there is no politician in the middle, let alone because it is not urgent. This is serious, too. This is a country that must carry out an examination within each institution. Things don't go everywhere; there's no one who's perfect and there's no one who can say that absolutions don't exist: they're all guilty. This also applies within the body in which you exercise, Minister. We do not realize all this and we each do the comedy of who is the best and who is the dirtiest. The dirtiest in the end are all of us if we do not have the courage to say things for what they are and face the problems of this country, beyond the political parts, because the faction is the one that does more and more harm. Italy needs all of us without factions, and we're wrong if we don't do this. As far as the Mezzogiorno is concerned, or this Government - and I have already said before that there are decades of serious fuss on this issue, so I do not make any specific accusations - addresses the issue seriously and with the awareness of all, starting first of all from the fight against crime, infrastructure and everything else, or we make fun of it. For this reason, apart from any consideration, for my part - I do not commit the Group because it will express those who speak in an explanation of vote - I do not think it is possible to vote on such a measure. [[Applause from the CoR Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u44	Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u45	Mr President, this measure has been referred to as a decree-law that has had a rather courageous line in becoming something different with the changes that had been made. There has been talk of a large-scale decree-law, but it is clear that the individual initiatives with the related appropriations on ILVA, Taranto area, Gioia Tauro, waste water purification, G7 of Taormina, European School of Brindisi, do not allow in the most absolute way to justify the emphasis with which the Gentiloni Government claims to have brought the Mezzogiorno back on the agenda as a priority theme. We would not want this measure to be dreamed of and thought of by someone like the new Marshall Plan for the South. Actually, President Tonini has already largely watered down its claims in his exposition. The former Premier had dreamed of a Ministry for the Mezzogiorno entirely dedicated, as he had said, to the revival of employment and industry; a Ministry able to fight in Europe (with results that so far has certainly "sucked"), untied the co-financing of the plan 2014-2020 from the stakes of the Stability Pact, at least with regard to the investments of the Regions. The Ministry for the South, without an overall reasoning and vision, is a cathedral in the desert that we would have liked to have done without. But why - this is the question that comes to us every time we read the title of a measure - do you not title it based on the issues that are contained within the measure itself? The problems of the South - we have mentioned a few earlier - are dealt with in various ways with a little money, with a few tips, but the real problems are others, President: post-industrial unemployment, urban degradation, mafias running world-wide affairs and the illegal and submerged economy. When money arrived for the South, they never went to people and citizens; they only increased clientelism without creating a viable and free economy. The quality of life is increasingly poor: look at the rankings and check if you find a city in the Mezzogiorno in the top ten or twenty places. As for hospitals, 70 million euros are allocated but then the hospitals in the South are missing even the litters and there is no place to put the sick, who are hospitalized on the ground. There is environmental degradation (the land of fires teaches), but there has been no force in these three or four years to build a heat-to-energy plant to solve the waste problem. As far as black work is concerned, vouchers have only increased this form of low attention to young people. I read - to say something nice, Minister - that we do the Festival in Sanremo, land of flowers yes but not of music, and instead probably this festival should be done in Naples; but Naples and Palermo are not considered cities of art. This lack of attention, in my opinion, gives the very negative idea of the possibility that the South can be relaunched with politics. Then there is the art of settling down and the provision under consideration is actually somewhat arranged. As I said earlier, there are tips and tips for situations that you have not had the strength and courage to face in the budget law. You removed them from the budget law, because you couldn't deal with them, and you "threw them" into the measure under consideration. We saw the former President of the Council sign agreements with the Presidents of the South Regions - the famous pacts - and we would have liked to see the results. It seems to me that there is little flesh in the fire and lots of smoke. Perhaps it was electoral propaganda, which went quite badly, given the results of the constitutional referendum on 4 December. The Central and South Regions are all administered by your governors, colleagues of the majority, and in some of them you have not even managed to spend the money from the Structural Funds. The unemployment rate for young people between the ages of 15 and 24 in the Mezzogiorno is around 60% and has never been so high. These figures go hand in hand with the EUR 10 billion that went up in smoke, Mr President, resulting from the loss of GDP in relation to Ilva. The slowing down of the steel works, for which you have allocated some money (but we are at the twelfth or thirteenth measure) caused between 2013 and 2015 a dry loss of gross fixed capital formation of €2.19 billion. Less money and less technology in our production activities: this is the end result, with foreign competitors who have entered like a blade in butter, with an increase in steel imports from abroad of 1.78 billion euros. The measure is now being discussed, with four, five or six points, a bit like a leopard, which have tried to tackle the most disparate initiatives, without any general strategy, no coordination and no vision for the future. Well, if the future is not the problem of this Government, gentlemen, we believe that this Government should not have a future. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Companione. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u47	Mr President, the measure we are debating today has a very demanding and high-quality title, because when we talk about Mezzogiorno and territorial cohesion, we are certainly talking about an issue that refers to the southern issue, as has been said several times, and to the many years of history and politics that are essentially bankrupt on this issue. It burns us that even these last years of legislature have passed in vain, despite having invoked on several occasions not " spot" measures for the Mezzogiorno, but an extraordinary plan of equalization, which aims to guarantee the reduction of the development gap that still lasts between North and South of the country and that, under the thrust of the global crisis, has further widened its scissors. The statistical data available to us (I am referring to those of SVIMEZ) tell us of a timid recovery of the South, of a small reversal of trend that does not, however, present the characteristics of stability, but those most worrying of the occasional conjuncture, of the exceptionality, not supported by precise political choices. We must say and be aware that the modest signs of recovery in the South do not weaken the dramatic context of a profound and unresolved social emergency and a persistent structural fragility. The productive potential of the South is still weak due to the global crisis and the positive peaks are concentrated only in some productive niches. The major structural and competitiveness problems persist. To break the long spiral of low productivity, low growth and therefore less well-being for citizens requires good policy. This is what politics should do, being born to manage the lives of men, with an action that should be conscious, determined and effective, to serve people and improve their living conditions: this is the problem of problems. Today, every day, we are overwhelmed by this pseudo-information, by a thousand issues often linked to particular party events, gossip and a whole series of things that have nothing to do with the most important problem of all. In our opinion, the only major problem today is youth unemployment: this is the problem of the problems that we should strive to combat in every way. I am also thinking of the issue of social security and the correct, intelligent and orderly management of migration flows. These two major problems, which should occupy the debate every day on TV and in Parliament, would suffice and advance to discuss and try to find long-term solutions, not final but at least lasting. We have said several times and we still reiterate today that it is an absolute priority to relaunch the country starting from the South, where the social estate of many territorial realities is largely compromised: as we know, in many parts the State can hardly manage the territory. To be specific, as many colleagues have said, the Mezzogiorno does not need any rules and sectoral measures, and this is the real problem of the measure under consideration. Sectoral interventions with leopard stain or spot rules such as those contained in the decree-law in question are not enough; as well as no rules are needed to increase the flexibility of fixed-term recruitment if companies are so exhausted that they are unable to hire anyone (either for a fixed-term or an indefinite period). This measure does not in any way address the causes of the gap, nor the causes of unemployment, which is really the biggest emergency in the Mezzogiorno today, as we have said. Of course, the text contains some good intervention, such as the increase in resources for the Cohesion Fund and the introduction of the principle of differential allocation of additional resources in the territories of the South; the forecasts for large-scale environmental subsidies, the 100 million redevelopment of cancer radiotherapy technologies, but these provisions are irrelevant to the territorial cohesion of the Mezzogiorno. Beyond these punctual and mainly localistic provisions, there is no overall strategy. The interventions that we are examining today could only be of some effectiveness if we move in a different context of normality, only if the economic emergency of the South had not intertwined with that social emergency that has become civil and to deal with which it is not enough some fast recipe smuggled as a decisive intervention; instead we need overall policies for the work and solidarity that can truly compensate the effects of the crisis contrasting the structural inequalities that in fact hinder the real recovery of the country. Of course, we note that the Gentiloni Government has felt the need to finally equip itself with a Ministry for Territorial Cohesion and the Mezzogiorno and therefore we hope that this means the acquisition for the Government of the concept of the dignity of the Mezzogiorno. If so, the government cannot close its eyes and pretend that this territorial dualism of the labour market does not exist, a dualism all the more dangerous when it becomes generational dualism, since the young people themselves are suffering the greatest repercussions of this situation which has been going on for several years now. Italy is in fact too unequal to grow and even the distribution of families is different depending on the territorial areas. In fact, in the Centre-North one in two families is located in the two richest fifths, in the South instead more frequently families belong to the two poorest fifths. The challenge is therefore that of a real and strong recovery in investment, which in the South means to have additionality, an essential condition to make both that master plan for the Mezzogiorno and the Pacts for the South really effective instruments that do not resolve in the mere reconnaissance of the works. In fact, the strategic nature of the measures to be coordinated with the various sources of funding, not only European, but above all with general ordinary policies, which have so far been the real weakness of the policies in the Mezzogiorno, must be accentuated. Alongside the relaunch of a renewed industrial policy specific to the Mezzogiorno, it is necessary to invest in logistics, infrastructure, energy, territory, human capital, agriculture and culture, thus overturning the peripherality of the South. It is necessary to make the territory "attractive" by boosting its competitiveness. These policies must look at the basic objectives that I have already mentioned, first of all to reduce inequalities, combating poverty, combating youth unemployment, at this time the cancer of our society, the great problem that makes families and young people unhappy, unable to achieve their own existence and their own lives. In short, all the opposite of what good policy should do. Domestic demand needs to be re-launched and effective protection of citizenship rights throughout the national territory must be ensured in a uniform manner. In the absence of such a strategy, we will always find ourselves in the presence of small cabotage operations and of little substance. The micro-interventions do not serve, as well as remain anchored to an emergency legislation: it manifests only the short gaze of the Government, which does not see far, that does not look at the prospects of development of the Country, that forgets how only radical and courageous interventions of territorial cohesion are the only ones that can found a recovery of our country truly lasting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to begin by recalling, first of all, the title of the Decree-Law which, in accordance with the rules contained therein, contains urgent measures for social and territorial cohesion, with particular reference to critical situations in certain areas of the Mezzogiorno, and not the whole Mezzogiorno. As stated several times by the Government, but it is good to reiterate it in order to have clarity in this regard, it is not, therefore, an intervention of necessity and urgency that affects, in general, the South but, on the contrary, an intervention that deals with some specific issues, well identified, which required emergency interventions. The decree-law, therefore, addresses some issues, however of absolute primary importance, which, although specific, can be framed within a scheme and a larger design, aimed at relaunching specific strategies for the Mezzogiorno and, consequently, for our country. The most striking and evident concrete symbol that the Gentiloni Government, in continuity with that Renzi, aims to give the utmost attention to the South can be derived from the establishment of a Dicastery dedicated to social cohesion, territorial cohesion and the Mezzogiorno. This Ministry has a fundamental, very important task: it must monitor the implementation and success of the pacts for the South, on the basis of a general action plan (the so-called masterplan) based on dialogue and listening to the primary needs of citizens and local communities and, then, to make shared choices. In fact, it is with the continuous and constant interaction between Rome and the territorial administrations that those fundamental objectives can be achieved that pass from the identification of priorities to the concrete capacities of response that can be given to the problems of the different territories. We start right there: from the dialogue with Regions, metropolitan cities and municipalities, that is the entities that are closest to the citizens, those bodies of proximity so important. It is with them that the central government, and in particular the Ministry entrusted to Mr De Vincenti, must find the necessary interaction to make appropriate choices. It seems to me, however, because of the importance of the decree-law in question, that we have started on the right foot, with a view to an intervention that affects many aspects essential for social and territorial cohesion. I would like to stress this point. It is a change of look: no longer those measures that fell from above and that, in some way, were spent in a strange way or, however, emerging also at the level of the local authorities, but something concerted, shared, in terms of listening and reception. I begin only with brief notes, because the provision is very important, from what concerns Ilva. First of all, I would like to point out that in the decree-law issued by the Commission there is an appropriation of 70 million specifics, which are added to the others already intended for health and the environment for the city of Taranto, dedicated to the purchase of advanced medical-diagnostic equipment that allow to meet the needs of local health. 100 million were also reserved for all regions of the South - Abruzzo, Molise, Puglia, Campania, Calabria, Basilicata, Sicily and Sardinia - for radiology and oncology diagnostic equipment. Through the approval of interventions aimed at the technological modernization of the equipment of the sanitary structures, such as those provided for in Articles 1 and 5-a of the decree-law in conversion, it is also intended to allow a more effective and useful organization of the services, with particular reference, also, to interventions that must concern the training and professional updating of the health personnel. In this way, therapies used in the South can be made more homogeneous, according to the latest scientific evidence, reducing, however, the journeys of hope that cost patients and their families so much effort and result in so much waste of public money for interregional mobility. Still: 30 million are allocated to support and support programmes for disadvantaged families in the Taranto area: these are inclusion and integration interventions in territories to which the State must look with a double perspective: environmental rehabilitation of the ILVA and environmental redevelopment of the city of Taranto, with particular regard to the health of the citizens, and maintaining employment levels. This is, of course, one of the main challenges facing the measure. These are resources, it is worth repeating, which add to a number of speeches, as has also been mentioned by some Members in this House, already implemented by this Government, the former and by Parliament, during this parliamentary term. I now want to make a nod, as other colleagues have done, to waste water. As we know, unfortunately, from European infringement procedures, it is essential that the measure deals with the question of the delays of our country in the matter of purification: there are serious critical issues in many areas of the South and, as is well known, there are, unfortunately, very negative consequences to this related to health and, therefore, on the quality of life of citizens and citizens. I also very much liked the part relating to the use of confiscated property and their making available by local authorities for social purposes. Very often the local authorities, the municipalities, have no space available and have to face additional expenses for social emergencies that are always increasing. Well, this measure will also allow the use of the goods of companies that are in the smell of organized underworld. Finally, last but not least, it is worth stressing Article 7 of the decree-law on the next G7 to be held in Taormina for the purpose of speeding up the administrative procedures necessary for the organization of the event, in full compliance with the principle of transparency. Properly equip Taormina to host the G7 is an issue that affects not only Sicily but all Italy. That such an event takes place in Sicily highlights the clear will of the Government to give the island, and therefore the whole South, a new and renewed centrality, in the European and international context. In fact, without a restart of the South, in the front line daily, for example - I would like to remind you - on the emergency immigration and burdened today by a no less serious occupational emergency especially among young people, our country does not start again, which cannot be without a general policy for the Mezzogiorno. I want to point out that this policy took shape with the masterplan launched by the Renzi Government a year and a half ago that gave birth to the pacts for the South with the eight Regions and the seven metropolitan cities involved, to which must be added the institutional contract of development for Taranto. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to add a note of controversy, but I have listened to the debate in this House and many of you have complained about this measure. I ask myself, in the past twenty years, who has governed this country, what has it done since it has completely forgotten about the South? And now we are shocked because these measures are not enough. In the meantime they are a start and there will be a continuum. I said at the beginning of my speech that the measure in our examination concerns certain regional emergencies in the South, some of them: it is not the plan of the Mezzogiorno, it is a matter of urgency. Actually I am surprised if I think that those who have been sitting in this House for so many years as in the other Chamber, representing the country for so many years with the largest majorities possible, have never really been concerned about this South. I say, then, that the step has changed; it has been seen that there is an attention of the previous and current Government, of the Renzi Government as of the Gentiloni Government: the presence of the Minister representing territorial cohesion and the Mezzogiorno shows a change of pace. It is a different will and I like that this is combined with listening, attention and monitoring, because what is written in the masterplan is not the book of dreams but concrete realities that must be realized and realized. In this respect, it is up to all of us to stimulate the representatives of our Municipalities, our political side. All of us, at institutional level, must go to check the great potential that can be found in this act as in other measures that have concerned the South. The same 100 million that we talked about earlier go to revise, to enrich those often obsolete technologies that there are in the South. It is true that there are difficulties in health; we know or have seen this in the Health Commission so many times; unfortunately, there are still serious disparities between North and South, a gap that increases. This, however, is a sign, the beginning of a path. Let us, then, take the good that we see in this measure and continue to work with commitment and determination, without recriminating but looking forward. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Gualdani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u50	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for years the Mezzogiorno has been debilitated by the government agenda, which has kept it in line with the priorities of this country. In this parliamentary term, however, an important change has been made in terms of methodology and culture. The majority took responsibility for restoring political dignity to the southern issue. As my colleague also said, in this parliamentary term the blindfold has finally been removed and we are trying to work even taking into account the serious problems afflicting the Mezzogiorno. It has been done in new and innovative terms, and the masterplan has declined new logics: no longer to indulge dynamics of the lament, but a impulse, a stimulus to do more. Pacts have been signed covering all the southern regions and metropolitan cities of this area and, as a result, in the coming years, resources of €95 billion will be moved for infrastructure, environment, culture, social cohesion, promotion of economic activities and agriculture. I would say that it is not small: I challenge anyone to bring this data in reference to past governments. We will, therefore, have important appointments, such as Palermo Italian capital of culture for the year 2018, which will bring the appointment of Matera European capital of culture for the year 2019. We know that culture is a very important variable for the revival and development of the South. It is the largest field of energy and potential available to us and, unfortunately, is largely underused. Pompeii's example shows us that much can be done from this point of view, and I am convinced that Palermo's is a strategic challenge precisely to relaunch culture as an asset for development. Networking museums, beauties, historical, naturalistic and environmental heritage is essential for a country like Italy, but especially for the Mezzogiorno. We are objectively in a new phase, in which everyone is called to assume their responsibilities, and the Government is doing so in an important way. The decree-law in question contains a series of urgent measures for social and territorial cohesion and to deal with critical issues affecting areas of the Mezzogiorno, providing for interventions that combine environment and employment. From Ilva to the health network, action is taken to ensure a rapid adaptation to the sentences of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 2012 and 2014 and to avoid the worsening of infringement procedures in place, through interventions on waste water collection, sewering and purification systems: an objective that is pursued by entrusting the tasks of coordination and implementation of the aforementioned interventions to a single extraordinary commissioner of the Government, in place of the previous commissioners appointed by the release Italy. It is a measure not to be underestimated. It is a critical issue that is also directly linked to the promotion of our coasts of extraordinary beauty. We need to strengthen the tourist attraction of our sea, which is currently undersized. One of the causes is certainly due to the lack of waste water purification. There are then measures related to the portualità that aim to offer support to the ways of the sea, that they concern in particular the ports of the Mezzogiorno and that they allow to the reform of the harbour system to be still more efficient after the process of rationalization of the harbour authorities. Then there is the part dedicated to the G7 of Taormina. This event, of undisputed value for Italy, also in relation to the current world geopolitical moment and to the scenarios that are expected for the near future, will have as a showcase of Italy for the whole world a location of extraordinary beauty. Taormina will be the epicenter of the world, and we, also taking advantage of the critical issues that have emerged in the past, must ensure that the preparation of this event can take place with transparency and efficiency. The government has set up a regulatory framework that responds to this priority, in which also urgency and necessity do not constitute shadow areas in which, unfortunately, in the past we have seen viruses nesting that have affected the image of our country. We therefore look with absolute seriousness at this important appointment that will see the protagonist of our country and also Sicily. Then there are also other measures that are of certain importance and impact, also from a social point of view. I am thinking, for example, of the increase in resources for the Non-Sufficiencies Fund or measures relating to social cohesion. The South is certainly an issue which cannot be reduced to the number of appropriations or resources allocated. The Mezzogiorno is, above all, a political issue that involves the responsibility of the ruling classes at all levels, from the central to the peripheral and the local. It is in this framework that this provision must be inserted, which is not a collage of emergencies, but, in some way, shows that the first real measure of the Gentiloni Government has addressed precisely the criticalities of this vast macro area that has eight Regions and more than 20 million inhabitants. We know that there are enormous problems in it, starting from the fact that over a third of the population lives in poverty, that there is the lowest number of working people employed there, that the number of women working is far from the European objectives, that there is a young emergency and that youth migration deprives us of intelligence and also of arms. The dowels of this provision show us that there is awareness of all this and that, if we try to prevent the closure of the ILVA, if we want to equip the South with harbour infrastructures and for the purification of the waters, if we want to continue on the recovery of urban areas like Bagnoli and invest on processes of urban regeneration and reclamation, and if, finally, we consider Taormina not only the center for a photo of the seven Presidents and the Prime Ministers of the most industrialized countries and we want to take on the fragility of a very important part of our Country, all this shows the will to guarantee a reversal of trend for the South. A Mezzogiorno no longer considered solely as the recipient of rain resources, but as the center of the new potential to be exploited for the rebirth of the country system.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u51	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Giovanni Pascoli" in Cormons, in the province of Gorizia, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u52	Mr President, I repeat that the effective titles used by this Government are always surprising. The Decree-Law under consideration contains urgent and necessary measures for social and territorial cohesion, with particular reference to critical situations in certain areas of the Mezzogiorno. And who might not agree to intervene on these issues? I am speaking above all to us who live in the Mezzogiorno. However, we need to read the data from SVIMEZ, which says that the South has grown half as much as Greece in the last 15 years. Now there is a slight recovery (from my point of view this is not even so true and then I will explain the reasons). In 2014 only 174,000 births were registered in the South, the minimum historical for over one hundred and fifty years. Youth unemployment in certain areas of the Mezzogiorno is well above 50%, while general unemployment is 15%. As I always repeat, these data - alas - are not even truthful, as by now ISTAT data also consider those who work a few days. I repeat and repeat until the boredom that considering a worker who works for a few days and is paid with vouchers is really something not worthy of this country. In addition to what I have just said, one thing that worries and should make everyone reflect is that within a few decades - it is estimated forty or fifty years - the inhabitants of the South will be 4.2 million less. In other words, 4.2 million people living in the South will be forced to emigrate. I come from Basilicata and there is something else that I have always said and that I will continue to repeat until boredom. Every year more than 3,000 young people leave their homes in Basilicata without returning. The dramatic nature of this choice lies not only in the fact that they leave their own land - this is a fact that should make them think - but that they do so in order perhaps to survive. This is what we are talking about, given how low the world of work has become. These figures should make all of us reflect, because they tell us that we need truly extraordinary measures to get the Mezzogiorno back on track. As has been said by many before me, the recovery of the Mezzogiorno would be useful for the whole country, carrying out a towing function. For example, what the South needs is an extraordinary plan for work and not for these commercials (I don't even know how to define them), which are just a little bit of oxygen. We need - I repeat - an extraordinary plan for work. Many often question where to take resources. On this subject too, I would like to repeat things that I have certainly already said. Consider, for example, the latest data. I do not want to talk about the EUR 20 billion given to the banks a few days ago, as it is before everyone's eyes. Nor of the 20 billion jobs act that have literally been given and that have produced no increase in employment, indeed. In front of the government representative, who I do not know if he has read the news of the last few days carefully, I would like to remind you that it is difficult for workers to go to the bathroom and that they are forced to urinate themselves. This is what - unfortunately - the jobs act has produced in the last period. Finally, I would like to mention the EUR 10 billion for the famous EUR 80 bonus. All in all, making a small addition, you get to 50 billion euros. This is a trial of guaranteed minimum income. I remember that on this subject the Italian Left component of the Mixed Group promoted four years ago the presentation of a bill of popular initiative - the only one of popular initiative - that the Government does not think to take into consideration. All of you say that we are in Europe; but if we are in the European Union, I do not understand why we have remained the only place, together with Greece (formerly Greece is already moving in this direction), that we do not want to adopt this European measure. You don't understand why. I have provided data; I usually do not report data because numbers are numbers, while I would like to talk about politics and I would like this Government to show some attention to the South. You have once again missed an opportunity to give dignity to a people. I - I repeat - come from Basilicata and provided data on youth emigration. I want to remind you that Basilicata is a region that now has a little more than 500,000 inhabitants, in which there are natural resources that perhaps do not have equals in Italy: I do not believe that there is another region so rich from this point of view. Instead, the government has known Basilicata only thanks to its oilmen friends - this must be said - who have left and are leaving only devastation in that territory. I want to repeat these things once again so that they remain in the record; I do not think that this Government will listen, because it has never done so far and I do not think that it will do so now, but I want at least these considerations to remain in the record. I think that the South deserves much more, especially another Government, attentive to these needs. We talked about Italy and Europe and I would like to remind you that the Mezzogiorno is part of Italy. The gap - even though the North is not doing well on the unemployment front - is widening exponentially. These are the reflections that must be made. On the Ilva spoke before me the companion and friend Bell who has already told everything. The question of the ILVA, which is always treated by this Government as an emergency, has been settled for three or four years now; in the meantime, 5,000 workers risk the Cassa Integrazione and until recently there were 1,000. These are the real facts, and we should all be concerned about this, the majority, who have the responsibility to deal with the issues, and the opposition, who should have the wisdom to try to ensure that they are placed on the agenda and to make specific points about them. Once again I have brought these demands; I hope - but from what you know you will put your trust again and we will not be able to discuss anything - that at least they will be accepted and that there will be attention, because the South really deserves so much and this Government, as always, pretends nothing. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u53	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the careful debate and intense participation, with all the full details, which are accompanying these speeches, show how the South is the protagonist of our political scene. I have to think that, at this point, he is a fugitive protagonist. [[Comments from the PD Group]] CARDINALI (PD). But do they talk to them? Nobody was here this morning. MORRA (M5S). In fact, this House is, as usual, giving the Mezzogiorno very little attention to define ludicrous. The South has disappeared, not only from the agenda of the Government, but also from the agenda of those who want to make investments in order to return to being productive a reality that, once, was important in the entire Mediterranean chessboard, managing, alone, to guarantee that social and territorial cohesion that embellishes the title of the decree-law in question. It seems appropriate to clarify at once that this is a measure that is going to put on patches; in fact, it is now for not know how long that, rather than aiming at social and territorial cohesion, the governments of the country are working to produce social, territorial laceration and, I add, Minister, generational. Mr Barozzino referred to the birth rate of the Mezzogiorno. These are impressive data: 2014 was the year in which in the Mezzogiorno there were fewer births than in the whole history of Unity. This already shows the level of intervention that needs to be done. But, while in these hours Alessandro Profumo is perhaps self-critical about the rescue of Monte dei Paschi di Siena and while just before it was remembered that 20 billion to save friends who have troubleed the banks are quickly and fury, we find very little to safeguard, where it is necessary, emergent situations or otherwise to move forward with the usual policy of blackmail, pull and spring, of the absence of programming. We are intervening, in accordance with Article 2, to remedy an issue for which we have been under infringement since the year 2000. Following a European directive of 1991, we who had to comply in 2000, today, in 2017, what do we do? Hear, hear: we are acting as commissioners and therefore we are setting up a single Commissioner, because perhaps all those who have worked so far have done wrong. Very well, I have been taught that there is the instrument of sanction. There are responsibilities. The wrong party has to pay. In these moments many Italians are crying, not to say laughing, of a Sicilian regional council member who manages his councilman in a petty and miserable way. All right, what do we do? Let us increase the Fund for non-self-sufficiency. All right, let's double, let's triple this fund, but let's make sure everything gets to who it's supposed to be. We have asked the House for, for example, the Fund to be allocated according to the number of eligible staff; this too has been avoided. Or, again: Joy Tauro. We must set up yet another agency for the administration of work. Very well, but it is a pity that the authority of the harbour system is not appointed and, consequently, 400 fathers of the family do not know of what death they will have to die. The South is collapsing. Then, of course, this is yet another buffer measure, because you have to make maquillage. Employment in the South has been declining for twenty-five years; compared with 1992, the South has lost about 10% of its workforce and 10% has been the increase recorded by the Centre-North. On this data the governments of all parties must assume their responsibilities. Of course, Southern citizens will also have to wake up, but they are. In Sicily, maybe in some time, we'll have some changes. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Boccardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are discussing this measure without the necessary tranquillity that we would have liked, because we are aware of the protests that have been created in recent days outside the Chamber and especially today outside the Chamber of Deputies, where we are getting news of the launches even of paper bombs and the offices of the law enforcement forces against demonstrators. I believe, first of all, that a strong call should be made to everyone to regain calm and to overcome divisions through dialogue. I have been given a few minutes for my speech and, in general, little time has been devoted to this measure. We do not even have time to enter into the debate, which we already read about the government's intention to put trust in the press agencies, thus preventing senators from correcting and improving the text in our examination. The Mezzogiorno is the main national issue still unresolved, but unfortunately the Government relegates it to a topic of outline, to which dedicate little attention and little time. The bill of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 243 of 29 December 2016, with urgent interventions for social and territorial cohesion, with particular reference to critical situations in some areas of the Mezzogiorno, in its content leaves us very perplexed and dissatisfied. Yet we have offered you several opportunities to improve the text. For example, we have proposed to adopt specific provisions on seasonal work by providing measures to protect employers who maintain employment levels by way of derogation. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are companies and businesses; there are entrepreneurs who remain in Italy, do not allow themselves to be attracted by the sirens of relocation, do not fire their employees, even in times of crisis like this, but sacrifice themselves with them in order to keep employment levels unchanged. I believe that these entrepreneurs deserve tax protection measures because they defend Italian production and, above all, Italian work. Another example is Article 7-c of the decree-law in question, which amends in part the tax credit rules for the purchase of new capital goods intended for production facilities in assisted areas in the Mezzogiorno regions, introduced by the law of stability 2016. We asked the government to take measures to predict that the tax credit will be extended to cover damage from rain or hail, including cover of fruit plantations, also in the light of the calamitous events that hit the Mezzogiorno and, in particular, Puglia, especially during 2016 and the first months of 2017. The bad weather has caused enormous damage to agriculture in the Mezzogiorno and we all know how important agriculture is for the development of the Mezzogiorno and yet the Government has proved insensitive by not accepting our amendment in favour of companies that, because of the bad weather, have seen the crops destroyed and irreparably damaged the cover of the plantations. The lack of approval of our amendment by the Government is unforgivable because the agricultural enterprises of the South are a model to be valorized and exported. Today's ISMEA-SVIMEZ relationship also says: they are younger and grow more than the rest of the country, with a 7.3 percent more in 2015 than the 1.6 of the Centre-North. It is agriculture that drives the GDP of the Mezzogiorno, which grows by 0.8%, while at the Centre-North it stops at 0.5. It is, therefore, a system to look at and which deserves incentives. South agricultural and food products are also growing in exports. Investment in agriculture and employment is also growing in the South, with more and more stable employment relationships in favour of young people. The weight of agricultural youth entrepreneurship is also growing: almost 20,000 companies led by young people in the South in early 2016. It is clear that agriculture is a sector with great potential in the Mezzogiorno, but we need measures dedicated to the first establishment and policies to support and detax youth entrepreneurship. The confidence of young entrepreneurs in the South must infect the Government. We begin by exploiting the European funds made available by the regional rural development plans. The South can serve as an example and tow for the rest of the country. What about the ILVA? Article 1 of the Decree-Law in question contains provisions on the completion of the procedure for the disposal of the ILVA group's business complexes, as well as large-scale energy efficiency and environmental rehabilitation projects. We have asked - unfortunately, the Government has not listened to us - to envisage, in compliance with national and Community legislation in the sector, the financing, within the financial plan submitted to the buyer, of measures aimed at reducing CO2 emissions in order to meet the urgent need for a transition towards a sustainable and decarbonised economy, based on energy efficiency, renewable energy and intelligent infrastructure and to transform the production technology of ultra-reduced CO2 emissions steel. I have focused, given the limited time available, on these few points, but there are many others to illustrate how lacking this measure is. In general, there is no serious plan for the revival of the part of the country that has remained behind, that despite everything, in some realities, has however developed, even if it grows at a rate equal to half the national average. The measure at our examination testifies to the presence of a series of norms approved by the central-left governments of recent years, that have not found solution to the problems of the Mezzogiorno; a series of dispositions that postpone the problems from year to year, starting from the norms that concern the ILVA of Taranto, that have recorded the twelfth measure in matter from 2012 to today, and it is the sixth, if referred to the Renzi-Gentiloni Governments. They have been essentially lost five years without finding a definitive solution to a subject that has been dragging on for many, too many years. In these provisions there is an inability to find a solution to the industrial conversion of the large steel industry, as well as to the environmental problems, the relocation of workers and the public health associated with it. In short, once again there is no overall strategy which focuses mainly on the upgrading of infrastructure, the lack of which is one of the atatacic obstacles to the economic growth of the Mezzogiorno. A coordination of resources from Europe must be carried out and a plan for the Mezzogiorno, which, thanks to the guarantees of the presence of public funding, functions as a multiplier for public investment, must be studied. We are talking about European funds, which are allocated to our Mezzogiorno: they are high (over 40 billion the last round of funding up to 2020), but they are not spent because they are not linked to real planning. It is therefore necessary to encourage those who have planning and discourage those who have wasted or lacked concrete projects. It must finally be understood that the structural funds can no longer be used to make current expenditure or to train people who will not find a job where they are formed. This is the painting. What is lacking is a policy of planning and control over funds that, together with private (including foreign) funds, can finally shock an economy that is still bent by the crisis. I therefore announce that we will vote against this measure, which is once again a missed opportunity to lift the fate of the South. The South, in our opinion, demands and deserves more. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Santini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for years the South has been on the fringes of the country's political agenda and the resources available have often been misused or delayed, or distorted towards other purposes or for other emergencies. Over the last three years, a number of interventions have contributed to a change of course. SVIMEZ, in the last report, told us that GDP and employment in the Mezzogiorno, after seven years, have returned to growth, just as some vital sectors are no longer in decline, but instead are in extension. In the last year several territorial pacts have been signed by the central government with the regional governments of the South and with the metropolitan cities. The next few years will have to be used to speed up the available resources which, as we know, are very large (over 95 billion). In the decree-law under consideration are contained punctual and targeted measures both to address the issue of emergencies and to strengthen system measures. There are measures for ILVA; health is invested with resources allocated to a care network in an area marked by the effects of heavy industrialization; oncology and radiotherapy structures are strengthened in the Mezzogiorno, and we know, unfortunately, how much this is necessary; tax credit is strengthened, in terms of development, by increasing the rates of facilitation and extending its access also to Sardinia, for large and small companies for the purchase of capital goods. All these measures serve to increase the productive potential and not, as some say, the representative machine. Specifically, the measures for the completion of the procedure for the disposal of the ILVA group's business complexes are significant, after many interventions, as well as energy efficiency and environmental rehabilitation projects, to which are added important measures, as already pointed out, for the emergency health and welfare support for the families of Taranto and neighbouring municipalities. A cost of €24 million is also authorised to supplement the economic treatment of employees employed at ILVA after long years of cash integration. At the environmental level, there are specific measures to ensure that the European Court of Justice adapts rapidly to the judgments of the European Court of Justice, avoiding the worsening of infringement procedures in place, through interventions on collection, sewering and purification systems. It changes the composition of the direction cabin, established to define the strategic guidelines for the program of environmental rehabilitation and urban regeneration of the Bagnoli-Coroglio area and for further initiatives in the territory. Authorisation is granted to the current Special Commissioner for the implementation of the safety and management of hazardous and radioactive waste located in the former Cemerad warehouse in the territory of the Municipality of Statte. Finally, the Puglia Region will provide, using the Agency for environmental protection and the competent local health company, the preparation of an extraordinary plan of investigation and study aimed at verifying the state of environmental matrixes, in particular in the Municipality of Ugento and in the areas affected by the increased presence of landfills. It also intervenes in the matter of marine transports and the fields of the handling of the container and the activity of transhipment of the ships (the so-called transhipment). It increases the contribution for the immaterial network of the interporti finalized to upgrade the logistic net, with investments of 5 million euros per year, for each of the next five years. A temporary agency for the administration of work in port and for the professional retraining of employees is set up for a maximum period of 36 months, with the aim of supporting employment and accompanying the necessary industrial conversion processes. On the social level, the appropriation for the Fund for non-self-sufficiency is increased by 50 million euros, with the possibility of allowing greater effectiveness to these interventions and is allocated, under the programme agreements necessary for the allocation of the remaining resources of the multiannual plan of interventions for the public health heritage, a share of more than 100 million euros for the redevelopment and technological modernization of oncology radiotherapy services in all the southern regions, namely in Abruzzo, Molise, Puglia, Campania, Calabria, Basilicata, Sicily and Sardinia and, in particular, for the acquisition of equipment equipped with new robotic or rotational technologies. In terms of development policies, the aim is to promote territorial rebalancing between the different areas of the country, thus working on the fact that the additional resources for cohesion policy are also allocated according to the differences present in the territories, thus trying to make them more targeted and effective. The Territorial Cohesion Agency is allowed to conclude special agreements with state-owned companies, with the aim of strengthening the implementation of the 2014-2020 programming, to recover the delays of the past, to support economic growth and to accelerate the implementation of cohesion policy interventions. These activities are carried out within the resources available under existing national and European legislation. As we said, the tax credit rules for the purchase of capital goods for production facilities in assisted areas located in the Mezzogiorno regions, introduced by the Stability Act for 2016. To this end, there will be a three-year extension for the use of contributions that have not been used for the originally authorised intervention, so that they can be used for other purposes of public interest. As we know, this is always a very difficult subject for the South, which here finds a concrete answer, which we hope will also be very effective. Finally, Article 7-novies introduces amendments to the provisions of the last Budget Act, to strengthen the measure of 150% increase in depreciation on high-tech goods, in order to ensure a qualitative development of the industrial sector, according to the Industry 4.0 Plan. In conclusion, we can say that the southern issue, with this measure, is taking a step forward. It is not only a question of the amount of resources, which are important and allocated to a sufficient extent, but the measures of the Renzi and Gentiloni Governments are also aimed at supporting the structure, the ruling class and the management of change, in order to make the best use of these resources. In this area of the national territory there is a significant potential for ransom for the country both to defeat the crisis in the South, and to give more strength to the overall recovery. An authentically reformist culture therefore sees in the Mezzogiorno a test bench, very challenging and with the decree-law under consideration, punctual, specific, but also system, it takes a decisive step forward. [[Applause from Senators Berger and Padua]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u58	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u59	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u62	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, today is the 25th anniversary of a very serious genocide in Khojaly, Azerbaijan, at the end of February 1992. The truth about the fact: on the Armenian side the operation was justified by talking about military operation, but in that affair more than 600 civilians died, more than 100 women, more than 150 children and the elderly and the war is not done against civilians, women, children and the elderly. For those who do not know the story, everything happens in the context of that war fought at alternating rhythms in Nagorno-Karabakh, a disputed territory between Azerbaijan and Armenia. Four UN resolutions sanction Azerbaijan's sovereignty over those areas, but over the last twenty-five years there has been a genuine ethnic cleansing: more than two million Azerbaijanis can no longer live in their territories, have been eradicated and are internal refugees, that is, live in other parts of that country. The Caucasus for us is a very distant land, which arouses little interest in the European media; indeed, more than correct information about those events has been made propaganda. Our Western media probably doesn't like strong governments. If we go to see some small reports, we notice that whatever happens in those countries, there are always responsibilities to be borne by Azerbaijan, Russia, Israel and now also by America, because the Administration has changed and there is not the same tolerance to the Trump Administration as there was to the previous one. I can say that I have seen at least one RAI service (I don't think so many others have been done) in which, describing what is happening in Nagorno-Karabakh, interviews have taken place, opinions have been gathered, too bad that they were exclusively Armenian subjects. This is not to do information, but perhaps to distort the information. We would like to be able to make known the truth of that situation, of what happened, of that tragic event, and Parliament is one of the few places where this is possible. Looking at what happened in similar areas, in the former Yugoslavia, for example, we all knew the great massacre of Srebrenica and in that case an international commission was set up to ascertain whether there had been human rights violations and to take responsibility. Well, we would have the pleasure of understanding what happened twenty-five years ago in Khojaly in Nagorno-Karabakh and a commission on non-war crimes, because these were committed against civilians, would be more than appropriate. [[Applause from Senator Berger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u65	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, here I would like to talk about a subject that I have already dealt with, namely the detention of pensioners and the unemployed, that is, of all those who receive an economic relief, an allowance or a pension, by the INPS. Rightly, there are tax deductions. I had already a little crooked my nose when I learned that the pensioner does not receive cedolins every month, in which he can detect which deductions are made. Then, it must be said that even if he had this canopy where to read the deductions it would already be difficult to read them, but neither is it given, nor to the unemployed person, who takes an unemployment benefit of 600, 700 or 800 euros at the most, nor to the pensioner. The most serious thing is that I am receiving reports of people denouncing how among these deductions there are those union ones, made in front of their choice made when they went to some patronage related to the union that, in addition to the various documentations and delegations to manage the practice, made them sign also the delegation for the restraining union. Rightly, this is a right, but sometimes these people are also unaware. I therefore ask the Minister for Labour to take a measure in order to ask the INPS to confirm that these delegations are still current, the result of a real spontaneous will. We must understand that these deductions are carried out every month, forever and very often the person, if he does not receive a candle to read, does not even understand what is held. It would therefore be appropriate, Mr President, for the Minister to report to the INPS this situation. You simply have to ask people to confirm that they want to continue to have union deductions on pension or unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u68	ICHINO (PD). Mr President, the permanent census of legal proceedings in the field of employment reveals some data which does not seem to me to be too impressive. From 2012 to 2016 the total number of disputes before the working sections of courts and court of appeal, in the private sector, decreased by a third. But even more drastic is the current reduction in the same sector of the disputes over dismissals and forward contracts: in the same five-year period the number of these judicial proceedings has been reduced by 69 per cent. I was able to obtain these data at the source, i.e. from the Ministry of Justice, with great difficulty. I therefore put a first question to the House: why so much difficulty? The same law No. 92 of 2012, the so-called Fornero law, which triggered this virtuous process of aligning the Italian labour litigation rate to the levels of the other major European countries, expressly provides for the monitoring of the effects produced, according to a pragmatic and rigorous assessment of the impact of the new legislation. But, even if the law didn't foresee it, what could be a serious reason not to publish online and permanently update the entire set of these data from the beginning of the computer census and not just the one after 2011, so that anyone can study and discuss them? The other thing, no less important, on which we have to ask ourselves is the significance of this phenomenon that technicians indicate with the expression "deflation of litigation" and that manifests itself in this dimension only in the private sector; in the public sector the reduction was only of 13%. We will only be able to answer this question when the entire data set is available. For the time being, it is interesting to note that, since labour proceedings constituted, until a few years ago, about a third of the total number of civil proceedings, it can also be hoped that the return to normality of the volume of labour litigation will also contribute to the improvement of the efficiency of the civil justice system, an additional reason, therefore, to allow full knowledge and transparency of the whole flow of proceedings, both in its aggregated data and in its broken down data.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u69	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-21-LEG17-Senato-sed-766.ana.u70	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 22 February, in two public sessions, the first at 9 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.48 p.m.
