ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 6 July.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (at 16.35).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u10	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business because, reading today's agenda, I wonder if something might not escape the Presidency. Last week the Assembly, with more than a favourable vote, decided that draft law No 951 could be discussed and related, on the detachment of the Municipality of Sappada from Veneto, immediately after the provision on the new anti-mafia code. I wonder, Mr President, whether we continue to play with answers that are never given and whether there is a willingness to change the cards on the table. This time, however, there is a clear, clear and definite vote which must be respected. I do not know what the will of this House is, but I do ask it to express itself. And I ask for respect for what the House, through the vote, calls for, expresses and represents.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u11	Senator Bellot, you know very well, and if you don't know, I'll tell you, the decree-laws take precedence over everything. Therefore, today we will examine the Decree-Law on Vaccines.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u12	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2856. The rapporteur, Senator Manassero, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today in this House the debate on the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 73 of 7 June 2017 with urgent provisions on vaccination prevention. [[Brusio.]] Mr. President, I can't hear myself.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u14	Senator Manassero, I hope you can at least keep going. I will invite colleagues to lower their voices in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u15	Colleagues, if anyone needs to discuss, he can sit outside the Chamber so that we can do our work usefully. Mr Manassero, rapporteur. Vaccination is considered one of the most important medical discoveries made by man and the importance it has for the impact on health is such that it is considered, together with the improvement of hygienic conditions, drinking water, antibiotics and food, among the factors that have allowed to double the life expectancy in the richest nations in the last hundred years. Among all health interventions, it was the new vaccines that allowed to defeat the diseases that have caused serious epidemics in the past. The WHO estimates that every minute five lives are saved, equal to 7,200 lives per day, thanks to the administration of vaccines. Therefore, it is to be considered a global problem of social justice and health to guarantee access to vaccines for all, especially the poorest nations. The protection of the Italian State against the health of its citizens, through the prevention of the spread of endemic diseases, is certainly not recent: in fact, in 1939 the promulgation of the first law establishing a vaccination obligation against diphtheria. With subsequent laws, vaccination obligations against polio, tetanus and hepatitis B were introduced. In 1961 it was decided to verify compliance with the prescribed vaccinations, placing their fulfilment as an essential condition in order to be able to enroll in the compulsory school and support its examinations. It was the responsibility of school directors and principals to verify the presence of vaccination certificates, without which pupils could not be admitted to school or examinations. In 1999, considering the state of vaccine cover, following some judgments in favour of families who had considered it appropriate to make non-vaccine choices, this obligation was removed. Since then, the lack of certification has no longer led to the student's refusal to admit to school or exams. Since 1999 it has been working, in place of the coercive aspect, towards an active adherence of families to the vaccination prevention, developing the National Plan of vaccination prevention, periodically renewed document, of which in January the planning for the period 2017-2019 was approved. The importance and value of the programming contained in the National Vaccine Prevention Plan, by approach, objectives and method, have been referred to all hearings held within the 12th Commission. I summarize the main objectives identified by the national vaccination prevention plan 2017-2019, consistent with the lines of the European Action Plan for Vaccinations and the Global Plan of the European Region of the World Health Organisation (WHO): to maintain the polio-free state (the European region of the WHO reached the polio-free status in 2002); to reach the measles-free and rubella-free state; to ensure the active and free offer of vaccinations in the target age groups and groups of populations at risk; to increase conscious adherence to vaccinations in the general population, including through the conduct of vaccination campaigns for the consolidation of vaccine coverage; to combat inequalities by promoting vaccination interventions in marginalised or particularly vulnerable groups of populations; to complete the computerisation of vaccination anagraphs, at regional and national level, interoperable between them and with other databases; to improve the surveillance of preventable diseases with vaccination; to promote, in the general population and health professionals, a culture of vaccinations consistent with the guiding principles of the national vaccination prevention plan. The above document in fact also exceeds the difference between compulsory and recommended vaccines and specifies the national vaccination calendar; it is set on the whole life cycle of people: there is not only attention to children, but also the provision of coverage for the elderly compared to serious diseases such as influenza, zoster and invasive pneumococcal disease. Therefore, with Decree-Law No 73 of 7 June 2017, we come today to the re-introduction of the vaccination obligation, binding on the requirements for the participation of children and girls in the nests, public and private childcare services and schools and with a sanctioning regime for the attendance of the compulsory school. The choice to act with a decree-law has been motivated by the worrying decrease in the last few years of all vaccine cover and in particular regarding measles, a disease of which an epidemic is in progress. Data on the measles epidemic from January 1, 2017 to July 2, 2017 speak of 3,346 reported cases, including 2 deaths; of these, 88 percent were not vaccinated and 7 percent had received only one dose of vaccine; the median age of cases is 27 years; 200 cases were less than one year old; 252 cases were reported among healthcare professionals. This is a framework that justifies vaccination prophylaxis. Over the years, therefore, we have moved from the vaccination obligation to accession and active proposition. Today, we have to see that vaccination coverage is low and gradually reduced in relation to the objectives set, which are likely to call for a call from the WHO. Researching the causes that have led an increasing proportion of citizens to give up vaccination prevention, has identified some reasons. Fake news and misinformation have certainly generated a growth in anti-vaccine culture. On the other hand, the discussion about vaccinations and vaccination obligation has an ancient history as well as that of vaccines. Edward Jenner's discovery in 1796 of the smallpox vaccine was accompanied immediately by a heated discussion between supporters and opponents. Although smallpox was a very serious disease, strong contrasts emerged at the time, dictated both by reasons contrary to the use and inoculation in the human body of material taken from animals (as they were then the first vaccines against smallpox), and by a fatalism linked instead to religious motives. Today, research offers us innovative vaccines, but people still find it difficult to accept such a drug. A difficulty that must be respected and accompanied by good information and convincing reasons. Another reason is the fact that in young families, who fortunately live a season of good collective health, fears about the risks and adverse reactions to vaccination prevail, at the expense of the risks they would run by contracting diseases that for them are distant and unknown. It is precisely on adverse reactions and pharmacovigilance that there are good reasons to ask for and support maximum transparency in the publication of data. The division of tasks by the Regions and the State, as identified in the National Vaccine Plan, did not work best. Already in the survey promoted by the Bicameral Committee for Children in the 14th legislature on paediatric vaccination coverage and hospitalization of children with infectious diseases, it emerged that recommended vaccines are offered actively in some regions, while in others there is some inertia in the supply. This is not without importance, because it results in a different extension of the vaccine cover. Only where the doctors of the vaccination centers convincingly present to the parents the possibility and the advantages (active offer) to immunize their children in respect of all diseases preventable with vaccines is there a wide adherence also to the recommended vaccinations. Where, on the other hand, recommended vaccines are provided only if explicitly required, only that proportion of children whose parents have had self-awareness of this possibility is immunised, thanks to their level of education and because they are particularly attentive to the health of their children. In this way, a state of iniquity is determined to the detriment of children belonging to the least protected sections of the population. Finally, the territorial services, penalized by years of resource and personnel cuts, have focused on other functions and emergencies, while the services accompanying prevention and active proposition have been depowered. We must therefore recognise that responsibility for reducing vaccine cover is articulated. At the moment of intervention with the decree it is therefore necessary to balance these responsibilities between the families and the public part. That was the principle behind our work in the Commission. The points that we consider necessary therefore for the balancing of responsibilities and that have been the subject of modification of the text through the approval of amendments in the Commission relate to: the implementation of broad and truthful information campaigns, information dedicated to reassuring families, to bring them to a convinced and serene approach to vaccination; the preparation of a national vaccination registry integrated between the Ministry and the Regions, useful to monitor both vaccinations and adverse events (diseases), an indispensable tool both for scientific and statistical assessments on immunizations, and for the citizen, to have memory of their own state of vaccine coverage; to strengthen the training and information of all health personnel; to introduce punctual pharmacovigilance, which strengthens the reports of events against vaccination, controlling them and making them public in a transparent and timely manner; to respect the implementation of the new LEAs. The vaccination plan, in its maximum coverage, is fully funded by the new LEAs. We considered it necessary for the Commission to monitor and monitor the attractiveness of the LEAs, introduced with the approval of the LEAs, to also verify the state of implementation of the National Vaccine Prevention Plan and the national vaccination timetable. Afterwards, the inclusion of the verification of the vaccination cover of health and school staff, with reference to the law on the safety of work for the consequent actions, as well as the simplification of the bureaucratic part to be borne by families, schools and ASL that, with the contribution of technology, can be facilitated today also to make the measure less invisible. We wanted to reiterate that the decree-law remains rooted in the national vaccination prevention plan and the national vaccination calendar provided for in it and we have worked to strengthen and qualify the text that we are going to discuss. Article 1, paragraph 1, of the measure, as amended by the Commission's work, by the amendment presented and by the comparison with the Government addresses the method of administration of total fourteen vaccines divided as follows: in paragraph 1 are indicated the six compulsory vaccines, which are the four historical (antipoly, tetanus, anti-diphtheria and hepatitis) most antioxidants and antihaemophilus influenzae type B. The four vaccines against measles, rubella, chickenpox and mumps are followed in paragraph 1-a. For these vaccines there is an obligation conditional on a three-year revaluation based on the verification of epidemiological data and the vaccine coverage achieved, carried out by the monitoring commission of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers for the definition and updating of LEAs, established by decree of the Ministry of Health in January 2017. The Ministry of Health, with decree to be adopted three years from the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of this decree-law and, subsequently, every three years, heard the Higher Council of Health and the Permanent Conference for the relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, after opinion of the competent parliamentary committees, may arrange the cessation of the obligation for one or more vaccinations referred to in paragraph 1-a. In the event of failure to submit to the Chambers of the decree schemes in the terms referred to in the previous period, it is proposed that the Minister of Health transmit to the Chambers a report stating the reasons for the non-submission, as well as epidemiological data and data on vaccine cover. In paragraph 1-c we introduce the antimeningococcal B, the antimeningococcal C, the antipneumococcal and the antirotavirus. These vaccines are recommended and their value is reinforced by the inclusion in the measure, which ensures its active and free offer. All fourteen vaccines planned for the age group between zero and sixteen years are therefore considered necessary. In order to achieve the objectives of vaccination coverage, it is considered important to use at the same time and subsidiaryly two instruments, such as the compulsory and the active proposition and adhesion, with the wish - I add - to be able to reach that maturity in the approach to vaccinations so as to allow, as soon as possible, the overcoming of the obligation. In this respect, the three-year evaluation is an opportunity for this revaluation. Paragraph 4 provides, in case of non-compliance with the vaccination obligation referred to in paragraph 1, the imposition on parents exhibiting parental responsibility and on guardians of administrative sanctions of value from 500 and 3,500 euros. Again, the Commission considered that the weight of the sanctions should be adjusted and that the reference to the Court of Justice for parents who did not comply with the vaccination obligation should be deleted. Article 2 of the measure provides for communication initiatives on vaccinations, while Article 3 lays down measures on vaccination requirements for enrolment in education services for children, institutions of the national education system, regional vocational training centres and private non-equal schools. Article 4 contains further requirements, Article 5 of the transitional provisions, Article 6 of the repeal of previous laws on the obligation and Article 7 of the financial provisions. I am convinced that a great deal of work has been done in the Commission on this decree-law, on prevention and on vaccination, in addition to the concerns about the general state of health which had motivated it, including the legitimate health of families, which must be respected and to which we have tried to give answers. For this work, therefore, I would like to thank the entire Commission, its President, Senator Emilia De Biasi, for the conduct of the work, all the Commissioners, because the comparison between very different positions has been and always is useful, my Group, of course, for the support and the Government in the person of Minister Lorenzin for the willingness to confront. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u16	I communicate that a number of questions have been referred for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Stefani to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1 (text 2). You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u17	Mr President, let us address the issue contained in the Decree-Law under consideration, which provides for measures to make it compulsory for parents to vaccinate their children. We believe that there are issues, both in fact and in law, which cause us to doubt first of all that the constitutionally correct instrument for this case has been chosen, and that the provisions contained in the decree-law are in conformity with the Constitution. First of all, it is to be noted that the system of the decree of urgency has been used, showing that there are urgent questions so as to justify the issuing of a decree-law, precisely. Indeed, the President-in-Office of the Council has argued that over the years the lack of appropriate measures and the spread, especially in recent months, of anti-scientific behaviours and theories, have led to lower levels of vaccine protection. That is what the President-in-Office of the Council says. Yet, he himself acknowledges that there is no medical emergency. We are not talking about the alarmism spread by the Minister of Health, who, in our opinion, has taken on serious institutional and social behavior by saying that there is a form of epidemic, which has not found any confirmation even in the data reported by the Ministry of Health itself. If, in fact, one of the latest bulletins, the one updated to 23 May, is considered, there is even a decreasing trend in cases - given that we are talking in particular about measles - since April. And today, in some ways, the same situation has definitely improved compared to the January data. Therefore, it cannot be said at all that at present there is a health emergency which legitimates the imposition of a vaccination obligation, as provided for in the decree-law. We do not see what else the requirements of necessity and urgency can be. If, then, as Minister Lorenzin said, assessments have been made on the basis of a given parameter for which the percentage of vaccinees is too low compared to who knows what requirements, then that it is assessed in a bill and certainly not in a decree-law that imposes timing and modalities, especially on a topic such as this, absolutely not in conformity with what must be a serious, weighed and balanced study that such matter requires. We must certainly remember here that a decree-law like this has fueled a huge debate outside this House that has questioned the same vaccines. We believe that the vaccine is however a matter of civilization: there have really been epidemics and diseases defeated thanks to vaccines, but with the alarm that you have created with this measure, imposing the obligatory vaccination, you have moved a world and this will definitely come back against you. Returning to the question of constitutionality that we want to support, in the decree-law it is even expected that children up to six years old can not even be enrolled in kindergarten or kindergarten unless all the vaccinations have been carried out. After that, it also provides for sanctions (which the Commission proposes at least to reduce in relation to the original forecast) if the vaccination obligation is not complied with. We believe that discrimination and unequal treatment exist in this particular case. If it is true, as you think, that the vaccination obligation complies with the health and vaccination emergency requirements, then why distinguish between preschool children and those of school age? If it is true that there is an emergency, the latter should also go beyond compulsory schooling. Or you did this rule simply to contemporaneize this interest: on the one hand, what you want to impose, namely the obligation to vaccination; on the other hand, the obligation for parents to send their children to school. But, I repeat, if there is an emergency, this exceeds all distinctions; if there is an emergency, then you should not go to school if not vaccinated. But the emergency - we said - is not there. With regard to the provision of economic sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the vaccination obligation, the Commission has proposed to reduce to EUR 3,500 a penalty of up to EUR 7,500. It is true that we are talking about sums ranging from a minimum to a maximum, but we are creating discrimination per census, on the basis of financial penalties. A well-off parent can, in some ways, afford to violate the vaccination obligation, because he knows that he could possibly get rid of it by paying money as a sanction. In fact, you had originally even foreseen the forfeiture of parental responsibility or, in any case, the predictions that were going to affect what was once called the country's power. It is very serious to have foreseen a type of sanction such as this in automatic way in relation to the non-compliance with what you wanted to foresee, therefore an obligation of vaccination urbi et orbi. But you may have realized that, even on the basis of the disputes we raised. Even predicting a decadence or hypothesis that will affect parental responsibility for a vaccination obligation, is how much more it can be foreign to the principles of our order, because such automatisms cannot and must not be foreseen. By removing this type of sanction, there is only the economic and financial penalty, which, as we have said, creates a difference of treatment: for the poor parent it is obvious that the spectre of the sanction will impose conduct other than those carried out by far more wealthy parents, who can also face a sort of risk. We can also not pick up a small digression on the content of the norm. Immunizations are required with a large number of doses given to children without any possibility of prevaccinal diagnostics in order to avoid or verify any adverse reactions. Then we will see in practice how this will be achieved at the time when the vaccination obligation is established, and when the parent is submitted with the signature of some form in which he exempts from liability the bodies or doctors who administer it. In case the parent decides to submit to vaccination, but not to sign that form, giving the responsibility to those who are doing the vaccination, then there will be a conflict that we would like to see what fate and what eventual outcome it will have. However, we are certainly faced with complex issues as always, because we are talking about the relationship between science, ethics and law. But gentlemen, to impose a course of action, to make it compulsory, as in this case in the field of health must be done with great balance and with great caution. The coercion must be legitimated and motivated by valid reasons. We believe that the solution can only be that which passes through an optionality and the possibility of subjecting to vaccination prevention, leaving the freedom of choice to individuals when exactly informed. This is what is happening with the system adopted in the region from which I come, Veneto, which has always produced excellent results. For the reasons set out above, we ask you to decide not to proceed with the examination of the draft law in question. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u18	He asked Senator Endrizzi to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us first of all remember that today the PD-led government gives 17 billion euros of citizens to a private bank: a year of citizenship income to restore two of the many banks you have splintered, leaving the savers in the abyss. Having said that, let's try to understand why the government intervenes on vaccines worse than an elephant in a crystal store. I am not just referring to the form of the decree-law: the conditions of necessity and urgency are denied by the January vaccination plan. The President of the Council, Gentiloni Silveri, confessed this at the time of the presentation: there is no national emergency, there is no epidemic; but here we are presented with measures as if we were facing ten of them. But if the entire Italian epidemiological surveillance system has failed, you should immediately request the resignation of Minister Lorenzin. Obviously this is not the case and the same article 1, paragraph 6 of the decree-law confesses it, which I invite you to read. In this case we talk about the widespread profiles of inconstitutionality also in the substance. Article 32 of the Constitution: "No one can be obliged to a certain health treatment except for legal provisions." As Minister Lorenzin should know, the Constitutional Court, in judgment No 258 of 1994, reiterated that a law cannot impose health treatment when it negatively affects the state of health of the person subject to it. In these cases, the protection of the community must always be contemporaneous with the protection of the health of the individual, which also provides the right not to be subjected to invasive treatment. In this case, at least, it becomes necessary to assess as accurately as possible the complications deriving from vaccination and the identification of diagnostic tools suitable to provide for their practical verification. And this in the decree-law is completely missing. Articles 2, 13 and 32 of the Constitution summarise the fundamental rights of the self-determination person and the right to health. The citizen has the right to so-called informed consent, or is entitled to receive appropriate information on the nature and possible developments of the therapeutic path to which he may be subjected, as well as any alternative therapies and related risks; a principle also expressed by Article 5 of the Oviedo Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, ratified by Italy, and by Article 3 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, proclaimed in Nice on 7 December 2000. This is what the 5 Star Movement advocates: a system centered on the recommendation, because educating and promoting the conscious adherence of families to vaccination campaigns is the way that in the most advanced countries shows the best coverage results. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Finally, a very resounding issue: it is foreseen in the decree-law under consideration that up to the age of six not vaccinated children cannot be enrolled in kindergarten, kindergarten and elementary schools, with a penalty from 500 to 3,500 euros charged to parents. And why would a six-year-old have a treatment other than one of seven? And how can one think of taking away from a child the protections of article 34, paragraph 2 of the Constitution: Is lower education for at least eight years compulsory and free of charge? According to the decree-law under consideration, wealthy families, able to pay the penalty and parental education through private institutions, will have the possibility of choice denied to the less well-off families. Perhaps all citizens do not have equal dignity and are not equal before the law? There are still profiles of violation of Article 117 of the Constitution, since health skills are shared with the Regions. It is not difficult to predict recourses to the Consulta, as the one already announced by the Veneto Region. Let us return to the initial question: why does the Government insist, in contempt of the Constitution and the citizens? In the preamble to the decree-law under consideration, the Government refers to not well identified obligations, strategies and objectives set in the European area. It's fake! In France there are three compulsory vaccines, while in England and Germany the number of compulsory vaccines is zero. We do not, therefore, find reasonable and constitutionally grounded arguments for the government's protection. It's time to believe that Matteo Renzi really said those words: "Guys, we have to nail the triggers on the vaccines. This must be their Etruria Bank. Do you realize that? Mr President, the decree-law in question appears, for all the reasons I have been able to express and for many others that we have deposited, detrimental to Article 3 of the Constitution, as well as to Articles 2, 13, 32, 34, 10, 77, 81 and 117 and to numerous and consolidated judgments of the Constitutional Court. On behalf of the 5 Star Movement Group, I would ask, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, not to proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 2856. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u20	He asked Senator D'Anna to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u21	Mr President, the previous speakers, of course, have mentioned things which I should like to reiterate on the aspects of the unconstitutionality of the measure under consideration, which are limited to the Italian Constitution. But, because there is a lot of fat that flows, it seems that articles of the European Constitution have also been violated and a treaty that Italy signed a few years ago, namely the Oviedo Convention, which prohibits the administration of any treatment and any medication against the will of individuals. Because vaccines are nothing more than a drug - they have a pharmacodynamics other than aspirin, but they are always a drug - we are obviously also violating this international treaty. Without prejudice, therefore, to the general reference to violations of constitutionality, another reflection must be made, in the presence of the Minister who honours us today. Mr Minister, we are going to vaccinate and force children to catch themselves, in the period between three and twelve months of life, so with a still immature and approximate immune system, a number of vaccines, a bombardment of these drugs, which, in general, as well as in a specific way, will only interfere with and disrupt the physiological development of these systems, compared to the physiology of the systems themselves. We are doing this because, as my fellow Members have just mentioned, we are not afflicted or threatened by any epidemic and, indeed, I would remind the Minister, that having little familiarity with the subject, I think it is ill-advised, that in Italy since 1990 both the cough and the diphtheria have disappeared. Because, contrary to what the autocrats and tracotanti of vaccination want to feed people, some diseases have disappeared without vaccination: I quote cholera, I quote the plague, diseases that have disappeared naturally from the statistics of the Ministry of Health itself. Obviously, in Italy we began to vaccinate for cough in 1990, when the disease no longer gave death or very serious cases. I must also reassure the rapporteur of the measure which, starting from Jenner's discovery of the vaccine, reminded us that even then there were disputes. I want to reply with a phrase by Jean Cocteau, who, in an epistolary with Jacques Maritain, thanked him because he did not want to convert him with crucifix blows on his head: that is exactly what you are doing with compulsory vaccination and the suspension of the country's power. [[Applause from Senator Pagnoncelli]] The truth is not that we are troglodytes; we are people who interpret the concern of some scientists, some virologists and most pediatricians of free choice and many doctors of general medicine, who are literally afraid to object because someone has already been disbarred from the Order with sum infamy for having opposed mass vaccination. I want to explain this to our President, who, being a lawyer, may not even be familiar with it. And I would like to explain to Grandpa Grasso - I'm also Grandpa, here are more grandparents than fathers - that children, with vaccination at three months and recall at twelve months, develop an immunity not natural, but artificial and maintain antibodies for a period ranging from two to twelve years. Another thing is active natural immunity, which gives the so-called flock effect to those who have been infected with the disease. You've all been infected with polio and tuberculosis in here, even though you don't know and you don't know why you haven't been subjected to the complications of these diseases. So as for this story that we come into contact with measles and that has increased by 3,000 times the cases of measles, those children have not died, they have only immunized themselves. It is stupid to say that two children died because they contracted measles: of the two children who died, Minister one was suffering from leukemia and had one immunodeficiency and the other was suffering from a disease that concerned the immune system. The criminalization and the dissemination of news as if at the gates of Italy the lanzichenecchi bearers of the plague are paraded is a sensible criterion, because we abandon the principle of caution, which instead we recall where we want to make vaccination mandatory. What do those who object support? We will explain this in subsequent interventions, but they say something very simple and I address the journalists: here no one questions the goodness of the vaccine therapies, but in these vaccines - it has been demonstrated with the electronic microscope - there are plastic, heavy metals, residual tungsten and steel. Why should these children be given vaccines that are not 100 percent pure? There is only one on the market and it is a vaccine for cats that is immune from any kind of impurities. I challenge anyone in this House to tell me that he can put his hand on the Gospel and say that the impurities contained many times in these vaccines can give neither interference nor complications. I would like to remind you in this House that these are the same solans, Mr President, who have for years inoculated tetanus immunoglobulins, those infected with HCV; the HCV that has claimed victims, tens of thousands of Italians, between immunoglobulins and transfusions infected with this virus that we did not know, until finally the cure that erupted the presence of the virus was put on the market. Care that in Italy - and the Minister should explain why - costs a few tens of thousands of euros, while in Cairo it costs 900 euros: the Minister should explain why, then, we do not put these sick people on a plane to cure them in Cairo instead of in Rome. Minister, you must explain to us what is the criterion that leads us to be so hasty and so overwhelming as to conculcate the natural law, the one that presides in the relationship between the parent and the child: what ethical state can get our hands on this relationship, when you do not even know what is in the vaccine for the treatment of meningitis C? You don't know and you can't explain it. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group and Senator Pepe.]] [[Recalls of the President]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We will see you again, Minister, because I hope that you will chair and be present, as well as the friends of the Health Commission, who will have heard all the human knowledge. You must know, Mr President, that our Commission is a kind of tea club, where, from 3.30 p.m. to 5 p.m., we give hearings to all science and to the contrary. Then, Mr President, we cannot adopt this bill, because it is unconstitutional; we must not, because vaccines are impure; we cannot, because we cannot expose our children, from three to twelve months, to the wing of complications of fetishes inside vaccines. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u22	Thank you, Senator D'Anna, although I have to tell you that you tried to convince the President, jurist and grandfather, but the President did not vote. You have to convince others. He asked Senator Petraglia to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP4. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u23	Mr President, we too have tabled a question for a preliminary ruling, because we consider that the decree-law does not meet the requirements of necessity and urgency on such a sensitive subject that it would have needed a lot of other times and much more debate, especially a debate on the subject, perhaps in order to make a good law. The National Plan for Vaccine Prevention, on the other hand, devoted an entire paragraph to the process of overcoming the vaccination obligation, which provided for a path leading to this overcoming. What happened after the approval alone, a few years ago, of the vaccination plan, is still to be clarified. The adoption of this measure - it has been widely said - is not backed up by real conditions, verifiable by scientific and medical data, but only by the Government's prevaricative will to subtract one of its fundamental prerogatives from Parliament: once again Parliament is snatched of ordinary legislative power. And all this to cover the shortcomings of an action that has chosen incorrect lines of intervention, sacrificing doctors and healthcare professionals, choosing failed and non-transparent communication strategies, without a real involvement of citizenship and without a real control over the bodies responsible for vaccine surveillance and in the absence almost total guarantees on vaccinations. The debate in this House is not about the need for vaccination, about the determination of an informed consensus based on transparency, on the scientific correctness of the data, on the dialogue between families, doctors and health workers, but has moved only on the obligation imposed by the Government, inter alia related to financial sanctions that, even if diminished or halved, are an element of inequality and of clear division into social classes of our society. Those who have the money will in fact be able to enroll their children in school even without vaccines. All this has created a sense of strong opposition but also a bad discussion within the country, because there is a confrontation between populisms: that of government and that which opposes it. On the other hand, the issue deserves serious discussion, because vaccination is an important issue, which, however, has an impact on the Constitution, starting with Article 117. The Constitutional Court has already expressed itself, saying that the State cannot assume the right to decide on a competing matter by not respecting or prevaricating the own and exclusive legislative power of the Regions. But this the Minister and the Government know very well, to the point that they have declared and written in an amendment that the implementation of the decree-law is then up to the Regions. To the regions, yes, but there are, and we know, very great differences and inequalities in the health organization between the regions. This is a fact that will reverberate negatively, for example, also on the vaccination side in the coverage of the population concerned, i.e. on the only feedback of data for which the Ministry of Health does not have the data of as many as four Regions without vaccination registry. The Government will activate a national registry that, in fact, will be incomplete, not to mention the lack of resources planned for the year 2019. In recent years many Regions, including Tuscany and Veneto, have enacted regional laws to cancel the obligation of vaccinations for the evolutionary age while maintaining an excellent coverage on the main vaccinations, based on the acquisition of a conscious adherence of parents with the help of an effective information system based on well-organized vaccination anagraphs, on the organization of a system of training of staff and family pediatricians, on the achievement of an adequate vaccination coverage of the most important recommended vaccinations, on the start of a system of surveillance of the communicable diseases sensitive and specific and on the development of a system of monitoring of the adverse events to vaccine. All this has led in a short time to the improvement of the quality of the services provided and, above all, to the improvement of the relationship between regional health service, national health service and populations. These were the data that the experts provided. The vaccinations, perhaps it is good that we say this to avoid strange discussions, represent an effective means of preventing infectious diseases, universally recognized by scientific evidence and by the citizens themselves. Vaccinations have contributed and contribute to the citizens' right to health, but this cannot happen without respecting Article 32 of the Constitution. In Italy there are no uniform guidelines at national level regarding the administration of vaccines and all procedures related to the management of vaccination activity. It is therefore incomprehensible and inconceivable to leave so much autonomy to doctors of general medicine or to pediatricians of free choice, who cannot, themselves, ensure that the vaccine does not cause harm. No doctor would ever sign the informed consent to proceed with vaccination of a child due to the fact that there is no analysis or history that can ensure that there is no harm. And on this too there are very clear sentences, like that of the court of appeal of Naples, in this sense. And by virtue of the fact that the vaccine is a biological drug, according to Law No. 210 of 1992 there are obviously compensations for damage from vaccine, blood products or blood transfusions; therefore no one is able to guarantee that the vaccine itself can bring mild or moderate reactions, acceptable to the parent. We had a duty to work on this, to culturally reconstruct a link between the citizens and the National Health Service that obviously broke. The Constitutional Court affirmed that the vaccination obligation is one of those mandatory health treatments referred to in Article 32 of the Constitution, also recalling that any treatment imposed must respect the limits imposed by respect for the human person. Since 1994 the Court itself has pointed out that the exclusively repressive system does not meet the constitutional principles: the legislator must identify and prescribe specific and punctual rules, provided that within the limits of compatibility with the requirements of general vaccination, preventive investigations are appropriate to provide for and prevent possible risks of complications following vaccinations. The decree-law under consideration not only does not take into account the judgments of the Constitutional Court, but provides for a considerable increase in the number of vaccines, without providing adequate resources and effective tools to avoid harming the individual's right to health. The measure is also focused exclusively on obligations, repression and sanctions, not including any precautionary and risk protection measures, the existence of which is recognized by the same law and decree-law. In the measure under discussion, therefore, the individual's right is unsuccessful and Article 32 of the Constitution does not appear to be respected in its entirety. By introducing a general obligation to vaccination, the risks of appeals and claims for compensation are increased. However, the measure does not provide for financial cover. Immunizations are not all the same from the point of view of personal protection. If the phenomenon is considered in relation to the different individual antibody response and its duration or to the collective response, the optimal population coverage percentage should be considered as different from vaccine, since vaccinations may sometimes give a sense of false security, such as hepatitis B or papilloma virus, which may be overlooked other types of protection, such as those for sexually transmitted diseases. The coercive approach does not focus on health promotion campaigns and is typical of backward countries and is perfectly in line with the approach of authoritarian verticalization already put in place with attempts to modify the Constitution and militarize public health problems, such as those of waste in Campania and nuclear waste. Not to mention the injury to the right to education, not only for children who are not in the compulsory range, but for children who are already in compulsory school. For these reasons, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, we ask that we do not proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 2856 and propose that we return to the House to find a shared legislative solution also to overcome the gap between citizens and institutions. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u24	He asked Senator Pepe to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP5. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Italian legal order, it is envisaged that no health treatment may be carried out or continued in the absence of the prior and explicit consent expressed by the person concerned. The right of the sick person to decide in full conscience and freedom derives from Article 32 of our Constitution, according to which: "No one can be obliged to a certain health treatment except by law." This principle is further confirmed and specified in Article 33 of Law No 833 of 1978, establishing the National Health Service, which provides that health examinations and treatments are usually voluntary; where provided, compulsory health treatment must nevertheless respect the dignity of the person, civic and political rights, including, as far as possible, the right to the free choice of the doctor and of the place of care. The Oviedo Convention (the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of the Human Being with regard to the Applications of Biology and Medicine) adopted in Nice on 7 December 2000 and ratified by the Italian State by Law No 145 of 28 March 2001, states that the free and informed consent of the patient to the medical act must not be considered only from the point of view of the lawfulness of treatment, but must be considered first of all as a genuine fundamental right of the European citizen, which concerns the most general right to the integrity of the person. In dedicating an entire chapter to the issue of consent, as a general rule, the Convention provides that a health treatment may be carried out only if the person concerned has given his or her free and informed consent. Such a person shall first receive adequate information on the purposes and nature of the processing and its consequences and risks. The person concerned may, at any time, freely withdraw his/her consent. Therefore I am opposed to the decree-law because it does not arrange the administration for single doses and requires doctors to derogate from their responsibilities to exercise their profession in science and conscience, free from the threat of radiation and censorship. I am opposed to the decree-law because it does not have any procedure of verification of the components that guarantees the safety of the drug, nor does it provide for a monitoring on the patient that guarantees its predisposition to any adverse reactions that, in the absence of specific investigations, are certainly not excluded, that is to say that the absolute safety of the technology imposed by the decree-law is not certain. This is all very serious. I would therefore ask you not to vote on this anti-institutional and anti-democratic measure and I would remind you that we are ready for the repealing referendum.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u26	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u27	I demand to speak for an announcement of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u29	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, with great regret and with great difficulty I have to say that my position is different from that of the Group in which I am located, namely the Forza Italia Group, because I share all the concerns expressed in this House by my fellow Members, who are not Members of Parliament of Forza Italia, but are Members of Parliament of other Groups present in this House. In the face of particular situations, the MEP has an obligation to recognise when the party is taking a position that is not perfectly suited to the interests of Italian citizens. I would like to invite those who, both in the majority and in the minority, are about to vote against the questions referred for a preliminary ruling and, should they not be convinced, to abstain from the vote, because the right thing is to go into the substance of the debate, to debate within Parliament and to take a decision in the interests of the Italians and our children. It's not fair, it's not fair, it's not normal for a government to make a decree-law on this subject. It's not normal for a government to think of putting a vote of confidence. It is a matter of great unfairness and those within the parties who are asking for a vote of confidence, I can say with great regret that they do not belong to my Jewish-Christian culture. I regret that, but I was obliged to say it with force and clarity. My vote is in favour of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in order to open, within Parliament, a serious debate and debate in the interests of the Italians.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u32	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Scilipoti for having anticipated his dissenting vote in relation to a position of the Group which has not yet been expressed. So now it will be my cure. to express it. Mr President, we are in favour of entering into the substance of the matter and, therefore, the Group's suggestion is to vote against the five questions of constitutionality. We are in favour of discussing the measure, because the debate that has opened in the country is very broad and in-depth. I think that all the parliamentary groups are receiving thousands of calls from the citizens, rightly and legitimately concerned about the measure and, therefore, at this point in the process, we believe that it is mandatory and necessary for the House to discuss the measure to the full. There was a discussion in the Commission that was not exhaustive or exhaustive, because it was nevertheless arranged for the measure to come to this House. I believe that at this point it is essential that the debate opens up in this House but the important thing is that the Government does not put the question of trust, because at this point cutting off the debate would be an insult to the country and a kick in the face of all those who want to put their faces on it and discuss openly and clearly the measure, which concerns all Italian families. I belong to the category of parents who have been responsible for the vaccination of their children, even if there is no obligation. Therefore, I am convinced that the debate is serious and important, with well-defined positions within it. We're all parents. To my children I have done the exavalent, I have done four vaccinations against meningococcal: I have done everything the scientific community advised me to do. However, in view of the mandatory nature of 100% of Italian citizens at this point, a debate must be opened and I hope that there will be time to do so. You, Mr President, have provided the documents which set out the timing of the debate, making it available to my Group forty-eight minutes. I hope that there will be time to discuss in depth the 300 amendments - many of them - tabled to the measure. I repeat that the measure is of interest to the whole country and, therefore, there must be a clear possibility of confrontation within this House. I therefore give an indication of vote against all the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, and I hope that the course will be taken as I have anticipated, as it is important that we fully discuss the substance of the measure. Of course, there is the problem of secret vows. The majority will face it. The Senate Rules do, I know that some groups are collecting signatures for some - many - secret votes, but this is a problem of conscience. Each of us will be confronted with our own convictions. The approach to this issue must be not ideological, but responsible. It is to this responsibility that I appeal and with this responsibility I announce that our Group will vote against the questions of constitutionality. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u35	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I rise to explain my group's vote. Many of the arguments we have heard have not convinced us, while other positions have certainly been better argued and have reasons for truth. In the questions of constitutionality, there are also some arguments which we have taken up in the amendments. That is why we find ourselves in the approach given to the subject by President Romani: if we do not vote in favour of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, it means helping an analysis of the substance, which can lead the oppositions to concentrate on certain amendments and to debate them deeply, then we believe that this "sacrifice" must be done, because the imposition of confidence on a subject of this kind would be a defeat, first of all of Parliament. This is not an issue to be dealt with by using the confidence instrument. As far as we are concerned, we can also make a commitment not to ask for secret votes, although these would not be a drama on a subject such as this. For this reason, we shall be voting against the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, but we strongly demand that the appeal made by President Romani not to resort to a vote of confidence be accepted and that a signal be received from the majority. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u36	I demand to speak for an announcement of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u38	BONFRISCO (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I would like to say that I voted in favour of the reference made to this House by Mrs Stefani, who has focused on the heart of this debate and on all the possible implications of a debate which I too, like the parent company Quagliariello and Mr Romani, hope can be as wide, as serious and as precise as possible in the interests of our citizens.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u41	I would ask colleagues to be very brief in their voting announcements: in favour, against, a very brief illustration. D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, MPL, RI)). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that from what has been heard in relation to the illustration of the questions referred to the Court of Justice, it is confirmed that a particularly sensitive and complex subject such as the one before the House can end up with ideological assessments taking precedence over assessments which, in my humble opinion, should instead, on the subject, leave room for technical and scientific issues and be strongly supported by scientific assessments. I'm afraid that might happen. We have one possibility: that of overcoming the period of prejudice, for which I personally vote against, and of focusing on the amendments. In the amendment phase I believe there will be the possibility to identify a polar star, supported by common sense and reasonableness, that clears the field from any kind of ideological prevalence, restores rigor to the reasoning and allows the approach to a collegial decision that gives a position of primacy of our country, at international level, on a very delicate side. A decision that also allows us to overcome the impasse relative to rankings, so to speak, embarrassing that allow, for example, the United States of America to advise tourists not to visit Italy, that is to arrive in our country properly equipped and vaccinated. On the basis of these considerations, Mr President, I am voting against the preliminary rulings with the hope that the amendment phase will find the government's willingness and a calm and properly argued and documented debate. [[Applause from Senator Liuzzi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u44	BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, first of all I would like to ask that the vote be taken simultaneously by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The vote is by show of hands, Senator Buemi. BUEMI (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). However, it would be useful if in this case we could remember the names of those colleagues who, with a purely instrumental attitude, want to prevent what my generation expected of the State. My generation is that of polio and we little boys were looking forward to the State taking care of our future with regard to an illness that at that time represented a real danger for the younger generations. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE, PD and AP-CpE-NCD and Senator Sonego.]] In the light of that memory, I can only vote against the constitutional prejudices, because this is not about restricting the freedom of anyone, it is about making everyone responsible. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u45	I put to the vote the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator Stefani and other senators (QP1 text 2), Senator Taverna and other senators (QP2), Senator D'Anna (QP3), Senator Petraglia and other senators (QP4) and Senator Pepe (QP5). It's not approved. ENDRIZZI (M5S). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved. Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u46	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of the Law of Conversion of Decree Lorenzin in the Chamber allows some reflections to be made in order to try to clarify the issue of vaccines. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u47	I would ask Members who want to leave the House to do so in silence so that Senator Padua can speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u48	PADUA (PD). Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to make a note. Until some time ago, perhaps in a less medialy way than today's canons, there was a widespread commitment from Italian civil society to export the benefits of vaccinations to many Third World countries. For this reason, over the years, fundraising and awareness campaigns have been increased, with only one objective: to give the possibility, to children who did not have it, to be able to vaccinate from diseases that are part of the past in Italy thanks to the preventive action carried out by vaccines. In fact, it is also thanks to vaccines that life expectancy in the richest nations has doubled over the last hundred years. This is the cheapest medical intervention that has allowed to eradicate diseases that cause disastrous epidemics. According to WHO, vaccines save more than 7,000 people a day - one every five minutes. Therefore, the fact that in poor countries not all have access to vaccines is a serious issue of global health and social injustice. Now, although I think there is unanimity in believing that the maintenance in our country of high levels of coverage is an indispensable issue of public health (a fact for nothing taken for granted), it is possible, with rampant and absolute superficiality, to question the value of a formidable prevention tool, often in the name of alleged economic interests of pharmaceutical companies. In a nutshell: behindology and pure propaganda, aimed exclusively at supporting an anti-system approach. For example, the hepatitis B vaccine costs about 30 euros and the treatment of the disease comes to cost about 3,500 euros a year. Let's do some math. (17.56) (Follow Padua). Unfortunately, misinformation is one of the most serious symptoms of the malaise of our society, it grows on the wave of false news and bends some communication tools, such as social media, to its own ends. It is no coincidence that, in the field of health, the current National Prevention Plan recognises that, among the priorities to be addressed for the vaccination area, there is among others the attitude of distrust of the population in institutional proposals, as well as the lack of adherence of health workers to the vaccination offer. It is essential, however, to trust your doctor and your pediatrician: who better can recommend a young couple, for the sake of your child, on what to do for your health? It is absolutely essential, therefore, that the health authorities can well explain, in a persuasive and convincing way, the importance that cover vaccines, even in countries like ours in which thanks to them some diseases, present in other parts of the world, seem disappeared. Unfortunately, this widespread feeling of reluctance leads to rather serious problems: the current measles epidemic, for example, is caused by an accumulation of susceptible subjects among young adults, who have not been vaccinated by optimal cover over the last twenty years (in fact the average age of measles cases is around twenty-seven years). In the same period, however, apart from the decline recently recorded and justifying the government's supplementary intervention, the results obtained from vaccination prevention are evident: polio has been eliminated, diphtheria has been reset, tetanus has been severely reduced and now limited, as unfortunately confirm very recent episodes of news, not vaccinated. It is enough, then, a fairly simple reasoning to support the reasons for the measure: why would you expose yourself to the risk of a possible return of disease eradicated, remaining unarmed in the face of the vaccine decline? The underlying problem is poor communication in the medical-patient relationship, which is the pillar of a system of trust in terms of public health and prevention against prejudice and false beliefs. In any case, also in order to point out within the decree-law the importance of the role of health workers, both during the pre-conception phase and in the subsequent phase of accompanying the childbirth, some changes have been introduced that allow to increase the transparency on the information, to share with the citizens the necessary information and therefore increase the awareness of it. I believe that the rule on the strengthening of the role of family consultants, which play a very important supporting role for many Italian families, often the most in need. Health professionals, therefore, will also have to inform on vaccines, to give help and support to doubtful and uncertain mothers and dads, so as to increase the level of awareness and unsolve unfounded doubts and fears. The rules on pharmacovigilance have the same function, that is to structure a system in which there is more sharing of the results: on the other hand, in addition to sanctioning unfair behaviors, the task of the State is to support a correct, healthy and conscious parental responsibility. For this reason it must be strongly stated that those who do not vaccinate their children expose them to the highest probability of contracting serious diseases and increases the risk of infection for those children, immunodepressed or suffering from cancer (in Italy there are about 1,500), who cannot be vaccinated. It is not a mystery, but it is good to reiterate it: much of the vaccination hesitation and the distrust of citizens is related to fear of the side effects of vaccinations, but scientific studies and the pharmacovigilance network show that the adverse events recorded are almost all of a small extent (fever or rash, for example) and that the serious ones, however, are, fortunately, very rare and must also be demonstrated. Think - and this is a scientifically proven fact - that a child who contracts measles (the disease, to understand us) may have encephalitis with a probability of one in 1,500; only one child in a million vaccinated children may have a encephalitis, but in this case it must be checked that it really was the vaccine that caused it. But even if it were, between one in 1,500 in the case of natural disease and one in one million in the case of vaccination, I think there should be no doubt about choosing the minor risk. With this measure we will obtain not only a greater awareness but also an indispensable territorial homogeneity: this is the other fundamental point of a norm that, in line with the plan of vaccination prevention, aims at overcoming one of the other great anomalies of our country, that is the territorial differences. Homogeneity which therefore implies positive repercussions in terms of both vaccine coverage standards and quality of supply, in addition to the fact that the enhancement of prevention actions will allow to reach even the most at risk. Finally, the last thought goes to the changes introduced to the text of the decree-law in the Commission; it applies as an example to the complete computerization of the regional vaccine anagraphs, which will make the dissemination and exchange of data easier and faster, thus increasing awareness for health workers of the levels of vaccine coverage and increasing the confidence of citizens and citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u49	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u50	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government insists on the problem of the hypothetical health risks caused by infectious diseases, which are not documented, while it does not deal with the real gigantic epidemics, with millions of deaths, caused by degenerative pollution-related diseases and (the Ministers say) the unfair lifestyles, those imposed by industries and the mass media, but also by a state that dumps hazardous waste under the schools, under the roads and under the malls. Having said that, my position on vaccinations is known, but I think it is useful to summarize it briefly: I am not opposed to vaccinations in itself, just as I am not opposed to antibiotics or surgery. However, I am opposed to any obligation in medicine, because health protection only takes place with the knowledge of what is done and the participation of those who do it. I am opposed to the Lorenzin Decree-Law because epidemics are not in place, except those, all media, promoted by the Government: think of meningitis, so you do not understand why the obligation has not been imposed, in view of the reasons put forward by the Government. This measure creates serious organizational, health and school problems and frightens hundreds of thousands of parents. The question then arises of the neovaccinates, which, according to the same vaccination requirements, should be kept away from the weak subjects, which the decree-law in question wishes to protect. The expropriation, in fact, of the country's power parents (in the Commission we proposed the abolition of this provision) and does not inform the population so as to obtain proper participation; indeed, it pushes it to find escapism and tricks to save its children from an obligation imposed by a Nazi method. I remember that in Naples we are already equipped, if ever they were interested in solutions. Through compulsory schooling, the vaccination obligation is in fact required in order to overcome the obvious violation of the constitutional rights of the individual. The only people who will take advantage of this situation will - by chance - be the drug multinationals and a marginal fraction of the health system. Above all, however, there is a risk of an abnormal epidemic of vaccination damages, which exist and which are a real and recognized problem, but which the Government denies, despite the evidence and despite the funds allocated each year to compensate the victims, recognized by the State itself, that there are many, even if a minority, that it will no longer be possible to try to hide, as has happened until today, if the situation degenerates. In order to limit the damage, the possibility of single doses should be envisaged - of course with single doses we are out of patent and therefore multinational companies would not be so happy - and one should rely on the responsibility of doctors, who must discriminate on a case-by-case basis, because every human being is in himself, in science and conscience, free from the threat of radiation and censorship. I remember that many other doctors, who practically killed dozens, if not hundreds of people, were not disbarred. It is necessary, then, a system of verification of the components, which guarantees the safety of the drug and a monitoring of the patient, that guarantees the latter with respect to its possible predisposition to any adverse reactions: it is called the genetic profile of the drug. With this I conclude, with the hope that the Government will be able to repent, for what can happen as a result of the many adverse reactions. [[Applause from the LAG Group (DI, GS, MPL, RP)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u51	Senator Aiello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u52	Mr President, this is how we like to begin with the issue of vaccines: we believe that we can strongly say that vaccines are one of the main resources, in terms of public and individual health, given their significant impact, not only on the prevention of many infectious diseases, but also on the general health of the population. The World Health Organisation considers them to be biological medicinal products intended for the prophylaxis of infectious and non-infectious diseases, containing selected antigens capable of producing specific immune responses to pathogens or substances which are relevant to disease pathogenesis. President, the production processes are certainly increasingly sophisticated and managed according to specific quality systems. The data is clear. Vaccinations avoid millions of deaths from infectious diseases every year. However, one in five children does not receive life-saving vaccinations, which could avoid 1.5 million deaths per year, caused by preventable diseases. So, let's be careful, the vaccine cover has dropped all over Europe and those who claim that this is not an emergency are certainly in bad faith as far as we are concerned, that is, they do not realize that we are at the limit and that the risk is concrete. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Another hilarious aspect is the use of the World Health Organisation for convenience. The WHO has repeatedly pointed out the need for vaccinations, also stressing that the economic and social aspect, with appropriate vaccination policies, could also lead to significant returns, given the immunization, not only as regards the health of children and infant mortality, but also the reduction of poverty, fairness, production, education and the strengthening of health systems in general. Colleagues, we are faced with clear and unambiguous data from an epidemiological point of view. It is necessary to have the courage to take responsibility and translate data into rules that can guarantee the greatest possible coverage and, of course, at the same time, give space to scientific comparison. It would be advisable not to raise the tone, not to talk about confrontation, but to cooperate so that the guarantees are more and more certain. In this regard we would like to draw attention - because we consider it interesting - to the calendar for life signed by the Italian Society of Hygiene and Preventive Medicine (SITI), the Italian Society of Pediatrics (SIP), the Italian Federation of Doctors of General Medicine (FIMMG) and the Italian Federation of Pediatric Doctors (FIMP). These categories represent thousands of doctors and all have appealed to organisational aspects to ensure a fair and uniform coverage throughout the national territory. In their document, the four most important scientific societies also point out the fundamental importance of adequate enhancement of vaccination centres as well as the active role of all basic territorial care professionals: family doctors, paediatricians and outpatient specialists. Moreover, for them, it is rightly essential that operators are placed in the ideal position to promote an ever better quality of vaccination. Obviously the text also takes stock of how vaccines are delivered, which must start from the attention to the solutions tailored to the various health protagonists of the vaccination process, in order to reach the levels of coverage provided by the LEAs in the ways indicated throughout the national territory. All this dynamism on the part of scientific societies says a lot about how they are committed to spreading and favouring the vaccination culture in our country. Of course, the decree-law in question is the result of mediation, but the cornerstone of prevention remains firm. We believe that it is important to point out, in our humble opinion, that we would have liked to see the Higher Institute of Health more incisively. It is true that it has technically supported mediation, but it should not have, if it is true, that meningitis, just to give a current example, has proved to be a serious epidemiological problem and - as we know - the recommendation, most of the time, is neglected, with the risk of epidemic events in cascade, as happened in some Italian territories, precisely for meningitis. The logics of mediation and consultation of politics concern politics. The technicians are responsible for scientific and epidemiological evaluations, and therefore they are not flattened according to the needs of the policy. We must always maintain the ability to confirm, explain, evaluate data in a certain way, and therefore the correct and consistent scientific strategies. However, we cannot and must not leave the operators alone. Therefore, the decree-law will well come and the work of the Ministry, of the Health Commission and therefore of Parliament will well come, even if those who speak to you, in a very personal capacity, would have preferred a delegation to the Government to the decree-law. However, we understand that there is a rule to be adopted regarding health, especially health, and finding reliable information is often not easy. Sometimes, especially when it comes to vaccines, some information seems deceptive, even alarming, and creates fears and bewilderment. The decline in vaccination, recorded in recent years, shows that the emergence of safety problems, real or presumed, or the sole hypothesis of a risk associated with them, has a significant impact on immunization programs. Therefore, the correct and transparent communication plays an important role, on new evidence available regarding the safety aspects and the benefits of vaccinations. I would just like to mention one of the false reports that is most concerned about the immunity of the flock. There is a tendency to suggest that vaccination can be avoided as protected from the vaccine coverage of the community. This conviction is leading to a decrease in the number of immunized, making it easier to circulate viruses that also affect the many unfortunate children who cannot vaccinate for health problems. This has led in recent years to rates of vaccination coverage well below the limits required to ensure protection of flocks, with great risks, especially for the weakest. In this regard, I would like to quote the appeal of the President of the Parental Federation of Paediatric Oncoematology: Oncology patients are children who must be able to rely on the so-called flock immunity, i.e. the mass vaccination of all people with whom they come into contact, in order not to contract devastating, if not fatal diseases. It is unnecessary to stress the truthfulness of this appeal. In Italy the standard threshold of 95 percent is an illusion. That is why it is right and proper to intervene; indeed, action must be taken as soon as possible. When we talk about intervention we do not only refer to the introduction of the vaccination obligation, but also to post marketing pharmacovigilance activities that go beyond routine pharmacovigilance, in order to adequately monitor and evaluate any risks. Mr President, when a vaccine is created, its effectiveness is assessed by complex studies: for example, the risk of encephalitis following measles infection is about one case per 1,000 people who are ill; the risk of vaccination is less than one case per million people who are vaccinated. Then, it is the prerogative of political and parliamentary action to ensure the protection of health, safeguarding both the sick and the healthy. To do this, prevention is a fundamental and important investment tool through the role of vaccinations. Who can pick up the drastic positive change on the epidemiological scenario after their introduction? How many resources have been saved, in terms of hospital days, pharmacological treatments, home care, loss of productivity and, above all, how much less suffering? But in Italy many reason according to double standards. The absurd. If the media emphasizes the side effects of vaccines, we scream at the wolf and criminalize it all. If the media's talking about meningitis, we're going to vaccinate right away. Then we might ask ourselves: why do we not see in the decree-law the compulsory vaccination against meningococcus B and C or against pneumococcus C? We like to remember that meningitis will be a global problem in the future. As far as we are concerned, we firmly believe that there is no mediation on health that holds. Vaccine prevention is the cornerstone of the fight against many infectious diseases. There is a need to take full action and to check the work in progress, by acquiring scientific data that will enable experts to make the best possible assessment. But the reference data is acquired only and only after the interventions. Otherwise there are only words, theories, thesis, nothing more. Meanwhile, we are faced with a huge increase in circulating viruses and bacteria, of diseases preventable with vaccinations. In essence, this enhances the equation: less vaccination, more circulating agents, more infectious diseases, more risks. And this does not respond to a good social functioning of Italy. We believe that we must always give greater importance to scientific truths, to the recommendations that come from the world of science. The contrasts, the media amplifications proposed and imposed on citizens do not give good service to the community. To conclude, let's say that safety vaccine understood as zero side effects does not exist, as well as does not exist for any medication. Actually, the vaccine or drug is safe only if it exceptionally causes serious side effects, which are however considered acceptable because that vaccine protects against greater danger and greater collective damage. So, greater benefit of risk. Finally, we also note the competition problems. Unfortunately, this is essentially related to the structures of the vaccination industry, which to date fails or does not want to guarantee the single-dose. Here too we are asking for interventions, as we know is taking place by the Ministry, to seek compatible solutions. Then we appreciate what is being done. We also appreciate the work done in the Commission, because we have worked in synergy with many of our colleagues. And in the Commission we have also been promoters of the reduction of financial penalties, the halving of sanctions, the abolition of the reference to the risk of losing the country's power, which was not there. The establishment of the vaccine registry is also good. Therefore, for all these reasons, while remaining personally doubtful about the number of vaccines, because we would have liked that above all on meningitis there would be more incisiveness, we are still firmly convinced that we have done a good job. [[Applause from the Ap-CpE-NCD and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u53	Senator Puglisi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our country, the fulfillment of vaccination obligations was introduced in 1967. It provided that school directors and heads of public or private education institutions could not admit to school or examinations pupils who did not prove, with the presentation of a certificate issued under the law, that they had been subjected to compulsory vaccinations and re-accinations. This obligation was then transformed into a faculty in 1999, with the decree of the President of the Republic n. 355, providing that the director of the school, in case of failure to submit the certification, has the sole task of communicating the fact within five days for the appropriate and timely interventions to the company local health unit belonging to the pupil and to the Ministry of Health. The result of this choice was a drastic year-to-year fall in vaccinations, to the point of reaching the minimum threshold indicated by the World Health Organization as the threshold necessary to achieve the so-called herd immunity. As pointed out by the Higher Institute of Health itself, the difference between compulsory and recommended vaccinations, which could not be predicted by the legislators who introduced the first ones, has caused increasing problems because a large part of the population and even a part of the health workers have been wary of the recommended vaccinations, as if these were less important than the mandatory ones, without taking into account the fact that the latter too are fundamental to reducing their diseases. The instrument available to assess the degree of protection of the population against certain communicable diseases, as the rapporteur, Mrs Manassero, has explained, is precisely the periodic measurement of vaccine cover. 95 percent is the threshold recommended by the WHO for flock immunity. In fact, if 95 percent of the population were vaccinated, those who could not or wanted to vaccinate would also be protected. Since 2013 there has been a gradual decline in the number of vaccinated subjects, with the risk of developing epidemic outbreaks of diseases currently under control and even the reappearance of diseases considered to be eradicated in our country. As underlined by the National Vaccine Prevention Plan 2017-2019, in 2015 the average coverage for vaccinations against polio, tetanus, diphtheria, hepatitis B and cough was 93.4 percent. In this regard, I would like to remind you that unfortunately a one-month-old girl died in Bologna because of the cough, which has not been seen for decades. Although there are important differences between regions, only six manage to exceed the 95% threshold for polio vaccination, while 11 are even below 94 percent. As highlighted by the Ministry of Health, vaccination is one of the most effective and safe interventions available to public health for the primary prevention of infectious diseases. This practice brings benefits not only by direct effect on vaccinated subjects, but also indirectly by introducing protection in non-Vaccinated subjects. I would like to stress this point strongly because it is of crucial importance precisely for the debate that has developed around compulsory schooling and the right to access education. Vaccines have changed the history of medicine and have established themselves as a fundamental tool for reducing mortality and disease, profoundly modifying the epidemiology of infectious diseases. The use of the vaccine instrument has led to often resounding results such as the disappearance of smallpox, declared by WHO and eradicated from 8 May 1980 and polio, as Senator Buemi effectively said. Moreover, the success of vaccinations is paradoxically one of the main problems of their acceptance by the population, because the decrease in the frequency of diseases eradicated with vaccines has led to a decrease in the perception of the danger of these diseases, of their severity. Thus, it was first Emilia-Romagna to reinstate the vaccination obligation for registration in the nests of the Region, following Tuscany and Friuli-Venezia Giulia. I would like to recall in this House the judgment n. 20 of the TAR of Friuli-Venezia Giulia of 16 January 2017, which affirms the legitimacy of the decision of the city council of Trieste, which concerns the introduction of the obligation of vaccination as a requirement of access to municipal educational services for the age from zero to six years, because the most respectable protectionable individual interest, that is, the freedom of parents who, inspired by a precautionary principle, choose not to vaccinate their children, must regress with respect to the public interest, that is the extension of the vaccine coverage, in particular where it is concerned with the protection of health. There is not only the direct benefit in vaccinating their children, but that valuable indirect benefit that creates a safety net for non-vacciners. The right to education and access to school must therefore be guaranteed first of all to those girls and children who, because of very serious diseases, cannot be vaccinated and who would run serious risks of life when they had to come into contact, at school, with children who were not vaccinated. And here I appeal, from this House, to the families: please - as Senator Aiello mentioned earlier - trust the pediatricians and not the saints, trust scientists and public health, not the fake news that populate the network. Finally, I really want to thank the Senate Health Commission for its work and for accepting some of the amendments proposed by the Education Commission, of which I was also a signatory, on the exemption from teaching the vicars of the school leader and on a number of measures that will help schools to carry out this important task. I am the mother of three children and have always vaccinated them (mandatory and recommended vaccinations), not only and not so much to think about their health, but also to think about the health of the weakest subjects, those children who, for serious reasons, cannot be vaccinated. It is to them that we must first think. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u55	Senator Fattori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u56	Mr President, the Lorenzin Decree-Law was born to deal effectively with an objective problem, namely the decline in vaccine cover that has been observed for years, which has generated at least one emergency, that of measles. But both the method, that is the use of the decree-law, and the path of the provision, as well as its content, have been and are, in our opinion, even now inappropriate and ineffective. We come to the causes of this decline in vaccine coverage and analyze whether the Lorenzin Decree-Law is the right answer to solve the problem. The causes of this situation are many and they refer to a phenomenon that we define and that experts define as vaccine hesitation, a complex problem, caused by many components. In short, to increase the levels of vaccine coverage you need to operate on three levels. First of all, there is a need to increase confidence, i.e. to reassure users about the safety and effectiveness of vaccinations. Secondly, it is necessary to act on the motivation of users towards vaccinations, that is, overcoming that obstacle of laziness or simple carelessness, often caused by the poor perception of the risk of infectious diseases, of which we no longer see the devastating effects, because they have disappeared. Finally, it is necessary to work on the convenience, i.e. on the removal of barriers that may hinder vaccination and that in reality there are many, such as the opening hours of the clinics (often the parents both work), the cost of vaccinations, the immediate availability of vaccines, the follow-up of children by the vaccination centres and the long waiting lists, which actually hurt us as parents. Decree-Law No 73, through the introduction of the vaccination obligation, will certainly have immediate effects on the motivation, since it precludes access to the nest and to the kindergarten to those not vaccinated and also provides for fines, but it will be completely ineffective on the removal of the objective obstacles to vaccination, as it allocates a really ridiculous amount for the territorial centers and the staff and - what worries us most - does not foresee any plan in this sense. But the obligation, ladies and gentlemen, will have a devastating effect on trust. In fact, it has already tightened up and will further exacerbate the conflict by all those anti-vaccinist movements. (18.29) (Following FACTORS). But let us come to the path of the decree-law. The decree-law Lorenzin was published in its final version eighteen days after the initial press release (May 19), which was followed by a flood of press releases; an unusual temporal gap, which exasperated the souls of parents and school workers and health care workers, who did not know what to expect and how to prepare. At its appearance in the initial version, with twelve compulsory vaccines (only in Europe) and exaggerated coercive measures (very high fines and even the subtraction of the country's power), it had the effect of exacerbating even more souls. In its course in the Commission, the number of compulsory vaccines has fallen from twelve to ten, of which three in a temporary manner; the sanctions have been reduced and the hateful question of the withdrawal of the country's power has been eliminated. In short, the mountain first threatened to give birth to an elephant and created chaos and destabilization, and then create a tiny mouse. Let us now come to the content of the decree-law under consideration. To deal with the only epidemic in Italy, measles - in fact, it has so far registered more than 3,000 cases in 2017, endangering the health of immunodepressed children - would have been sufficient to introduce temporary mandatory measures, of three or five years, only for this particular vaccination. With regard to the type of obligation, I would point out that Germany has recently chosen a limited obligation for measles to provide information on vaccination and not on actual vaccination, in order to grant access to nursery school and asylum. On the other hand, the choice to force vaccination with punitive measures is not in line with predominant practices in vaccination strategies in developed countries and does not follow the strategic group of immunization experts. However, the thing that worries us most is that the strong emphasis of the so-called Lorenzin decree on enlargement and deepening of the compulsory vaccination in Italy does not include any satisfactory plan to improve the measures of persuasion or recommendation, as proposed by the 5 Star Movement in the bill at the first signature of Senator Taverna, deposited in the Senate. These are recommendation measures widely considered by international experts to be the best way to achieve high rates of vaccine coverage, to which we all strive, more effective than any compulsory measure. There are, in fact, no adequate resources dedicated to the objective of improving and expanding the network of vaccination centres and their personnel, whose not renewal is unfortunately dependent on efficiency. There are then no exemptions, more than legitimate, in case of vaccination hesitation, including - for example - religious or philosophical hesitations, which deserve attention. Nor are there plans to overcome the hesitation and the measures that will be put in place to remove practical obstacles to vaccination, which afflict Italian families with very long waiting lists, are not described in detail. I would like to point out that where I live my first appointments for meningitis are in 2019. In short, we believe that, before forcing people who do not want to immunize themselves, it would be wise to facilitate the vaccination of those who want it. Nor is it clear what measures will be taken to update, expand and harmonise vaccination registers at regional and national level, thus allowing a real-time evaluation of the level of vaccine coverage and, above all, the frequency of information on vaccine-related adverse events, which so much concern citizens. Transparency in this area would have been important. Finally, the measure does not contain measures to increase the overall level of confidence in recommended vaccinations, because some are obliged and others are not. Some important vaccinations, such as meningococcal and HPV vaccinations, will therefore remain recommended, without it being clear how you will recommend them. The so-called Lorenzin Decree does not provide for the establishment of an independent consultative body, modelled on the technical immunization advisory groups recommended by the WHO - the famous NITAGs - on which I have tabled an agenda, rejected in the Commission, which I hope will be taken into consideration in this House. This advisory body should include in its list only non-governmental and non-industrial experts from the fields of basic science, as well as representatives of associations of health service providers and defence groups. I remember that the national vaccination prevention plan for the three-year period 2014-2016 saw an intervention of over 600 million euros per year, equal to 3.5 percent of the Italian pharmaceutical expenditure, thus doubling the previous costs. This Plan was drawn up with the participation of experts from public health authorities and representatives of scientific societies in the panel. However, scientific companies, not being required to publish their financial statements, may give rise to concerns about transparency and possible conflicts of interest with pharmaceutical companies. Let's also remember the case Pecorelli, president of AIFA, removed precisely because of conflict of interest with the pharmaceutical companies in the drafting of the National Plan vaccines. An independent and conflict-free supervisory body would certainly have a powerful effect on citizens' confidence in institutions which for a long time - precisely because of conflicts of interest, as well as for many other reasons - have not been credible. I therefore ask you to review the decision to reject our agenda. In conclusion, the vaccination obligation represents for us the renunciation of a quality service. The decree-law Lorenzin represents a missed opportunity for a constructive dialogue that, as 5 Star Movement, we had hoped to establish with the deposit of a detailed bill, based on the most civilized mode of recommendation/persuasion. We believe that this is the failure of a state which once again renounces to be authoritative and becomes authoritarian. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u57	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u58	Madam President, I would first like to clarify the position of the North League in relation to this decree-law from the outset. Unlike other right-wing parliamentary groups - and I refer in particular to the Forza Italia Group - we believe that this decree-law cannot be corrected, but the same must simply be withdrawn or rejected, because it is wrong in its contents, in its premises and in its objectives. It was a mistake to vote against the preliminary constitutionality; we are surprised that the Forza Italia Group has taken such an attitude. We absolutely want to highlight our position with regard to a measure, carried out by the majority, the Democratic Party and the Government, with great arrogance and irresponsibility regarding a very sensitive issue such as the health of children and the serenity of Italian families towards a measure that intimately concerns the family life of our communities. We are talking about a measure that should have the objective of making the health of our children, of the new generations safer. However, I would like to make it clear that this decree-law does not actually see Parliament divided between those who are in favour of the use of vaccines and those who are against them. This is a false problem; things are not in these terms. The Lega Nord Group also believes that the inclusion of a series of vaccines in our country's culture has been a great social achievement that has done the good and health of our children, our communities. That is not the theme. The theme is whether with this decree-law the attitude of families towards vaccination will be more trustworthy or more distrustful. Well, on this point we have our certainty: with this measure we establish a total distrust of our families with regard to a procedure, that of compulsoryness, which will lead us to think that, behind coercion, behind an act of force, there are interests that go beyond the health of children and that they could represent the interests of few towards those whom, instead, we should protect. And this consideration can be demonstrated by the many spontaneous manifestations that took place in the last month, since the decree-law was issued. Many normal, very normal families, not necessarily antivaccines, have felt the need to manifest their dissent by going down to the square with their children. They have done so in many cities and have done so recently in Pesaro with a great event that has seen the involvement of tens of thousands of people. This was to make Parliament and the Government reflect and, instead, even in the face of this spontaneous mobilization, we have gone on our way with great arrogance, with great protection, almost as if we wanted to corroborate the view that behind this measure there are interests that go beyond the health of our communities and our families. The underlying theme is that, behind this coercion attitude, behind a measure that aims to prohibit families from enrolling their children in kindergartens and kindergartens if they do not comply with the rule that requires vaccination not for four types of vaccination, but even for ten, there is the arrogance of politics. There is the arrogance of those who have made a decision and intended to plan it consciously first with a campaign of alarmism compared to phantom and fake epidemics, to prepare the ground and raise public awareness that this decree-law was necessary. This was the first falsehood. It was the first guilty act of the government that planned this measure. In the second instance, the Government did not present a proposal for a law that could easily be discussed in Parliament in the necessary time, given the importance of the issues dealt with, but acted forcefully with a decree-law. And he will probably intend to conclude the legislative process even with confidence, with the last act of force compared to a very weak Parliament, the current one, which has as its sole objective to prolong its life beyond the actual representativeness of our country. What are the conclusions? The decree-law under consideration will not favor an attitude of confidence on the part of families towards vaccinations, but it is awakening the doubt that behind the procedures envisaged there are interests other than the health of children; that there are other objectives and the will to realize a sort of experimentation of a compulsory vaccination model in our country using our new generations, children from zero to two years, as a sort of guinea pig, experimental group to verify the effect of the type of approach envisaged, which is based not on conviction and trust, but on strength. But by force you will never be able to gain the trust of your parents, and this is the most serious mistake you are making. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] We believe in another model, the one implemented - for example - by Veneto since 2007, which has materialized through non-obligatoryness, through extensive information on the usefulness of vaccination and an action of comparison with families and anti-vaccine associations, to make it clear that, behind the desire to propose vaccination of children, there is the real interest in protecting their health. This was the model to marry, the winning model that allowed the Veneto to reach very high percentages (92.6 percent of vaccinations). And it is also evident the bad faith of the Ministry of Health, because the data made known indicating a fantomatic 85 percent in Veneto are fake, having to calculate not on children from zero to two years, but on the whole population of the Region, where the percentage of vaccination has reached - I repeat - 92.6 percent. It is evident that certain families develop the belief that vaccination is useful even after the second year of age of their children. And so the analysis, the numbers, the accounts, the statistics of the Ministry of Health are clearly and blamefully false. Behind this decree-law there is an action of force on the convictions of our families, who have manifested on more than one occasion, but have not been heard, and have not found room even on the media. And you ignore them and step on them. See that the anger outside this palace is growing, mistrust is growing and you are undermining a relationship of trust between our communities and our families towards politics and those who are legislators here. You are blind and deaf compared to what happens outside this palace. This is a very serious fault, which you do in every measure you are approving at this time. You are deaf and blind; you go on your way; you trample on the rights of freedom of families; you question the will of our families to protect their children: it is madness. I believe that freedom is a sacrosanct principle and, obviously entrusted to the information of our regions, of our health system and also to the relationship of trust that must arise between institutions and citizens, it must represent the main way. You have chosen an opposite path, based on an act of force, of empire (decree-law, trust), leaving unheard the protests and those who oppose. It is sad in this Parliament that, apart from a few parliamentary groups, among which I am honored to be able to count what I belong to, the North League, there are few Members who have opposed this which is a veritable folly. We will fight through the debate on the amendments. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] And we will do so to the very end, because we believe that you are making a very serious mistake, which goes against the health of our children and the confidence of our families in politics. I hope that we can stop what is a real affront to the relationship of trust and there is a rethink by the parliamentary groups on the decree-law, which I hope will be blocked. The North League will do everything that is possible and that is in its power to achieve this objective. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u59	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u60	Madam President, at the end of the senatorial term, after having done half a parliamentary term as a Member of Parliament, I have repeatedly wondered what experience I have drawn, what I have learned, and unfortunately I have made negative considerations. I finally realized that power has its own liturgy, its own praxis and that democracy is obviously an infancy. The praxis of those who govern is to say: I have the numbers and I have the reason for the numbers, even if a fool like me, who drinks on liberal writings, remembers that according to Popper in a democracy it doesn't matter who governs, but it matters how to control who governs and that democracy is not the tyranny of the majority. Of course, between this assumption and the practice that I have been able to see applied both to the Chamber of Deputies and to the Senate of the Republic there is an abysmal spread. I am inspired by the presence of Senator Comrade, enlightened master of liberalism, to remind myself of the difference - perhaps in this lies the cause of what I blame - between American democracy, that is, between the Charter of Philadelphia, and the concept of democracy that we inherited from Paris, from the French revolution. I remember that a historian like Nolte makes a substantial difference between the two types of constitution, claiming that the Constitution born in Philadelphia imagines a state built around the citizen, so much so that it is made - excuse ignorance, but I don't remember how many - of a few articles and amendments. We, on the other hand, have drawn up a comprehensive Constitutional Charter, made up of a hundred and more articles, and we have subjected the citizen to the prerogatives of the State, which sees him not as a part of itself, but as a part different from itself. So much so that, in order to discuss the insurgent disputes between the State and the citizen, it was necessary to invent the administrative law, that series of rules of positive law that governs the relationship between the subject citizen and the master State. We find ourselves in the typical circumstance that the ethical State, that is, a State conceived as a plural entity, indicates to the citizen what is his good and obliges him to vaccinate his children, expropriating him of the natural law of the country power and, therefore, of the right and duty to provide for the care, education and health of his son, because it is the State itself that tells him how to do it. We can also go away from the people because, if this is the model of state, we are all subjects. Then there will be the subject who is the President of the Senate, there will be the subject who commands nothing, what the President of the Council or the President of the Republic will do, but we are all subjects. I say this because I believe that colleagues who are on the other side and do not think like me are not fools or fools. Evidently they have a concept of the state and its relations with the citizen other than mine. I say that man is the bearer of rights and freedoms, that a great liberal sociologist and philosopher, Isaiah Berlin, calls negative freedom, that is, freedom and rights that are not in the availability of any power. And the country's power is one of these, as is the right to freedom of expression. There are rights that we bear beyond the social contract. The ethical state, on the other hand, claims that the citizen has no right, not even the natural ones, because it is the State itself that indicates his good. It is Jacobine logic: when Robespierre guillotined a person, he told her that she was infected, that the infected society had infected her and cut off her head for her good, because it was necessary to purify society. Why do we want to force parents to vaccinate their children, if there is no imminent and imminent danger, so as to justify that, in the general interest, of course, the interest or subjective right should succumb? Liberals claim that the freedom of your fist ends where the freedom of my nose begins. If, however, there is no epidemic danger; if there is no evidence of morbidity and increased mortality, why don't we have time to dissuade the opposites and reassure moms and parents and take them out of power by one ear and tell them that they have to vaccinate their children? Compulsory vaccinations have gone from fourteen to ten: we had a discount, obviously because this is the period of sales. You'll explain to us why you canceled those three vaccines and not three more. Well, he forces himself to vaccinate his children at three and twelve months of age. I'm a biologist and I'm not a clinician - here we have eminent clinicians - but in my little bit I've learned something. I have learned - for example - that in the intestine there are only the plaques of Peyer, which produce type T and B lymphocytes, which intervene in the case of infection or long-term memory. I happen to be a parent of a boy who was diagnosed as a child with a food panallery. Well, had it not been my son, he would have died, because he had to live with goat's milk, horse meat and Schär's products, which thirty years ago were really expensive. Where did that food panallergy come from that which today is treated with lactic ferments and no longer with cortisone? We have seen that some lactic ferments go to stimulate the lymph nodes present in the intestine and we miraculously passed the acute phase of the disease. They were things I didn't know. Thirty years ago I went to Miss Luisa Businco, daughter of Lino Businco, discoverer of histamine, who made me a recipe and sent me to the baker, and I told my wife that she was crazy because, instead of sending us to the pharmacy, she sent us to the baker. My son was also allergic to antiallergic. We didn't know these things. Today we know and know that a simple lactic ferment has solved the problem of a child who has become man and can eat anything. I say this because, if then someone had taken me by the ear and convinced me or forced me to do something, I would have rebelled, as thousands of mothers and fathers will rebel because they do not understand what we are talking about. What, then, does it cost us to use the principle of precaution and common sense? What is science without doubt? I'm not talking about that shit in the air. Is there a medicine that is not based on evidence? A colleague mentioned scientific societies a moment ago. Find me someone who doesn't get the money from Big Pharma. Find me a single search for groups that have not been directly or indirectly funded. We have a law that has been traveling between the House and the Senate for five years: passed unanimously in the House, then passed to the Senate by the end of the legislature; then it was passed in the Senate and now it is in the House. It indicates the legal and scientific path for research, especially for new pathologies. Why do we not approve of this measure? We're gonna call all the partners and put them around a table. There are 50 million available; we call two prestigious Italian universities and start an experiment not on vaccines, whose importance nobody discusses, but on their safety, their purity and the nano particles contained in them. The electron microscope isn't wrong. I'm sorry about the medical gentlemen, but the biologists have some weapons. There's plastic, steel, heavy metals and tungsten in there. Inoculate these substances to tens to three and twelve months who can tell us what is the disorder to the physiology of the immune and immune apparatus of those children? We're in a hurry. Can't you wait a year and a half? Can't we do a search? Does the Minister have to rely on Glaxo? Who do you have to trust? Do you have to rely on the reports of professors whose research is paid and funded by Big Pharma? Do we have a ring to our noses? This is a few billion euro deal and why are we in a hurry? The great Andreotti said that thinking wrong is a sin, but often guesses. Poggiolini and De Lorenzo - the latter has done the most beautiful health reform that still exists, that Rosy Bindi has not managed to destroy - they were corrupted - by chance - Glaxo to make the vaccines compulsory. We're making a dozen mandatory. I am not a retrologist, nor a cheap moralist, but what greater guarantee can be given to the public if not transparency? To a mother who is afraid do you want to bring the immunity of the flock, when you know well that, after ten or twelve years, artificial immunity disappears? I'm a professional analyst, and I see dozens, hundreds of cases of vaccinated children who, when tested for hepatitis B antibodies, turn out to have no more antibodies. That's the evidence, it's the practice - I'm nobody and I'm not a theory - of a provincial analyst, a poor person talking to people. Why must we be strong with the weak and weak with the strong, Mr. Undersecretary? Why not call the virologists and pediatricians? Talk to scientific societies, because it suits you. It's an economic-financial circuit. It is said in Naples: "Acquaiò, is the water fresh?" And the sink answers: "It's like snow." The other one says: But I wanted it warm. And the aquarium: "So it's like the broth." Who do you ask? Call the dissenters, those who have the titles, of course, to be such. Professor Mantovani, that of the electronic microscope, invited citizens to read the liar of the type C meningococcal vaccine to see how in it it is written that one does not know what is in it. On the other hand, we have a military drug institute. We could do single-dose and pure vaccines, like the one for cats I referred to in my previous speech. Why don't we do it? Why do we have to buy vaccines? You emulate that statism and ethical state, so much so that you want to force citizens and bend them to your will, then you turn to private individuals to provide you with vaccines. Why don't you make the vaccines? Are you or are you not statists? Why do you not make a public invitation to tender, specifying that vaccines to be supplied to the Italian State must not contain impurities? You say they cost more. Sure! And why do they have to risk the children, excuse me? So - as you can see - I could make a hundred disputes and mention - as I have already done before - that many diseases have disappeared without vaccines; the cough and diphtheria disappeared in 1990, the year in which we began to vaccinate. The plague and cholera have disappeared, just as polio has disappeared: in this case because of the vaccine, which we did not do against the plague and cholera. The context, the nutritional and sanitary conditions have changed; because one disease is established, three conditions are: bacterial virulence, the number of bacteria or viruses and the organic predisposition. Why do you want the Italians to believe that if they do not give their children twelve vaccines, three and twelve months, they risk? It is true that morbidity and mortality increase in measles, but how many cases of cerebellar damage have we had in Italy in vaccinated children? I bring back a heartbreaking letter from a mother, in which she says that, as soon as she was vaccinated, her son began to have problems. Her family doctor told her not to worry, because small neurophysiological disorders did not depend on vaccines. She told her she felt safe and her mother kept vaccinating her son. Then they addressed it to the Carlo Besta Institute in Milan, where they told her it was an independent disease and the vaccines had nothing to do with it. After four years they sent her the certificate: they give cerebellar post-vaccine. What do we tell this mother, undersecretary Pharaoh? If you expect it at the Ministry and tell you this, what do you answer? Then common sense is needed. If there are no magicians, you can expect, you can argue, you can get a quality of vaccines that exceed of emblée every exception. But what nanopathologies? There are no heavy metals here. That's the point. And instead, we got up one morning and said we had to break Greece's kidneys. But why don't you worry about the fact that in Egypt the cure for HCV, instead of 25,000-30,000 euros, costs 900 dollars? How is that possible? Doesn't that bother you? In two financial statements, you said that you would evaluate public hospital facilities, compared to the break-up between costs and benefits of 10%. Then, you brought it to 5%. In Campania, where you have finally decided to appoint a commissioner, public hospital spending is four and a half billion a year. Calculate what those hospitals collect. The DRG, that is the criterion of the tariff used with the private, is pairs to 1,7 billion euros. There are, that is, three billions of difference between what we spend and how much they make us. I repeat three billion. And this is the situation in Campania. Of the 110 billion that we give as a fund, we throw half into waste. 40 percent of health workers are not health workers. Be aware of the bureaucracy, the pachyderm that feeds itself. And instead, we have the vaccine problem and we want to show the muscles to moms and dads with vaccines. I conclude with great calmness, because I really respect everyone. But when I see that common sense rules are not used by people of common sense, I no longer believe in the honesty of intent. And I don't believe it, because who is honest doesn't mean hasty causes or causes that can be contradicted. The deal is big and we have to be nobody's tool. We must put ourselves on the side of the citizens: on the side, however, not of those who must be taken by the ears, but of those who must be reassured that the State is theirs and no part different from the State. And it doesn't matter what Lorenzin says, poor Lorenzin. It matters what the people say. We must be an expression of the people. And when we get on the weakest side, we always get on the best side. Brecht said, "We sat on the wrong side because all the other places were occupied." [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group and Senator Comrade.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u61	Senator Silvestro is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u62	Madam President, I do not want to retrace what has been said in their speeches by the rapporteur and the previous Members. They, with different reasons and also with interesting thoughts and reflections, have intended to analyze the draft law under consideration, which I hope will be approved, trying to make clear what has been the path, what have been the motivations and also the moments of doubt and perplexity. However, they feel that they must support a significant path that, unlike what they heard earlier, is certainly not the one highlighted by Senator D'Anna. I also believe that I am also a living emblem of the fact that, perhaps, all of us vaccinated are still here with an efficient neurological implant and a good state of health, which I hope will continue to last. I do not want to go into this, but I want to highlight a few points. I agree on the relevance to the individual and collective health and well-being of preventive vaccination processes. It's an important fact. We have discussed, discussed and analyzed so much, and certainly not from now on, but from ancient times. I agree with the important role that vaccines have had and continue to have in order to eradicate, contain and minimize some serious and devastating pathological forms for individuals, families and communities in which these children and children are included; communities that are also the same in which we are included and in which we want to bring a contribution of competence, reflection, logic and intellectual honesty. I also highlight the commitment that not only the 12th Senate Commission but the entire PD Group (and not only) have intended to make available to analyze the issue we are now debating and to try to reconcile two important needs in my opinion that develop in the measure: the freedom and individual rights of people on the one hand and the interest and collective responsibility on the other. I believe that these two elements must be noted, that we must emphasize this attempt to find a just contemperation between two very important values and that we must acknowledge that it becomes an added value to have found a form of contemperation of these two great principles and values that we intended to pursue in the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 73 of 2017. In this story many people have spoken of scientism to comment on choices, because based on the belief of science as the only valid knowledge. I would like to know what else we should base our decisions on, what other valuable element we could rely on and rely on. I really don't understand what reflections and reasonings are about when it comes to scientism. Others have spoken of useless authoritarianism, because we live in a state unable to govern complexity. I would really like it to be explained what is meant by useless authoritarianism and what is instead the authority deriving from a serious and rigorous analysis of the repercussions and contents that we are analyzing and of what is for our small fellow citizens the meaning that we give to their protection and coverage. I would therefore like to understand how we can talk about useless authoritarianism and a state unable to govern complexity. This expression would describe us, but it does not seem to me that this inability to govern has been highlighted in this time period and throughout the course of this legislature. We do not think we always have everyone's consent, but I think we should hope for intellectual honesty on the part of many. However, I do not understand why there is a lack of adequate and appropriate thought to the extent of the problem; it seems to me that we are debating and we are working precisely to find an adequate response to the extent of this problem, that we would like to be attacked and resolved in a less ideological, less smoky, less fuzzy and richer in serious and rigorous content. I do not believe that this should be placed and thrown into the ancient logical and thought antinomies. I do not think that this argument lends itself to this kind of logic, nor do I think that it should be dealt with according to ideological paradigms; instead, I believe that it must be outlined, studied and resolved in the concreteness of decision-making. We must decide what is the greatest good to protect: it cannot be the individual good of 60 million Italians; it must be good for the whole community. We need to have the ability to think about what is the most positive impact for our community on this issue. I therefore believe that we must reflect, study and try to be concrete in deciding and trying to understand how much, with the decisions that we will take through this bill, we stand or not to protect those who have no other weapons than to trust a State (which we at this moment try to represent dignifiedly) that wants to protect the criticalities of these people, their weaknesses and their difficulties. A state that strives to ensure, for example, that children who cannot be vaccinated can attend schools without fear and fear and can be an integral part of the social fabric in which, with their families, they are already included. This we must try to do, not rely on strange theories and above all on the mass media logics cultivated in social media, without any scientific evidence and without talking about scientism. Some say there have been and there are scientific abuses. It does not seem to me that in the overall process of analysis and discussion of the text of conversion there have been many changes, additions and attention to the contemperation between the scientific indications and the values of so many citizens, the cultural status of as many citizens, the widespread need to understand, to be heard and accepted. And it is precisely in this sense that the text has been modified, contesting the constrictive necessity due to an objective lowering of the rate of vaccine coverage with the availability, confirmed and included in the text, of some redefinings for certain obligatoryities and recommendations, in relation to the epidemiological trend and to the general state of evolution and of vaccine coverage. But again, the political commitment to the search for a mediated point and for the involvement not only of the families, but also of the institutions involved, has led to numerous changes to the text, which eliminates, among other things, any reference to the statue of the previous text concerning parental responsibility, which significantly decreases the financial penalties, which places much and further attention on the needs to redefine the vaccination calendar of a single according to the needs of the same or the family, which refers to what is widely and correctly highlighted and indicated in the national plan of vaccination prevention. I also believe that the part of the text relating to the communication and information initiatives on vaccinations is particularly significant. It is important that immediately the Ministry of Health promotes initiatives of communication and institutional information, to illustrate and promote knowledge of the provisions inherent in the article, as well as that there is a well-defined relational network between the health structures containing the vaccination sites and the training structures, in order to optimize the communicative and operational interventions and thus contribute to achieving the results placed by the law that we are preparing to vote. It is known to all and we know that the higher the number of immunized individuals, the less likely it is that the susceptible individual may come into contact with the so-called pathogen, which consequently, not finding individuals available as receptive, circulates less, thus producing a decrease in the overall risk of group or flock. In this regard, it is important to call for immunity from the flock, even if someone diminishes it. The immunity of flocks, therefore, can only be based on the culture of responsibility, on the awareness of the impact of their own choices and behaviour on the whole community. I believe that everyone's commitment to spreading the culture of responsibility and social cooperation can, in a short time, lead to the overcoming of certain obligations, in favour of positive and freely aware behaviour, that everyone's commitment produces the freedom of all. Finally, a thought of professional gratitude to the doctors, nurses and all the operators who will have to commit themselves to ensuring the working processes underlying the measure that we are hopefully going to approve. Thank you for what they are already doing and that they will do even more for this important problem, which must be overcome as such, to be defined as something that involves the whole community. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u63	Senator De Pin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on this measure I would like to stress that any anti-vaccine or anti-racist and radical anti-racist position is superficial and childish. The historical usefulness of vaccines in order to eradicate diseases from our continent that have caused thousands of deaths in the past cannot be called into question. As a result of mass vaccination, diseases such as polio and diphtheria have been eradicated and the benefits of such prophylaxis are in fact indisputable. Having said that, it should be noted that the method imposed by the decree-law, i.e. simultaneous vaccination for the aforementioned diseases, also at an age when the immune system is not even fully formed, certainly creates much perplexity, both for the number of vaccines (above what is expected in any European country), and for the cumulation, both for the metallic substances that this prophylaxis involves, and also for the viral strains, even if attenuated, which are inoculated at the same time. This problem should have been addressed in a more thoughtful way, without any foreclosures or acceptances of such a method. It is not possible for a party such as that of which I am a member, which makes constitutional legality its cornerstone, not to strongly stigmatize the way in which this practice has been established. Once again, in total disregard of the rule referred to in Article 77 of the Constitution, the Government has given itself the right to use the instrument of the decree-law without there being those conditions of extraordinary necessity and urgency that legitimize it. That is not enough, it also puts trust. The measure on the obligation to immunize could and should have been a bill to be submitted to Parliament for the necessary discussion and approval, there being no serious situation to be immediately regulated. This renders the measure unlawful and invalid from the formal point of view. Another serious issue that involves the democratic nature of the measure is the heavy sanction that the Government wanted to introduce, namely the loss of the country's power over the child not vaccinated. Now, on the other hand, there is an increase in inequality, because the rich will be able to choose freely, while those who do not have the means will have no choice. This double-track central-left government has a punitive vision for those who are not rich, in spite of Article 32 of the Constitution, who are only concerned about the needy (I refer to the sanctions now envisaged). Ultimately, the measure adopted by Minister Lorenzin seems more like a favor to pharmaceutical multinationals, not well weighted and issued through the forcing of the instrument of the decree of urgency. Italy is demanding respect for the Constitution in favour of a modus operandi based on scientific data and widely shared, given the issues so delicate. Madam President, I should like to inform the House that I will be the first to rise up against this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u65	Madam President, the debate is quite important, and yet - it is a paradox - we are in an empty Chamber, such as that of the speeches at the end of the sitting. While the squares are full, as we saw at the event last weekend, the debate in this House takes place with empty majority benches. This is a pity, because it gives a little the idea of superficiality, but above all of the disinterest with which the arguments that are brought by those who do not agree with the measure under consideration are addressed. This disappoints us very much because it is very important both because it impacts very strongly on the lives of citizens, and because the Government has decided to provide you with a decree-law, i.e. through a method that allows it to enter into the choice, defining very tight limits for Parliament to intervene and also for citizens to act, through parliamentarians, by making changes. Madam President, I do not think I have been the only one in recent days to gather dozens of requests, through e-mails, phone calls and even the direct meeting on the streets of citizens who have urged me to reflect on this decree-law. I had the opportunity to follow the process of examining the measure in the Commission, and the bitterness and disappointment was also very strong on that occasion. Once again we are faced with a measure that is promoted using the excuse - let us call it that - of emotion. It is not by chance that in recent days the press have emphasized some dramatic cases of measles and poor health of young people not vaccinated to induce citizenship to ask the legislator to intervene immediately on the discipline of vaccines with the adoption of a decree-law. I don't like these things. I am certainly not a person inclined to believe in readings, let us also call them organized, conspiracy of similar situations; but certainly the conjunction of a public opinion that, for the part that interests, of course, has been oriented, with quite shocking cases, as I said before, to look at this measure carefully, does not correspond to reality, because in recent days we have also seen a square fill up. What did the people who went to the square ask? To be free in choice. The choice of freedom that applies in other areas cannot be less important; on the contrary, it must be even more so when it comes to health. Article 32 of the Constitution specifically addresses the legislator as to how it should be limited in the provisions of law binding on health treatment. This measure, although the preliminary rulings were rejected earlier, is objectively unconstitutional. I am very sorry to have also seen some acrobatics by some opposition group or that such is defined - I think of Forza Italia - that he declares that he wants to go and evaluate the whole of the amendments by voting against the constitutional prejudices. In fact, let us remind our fellow citizens that if the questions referred to the House by us and the other oppositions had been approved, this measure would no longer have taken place, it would have stopped. To declare, instead, as we have heard before, that the vote would have been contrary to the prejudices (so favorable to the government) supporting the iter of this decree-law is a Machiavellismo as well as a form of false opposition that we do not understand precisely because in this case we are talking about the health of the citizens. You see, President, so many e-mails have arrived: from the dramatic one to the important one from the political point of view. Some write as a mother: I'm a worried mother: what future will my son have? What path will it follow? Evaluate my case, assess the circumstances. Evaluate health issues. That is why we have not seen these aspects of freedom in the work of the Commission. They are e-mails addressed to all senators, not only to myself: there are dozens and dozens of them; requests to vote no: say no to this decree-law, beyond the political groups (which here are out of place; here is the future at stake): Do so at least for his children and for the children of his children. What future will Michele Bovo and his family have? Eleonora Pilotto? A lot of people, a lot of people: we received them all. In view of this, there would be a question as to why the Government has once again decided to close the measure by a night session of the Commission. The experience of the Commission's nocturnal sessions does not support the goodness of the measure. I still remember very vividly the experience of the Commission and then of the House that a number of important measures were put to the vote at night. I am referring to the amendment of the Constitution, which was wrecked at the behest of the voters and the electoral law, which was later declared unconstitutional by the Court itself. I am thinking of other legal provisions on which you have forced your hand: jobs act rather than good school, reform of public administration; broken and demolished measures shot to death for inconstitutionality. Once again, however, you have the arrogance to impose a measure on the country. It is typical of the left, of a certain type of left: the state must intervene for everything that citizens do not understand. In the specific case, then, there are also issues that leave quite perplexed. Madam President, it is a few hours ago that a question has been put, and I am told by some of my fellow Senators from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 1-MDP, with which the government is asked for clarity regarding relations with certain pharmaceutical companies that have been involved in financing. This is unfortunately a leitmotiv, that of the relations with the lobby, which marked in negative the work of the Government. To find ourselves today still with this kind of measure, with these kinds of objections or, if we prefer, of ghosts who are behind it, makes everything I do not know whether to say grotesque or, worse still, even hypocritical. In this question, of which I have an excerpt, we ask whether it answers the truth that Professor Walter Ricciardi, director of the Institute of Public Health until 2015 and now President of the Higher Institute of Health (remember that he is the technical-scientific body of the National Health Service), who has played a significant role in the preparation of the vaccination prevention plan 2017-2019 and in particular within the interinstitutional working group for vaccination strategies, coming to intervene in a very concrete way on the body of the amendments and on the same predisposition of the decree-law, both the person who has an important role within the Catholic University, in the specific role for the health branch and, at the same time - as the interrogators ask - if conditions of conflict of interest are created between the function of doctor and the function in this case of representative of other interests (I think of pharmaceutical companies). Madam President, we remember that only a few years ago the press outlined apocalyptic scenarios for the epidemics that would have to break out, for example because of the influence. Reading the papers it seemed that we should find people falling on the streets affected by the flu like flies. Or I still remember the avian infection: 400 million euros. Hundreds of millions of euros spent on nothing. Madam President, we do not agree with this and we want this measure to go through with it because we want to see here too who will raise his hand, who will vote in favour and who will vote against the individual amendments and the measure itself. What must be guaranteed to citizens is the freedom to choose knowingly what to do with their own health and that of their children. It is aberrant that, according to the preliminary draft, there was even the risk of losing parenthood, the country's power to parents; not to mention the sanctions applied or even the exclusion of minors from the study. These things are part of the history of the decree-law, you wrote them, and they're part of a way of governing that doesn't belong to us. In conclusion, I say this in a very simple way: we will go and vote and we will see what the hands will be raised to guarantee the freedom of choice for our citizens and what hands will instead be raised only for the political convenience of guaranteeing the government, even in yet another act of arrogance, a majority that no longer exists in the electoral body and in the country.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u66	At the same time as a group meeting, I refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u69	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Madam President, every day in Veneto many dealers are forced to close down, our historic centers desert and disappear jobs; according to the CGIA of Mestre, for every job created in the large distribution, six of them are abolished among the small shopkeepers. Already in 2013 in the province of Padua the relationship between the surface of shopping centres and inhabitants was three times as high as European standards. Yet it is not enough: we talk about the doubling of the shopping center Le Centurie in San Giorgio delle Pertiche, which has attracted the protests of many traders; in the town of Due Carrare we would like to build even a new commercial monster, with a trampleable area of 65,000 square meters (6.5 hectares), arranged on two levels, for a height of 12 meters (pracically a building of four floors), extended for more than 3 hectares, on a total area of 14.5 hectares of valuable land that will be cemented, in a region, Veneto, that already suffers from hydraulic insecurity. It would be the largest shopping center in Veneto, with the clear intention of attracting consumers from Padua. But do we realize the impacts on traffic and pollution? The damage to the economy of the whole province, Padua in the lead? What about the landscape damage? The Regional Park of the Euganean Hills adjacent is the first and largest of all the Veneto; the countryside around the Euganean Hills is one of the most intact areas of the entire Veneto, on which there are ancient villages of great value, such as Monselice, Este, Arquà Petrarca and a well-known thermal district in the world: Abano, Montegrotto, Galzignano and the neighboring Battaglia Terme. A few steps away are also Villa Dolfin-Dal Martello and the imposing complex of the Catajo, sumptuous residence of the historic family of the Obizzi, built from the 16th century and considered as a precious cultural, historical and artistic asset, but also as a driving centre of the territory in an area that has great landscape potential. In the face of this environment - what is read on the online information site in Padua morning. gelocal.it - the company Deda Srl, financed by the investment fund Orion european real estate fund IV, would like to build this shopping center. The director of Castello del Catajo, Marco Moressa, on numerous sources of press has defined the project as an infinite and incomprehensible scar; even citizens, committees and associations of the territory would be moving to counter the opening of this monster. I have therefore asked Minister Franceschini to know if he does not consider it appropriate to activate inspections to verify and prevent any deterioration and to protect the landscape, artistic and environmental good of the Euganean Hills area concerned by the project. I should like to draw your attention to the question 3-03858.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u72	RICHIUTI (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, I have just put a question to the Minister for the Interior, signed by many other colleagues, about the disturbing story of Chioggia beach. It sounds like a tongue twister, but we are actually talking about very serious facts, which are of criminal importance. A concessionaire of a public good, such as the beach, had made its establishment a neo-fascist club, a club for nostalgic followers of fascism, racial laws, the Saloin Republic and the whole jungle of the 20 years. The commissioner of Venice has already intervened and thankfully. In the inspection act it is acknowledged the courageous complaint of the journalist of the daily newspaper "La Repubblica" (Repubblica) Berizzi, who also wrote a book on neo-fascism in Italy. With another journalist, although competitive and dynamic, Enrico Mentana, instead this time I disagree. He stood up against the bill that would strengthen in Italy the protection against the apology of fascism (which is already a crime), introducing the propaganda crime of the fascist regime. Mentana said that if you tighten the bolt against opinions it means that they are still scary. No, colleagues, I think of it as Giacomo Matteotti, who said that fascism is not an opinion but a crime; and like Carlo Levi, who said that words are stones and that they must be measured. When we talk about fascism, we talk about the martyrdom of Gramsci, Amendola and Matteotti and hundreds of others, of thousands of Jewish deportees, of the alliance with Hitler and then, in the Republican era, of Piazza Fontana, of the massacre of Brescia, of the massacres of the train Italicus and the station of Bologna and, again, of the massacre of the rapid 904, at Christmas 1984 and of many others. When it comes to fascism you can't really play with words. It is for this reason that I urge not only the withdrawal of the concession to the owner of the beach, but also the answer to my previous question, the 3-03842, always on the same subject. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u73	I can only share what Senator Ricchiuti said. I may speak outside of my role, but some things hit too much and offend our democracy. I would therefore like to thank the senator for wanting to deal with this issue in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u74	He had made a reservation to speak to the Senator-Council, but I do not see him here.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u75	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u77	Mr Paglini (M5S). Madam President, getting seriously ill in the workplace is one of the most unacceptable injustices. Seeing yourself recognized as an occupational disease and not receiving your rights in time is atrocious. Madam President, asbestos is no joke, and bureaucracy cannot kill twice: it is not fair! The province of Massa Carrara has recorded very high rates of pathologies, which are direct consequence of exposure to asbestos. On 17 January I had asked a question about Mr. Mario Barbieri's case: a story that allowed Italy to speak for months. Today there is another atrocious mockery, that directed to the worker Gianfranco Giannoni, worker of the Sanac SpA plant in Massa, who has for years received contaminations from asbestos fibers, so much to contract the killer disease. I have put a question on this case, for which I believe that an answer from the Ministers for Labour and Social Policy and Health is extremely urgent and necessary. I have submitted a question, because despite the fact that the Massa Court recognized the occupational disease and therefore Mr Giannoni is entitled to obtain immediate retirement, according to Article 1, paragraph 250, of Law No 232 of 2016, the INPS refuses to apply this rule, because it maintains that the implementing decrees are still missing. The INAIL, having failed to recognize the invalidity, forced Mr Giannone to a lawsuit prolonged for five years, during which he continued to work. This dispute ended only in January 2016, when the Massa Court sentenced the INAIL of Massa Carrara. According to the judgment, the worker was exposed to the risk of inhalation of asbestos fibres for a period of at least 10 years and during that period contracted the occupational respiratory disease diagnosed as initial asbestos pneumopathy, which determines the recognition of invalidity. It is very serious, Madam President, that a worker who has to live with such a crippling illness is also forced to endure a long process of trial and, once he has obtained the favourable judgment, he is again denied his right, because the implementing decrees are still missing. Such cases should lead the social security institutions involved to review their position and improve their internal practices, avoiding that these workers, in addition to the very serious damage to their health, are also suffering a long and painful ordeal to obtain justice. Madam President, luckily, asbestos cases are not all fatal cases, says the National Asbestos Observatory (ONA), but the INAIL will certainly have to consider these new cases and recognize the annuity to victims and their family members and will try to verify whether there are even criminal responsibilities, as lawyer Ezio Bonanni of ONA says. We wish Mr. Giannoni well and well. Of course, if the worker had been a politician, he would now sleep in four pillows. Come on, Gianfranco, we're all close! I would remind this House and the ministers of Poletti and Lorenzin that we are asking for an answer, which is very urgent at this point. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u80	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Madam President, I apologize for not being present, but outside the Senate there is a demonstration on vaccines and so I had the opportunity to interface with someone who was there to plead the cause. I'm gonna talk about something else tonight. I refer to a few press articles a few days ago in which the President of INPS, Tito Boeri, stated in some interviews that we do not need to close our borders and that, on the contrary, by closing our borders, we risk destroying our social protection system. In this interview he insisted that immigrants make a very important contribution to the financing of our social protection system. He also showed off data and patterns. Without them, the deficit for the Institute's coffers would be EUR 38 billion. President Boeri, you must be in your place. Everyone does their job: you do the math and try to retire people at a dignified age and not at a hundred years of age. Some counts were to be made when the Fornero law was in place, which has not yet been resolved as a problem at the level of pensions. His accounts make water from all sides and above all his reasonings. There are 1.8 million foreigners active in this country, but there are also 2.1 million of them on the system that do nothing. I would remind President Boeri that ISTAT has recently reported the loss of 51,000 jobs, unemployment at 11.3 percent (a very optimistic figure in my opinion) and youth unemployment at 37 percent. It would be enough to bring back to Italy half of the young immigrants abroad in the last five years for reasons very often related to work. It would be enough for them to solve the problems. So, President Boeri, do not take the place of Parliament in certain political choices, especially at a time when the approval and debate that exists on the ius soli is creating several frictions both in the parliamentary classrooms and throughout the country. While we are at it, I take the opportunity to tell you that perhaps it would be better to analyze why Italian couples do not have children; perhaps you should understand why kindergartens do not work as they should. You can't hand it all over to the school, but even this one may not have the opportunity to offer the kids the best of what they could give. We should be concerned that 29 percent of Italians, or about 17.5 million people, are at risk of poverty and social exclusion and in the South we reach about 47 percent. President Boeri, we do not need anyone; it would be enough to put all the unemployed in the country into order, to recall the young people who represented a social cost because they were trained in Italy and we would settle the accounts. If you are so good as to be able to give work to 100,000 people who come to our country and make up resources, we are happy, but do not make statements that do not compete with you, especially at a particular time for this country. We have seen what happened with the enfant prodigies of European policy. I'm talking about Macron. Someone said that a Macron a day took away the immigrant from home, but this solved the problems of France in about a week of his work and dumped them, as Germany and Austria did, on our country. If they are resources, they should be resources for the whole of Europe; instead, they become resources only for us. Welcome if we find the job for all these kids. I believe, rather, that we should put our unemployed in a position to find a job. President Boeri, everyone does their job.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u83	PUGLIA (M5S). Madam President, I want to report to the Senate a very serious situation: there has been an epochal disaster on Vesuvius; it has been burning for days. Today it has reached its peak: there are more than ten outbreaks and in Campania we have very little resources and a serious slowness in the relief especially because of the lack of resources. Only today, the leaders of the Vesuvius National Park finally gathered around a table the mayors of the Vesuvius Municipalities to define strategies against the arsonists: too late. These things are done in October, November or December, but certainly not now. It's too late. The law enforcement forces should help us right now. I therefore ask the competent Ministers to provide us with the means and forces necessary to deal with this emergency, because unfortunately the fire department, despite their immense work, cannot help us and put out the fires that have come to languish many homes. Entire communities have been displaced. It had never happened before: it is a disaster that I would call epochal. Unfortunately, there is another aspect to be noted: it is a coincidence, Mr President, that this is the year in which the State Forestry Corps was eradicated by the Government of the majority. It is necessary to reason on this. We have asked in every way that that Body, those men and those means should not be touched. We also want to know at this point whether the delays, the disorganization and the lack of means and men are also the consequence of this "cracker" that was wanted by this Government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u84	Madam President, in these hours, as in recent days and weeks, there is yet another tragedy in Sicily and Campania, that of the burning of woods. A tragedy that is repeated every year, without this government or those who preceded it being able to intervene, both in terms of prevention, and in dealing with the emergency. It is not possible to witness arson every year that is started when the climatic conditions are more favourable and without anyone being often able to identify or at least trace the arsonists who are responsible for these acts. How to define the fire of the woods of a few weeks ago that in the Province of Ragusa killed grazing animals, burned houses and industrial agricultural sheds, or like that of two days ago in Messina, which even forced the authorities to clear the university? Madam President, I call them acts of terrorism, because they create terror among the population, seriously disturb public order, endanger the lives of citizens and operators and create incalculable damage to the environment and the economy. That is why I hope that this Government will take seriously what is happening with immediate measures, both from the point of view of the penalties to be imposed on these terrorists, but also and above all to support our firefighters, who everywhere are bravely facing the flames, almost always without adequate means. It is time to support our rescuers, allocating more funds and creating logistical coordination with other forces in the field, but above all by equalizing the crimes of arsonists with those of terrorists. Those who set fire to a forest must be aware that they will go to prison for many years and that they will not get away with it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u85	Thank you, Senator Bertorotta. We are close to all those people who are facing this serious disaster both in Campania and Sicily.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u86	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-855.ana.u87	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Wednesday 12 July, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16.30, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.54 p.m.
