ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. The Senators Caliendo, Carraro, Lumia, Mauro Mario, Mineo, Palma, Razzi, Stefani, Uras and Zanda communicate that they are present in the Chamber, but that they have not been able to make their presence known by electronic procedure. The Presidency takes note of this. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment on, the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119 (1) of the Regulation (9.40 a.m.).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u8	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2134, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Gadda and others; Garavini and others; Old and others; Bindi and others; Bindi and others; Formisano and a bill of popular initiative, 456, 799, 1180, 1210, 1225, 1366, 1431, 1687, 1690, 1957, 2060 and 2089. I would remind you that the general debate took place in yesterday's afternoon sitting. I call the rapporteur, Senator Lumia.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you were able to see those who have attended the work of this House, the debate has been very positive around the various pillars of this reform of the anti-mafia code. I would remind my colleagues that one of the pillars around which a great deal of work has been done, because we have encountered a number of problems in managing for social and productive purposes the companies seized and confiscated from the mafia, was that of radical reorganization by the Agency. A broad consensus and full sharing has been found on this solution. Colleagues, I assure you that this is a quality element that we must not underestimate, because it will help us to show that the State, when it intervenes, does not do so in order to cause closures of companies, dismissals of workers and denial of rights but, on the contrary, when it intervenes with such strong and radical measures as seizure and confiscation of a company does so because it wants to transform legality into a resource to create work and to improve the quality of social rights present in that business context that the mafia instead denied and trampled on. This is a result that we have achieved and on which there is a broad consensus thanks to an improvement work, also carried out in the Senate, aimed at strengthening the Agency. Colleagues, now the Agency will not be more than 30 units and will not, therefore, have on its shoulders an impossible task to achieve and to carry out. The Agency will have the possibility to be composed of 200 qualified units and will therefore be able to address the issues related to the mountain of both real estate and business assets, which must become a flywheel of development and promotion of rights for many territorial realities that still live a relationship of distrust in the bond with the institutions and the value of legality. Ladies and gentlemen, there has also been a step forward on transparent management, because many striking facts in the territories have shown that this transparency has often not been there. In a context of deregulation many arbitrary, discretionary or corruptive attitudes have developed and you understand well that, when there is no transparency precisely in the management of the confiscated property, credibility collapses fearfully and, therefore, on this point too it was necessary to make a qualitative leap and a good step forward. They are all rules designed to ensure that judicial administrators can only be chosen for merit, for their professional qualities, for their autonomy and independence, for being persons able to really put themselves at the service of that good and not of themselves or of the rope around which the management of the confiscated property has often been organized. Colleagues, we have also provided for a number of innovative standards, which will soon find room for amending work. I stress the need, around the consortia that are set up for tenders, for them all to be subjected to the scrutiny of the anti-mafia ban in order to avoid those tricks that we have found, on the basis of which some were able to circumvent the threshold and therefore to be able to constitute consortia that were in fact conditioned by the mob companies. In the same way, we have used the experience gained on a new side that has been wide open in front of us, that lasts for years and that has allowed frightening enrichments, even more consistent than those that are realized with the traffic of derogation. I am referring to the so-called land mafias - think of the experience of the Nebrodi Park in Sicily - which concern a little the whole country and I believe other states of the European Union and which are based on fraud in the use of public resources, especially those of Community origin. This experience has also served and in the anti-mafia code have been provided innovative rules that allow us, also on this front, to hit the modern mafia that controls public and private land, destined instead to become a resource for farms, for young farmers and young farmers. The president of the Park of Nebrodi Giuseppe Antoci almost lost his life! Now that experience must become a development resource for the state and institutions. Therefore, the increase in the penalty for the crime of aggravated fraud, the possibility that the protocol that discovered this system becomes a rule that allows to go under threshold for the certification of anti-mafia, the possibility for regional and national parks to use confiscated goods to make them in their context a great sustainable resource of promotion of tourism and biocompatible agriculture, as well as the possibility to apply for that type of crime the measures of patrimonial and personal prevention allow us to challenge this rich mafia, powerful, violent and dangerous and at the same time to make the resources recovered an opportunity for growth and improvement of the quality of the development of the territories. We have also strengthened a number of rules regarding the prevention process, both in terms of effectiveness and its modernity, and in terms of guarantees. This work, which is full of improvements, also allows us to achieve extremely positive results. Therefore, this second pillar of change, of innovation, is positive and can be widely shared because it allows the operators of justice to use this instrument so delicate, and at the same time very effective, so dear to Pius La Torre, in the aggression to the heritage, to proceed along this road and show that the wealth of the mafias is no longer their point of strength but paradoxically can become a point of weakness. Through wealth the mafias are in fact in a position to obtain consent, to reproduce, to reorganize themselves; but they also receive fatal blows in terms of criminal sentences, of the most traditional imprisonment in prison, including the application of that 41-bis that is confirmed and that remains an important instrument of protection of the dignity of the citizens and of our democracy. This is because from prison the mafias never stop, unlike all other criminals, to communicate with the outside, to establish their governing role to control procurement, to decide for whom to vote, to condition economic activity, to exercise extortion and to operate in drug trafficking. Such traffic is resumed and the contrast to it must, once again, become a priority of intervention by the State, also daring innovations that are not contained in this text and on which we will have to work with other measures. On this side too, therefore, a long, valuable and positive work has been carried out, and a broad consensus can be found around it. There are amendments on the competences of prosecutors and courts with regard to prevention measures. I would remind everyone that convergence can also be achieved on this point. Then, when we examine the amendments tabled, we will be able to give appropriate answers, together with Senator Pagliari, to unblock some of the hiccups that have been reported. The problem of problems remains. I wanted to quote him last, because I would not want the debate that led the House and characterized several speeches to become the only issue on which to qualify parliamentary work. I am referring to the inclusion, in the House, of crimes against public administration in the list of offences included in the catalogue, together with those of mafia, terrorism and other associative crimes, for which prevention measures can be applied, both personal and property. There has been a long debate on this and difficulties have been raised. Others, on the other hand, have confirmed that this is a positive choice that must be taken forward because corruption has become a priority problem for the country and on which we must give the best. The country must not be afraid to address this problem, identifying even more severe and radical solutions to eradicate, limit but also overcome this phenomenon, which is causing a lot of damage, especially from the economic and patrimonial point of view compared to the correct use of public resources, which are increasingly scarce and therefore must be subjected increasingly to a serious constraint of efficiency. This damage, in fact, also tramples on public morality, the dignity of the citizens and the common feeling. Therefore, corruption offences should not be sufficiently guarded but should be considered with all the rigour and severity possible. With them in the last few months we have been trying, making its penalties more and more severe and making sure that the Forces of Order and the judiciary had the most suitable tools to be able to affect strongly. Of course, the cultural plan, also on this side, remains another very important lever, which, of course, must not be opposed to the system of rules that we foresee in criminal matters and prevention measures. The debate on this issue is open. There are those who claim that a corrective could, for example, remove from the list of offences provided for those who do not themselves have the character of social danger, which - I remind everyone - is a requirement for prevention measures that remains also in the solution proposed by the House and confirmed in the Commission justice to the Senate. Therefore, many argue that, for example, the offence of peculate, especially of use, does not have characteristics that allow the use of the strong and radical instrument of patrimonial and personal prevention. This is because, precisely, the character of danger, which must be inherent in the application of preventive measures, in that case is not automatic and it is not said that it exists. Even if the crime can be serious and must be stigmatized and not underestimated, it does not, however, have that characteristic of social danger and therefore also proposals have been made in order to expunge this type of crime from the crime against the public administration and in the same way someone has also made a proposal on malpractice. However, it is a question of maintaining those crimes typical of corruption that are devastating and on which Parliament must make a choice with the utmost rigour by taking serious action as required by all international bodies, our citizens and by so many social realities in order to intervene. Others, Mr President, ask us for another kind of change around these types of crime, that is to say to link them to the associative character, because all the crimes that trigger those personal and patrimonial prevention measures indicated in the Code have this characteristic. The crime of mafia is in itself associative, the crimes of terrorism have this characteristic; there are perhaps other crimes that we do not know but that are included in the code, such as the one inherent in sports associations that exercise violence in the stadiums, or, for example, there is a measure of personal and patrimonial prevention for the reconstitution of the fascist party. In short, everyone is connected by this thread that is the associative characteristic. We are also asked to consider the possibility of linking crimes against public administration to a simple associative assumption, namely that referred to in Article 416 and not by 416- bis of the penal code, so that the character of danger can be based on the assessment of the Court and of the international bodies that have always looked at prevention measures with great difficulty. On the contrary, we must ask Europe, the other countries, to grow on this side, but we can do so if we are in a position to establish that the prevention mechanism, both personal and capital, has fairly solid foundations and guarantees. That is why, Mr President, in conclusion, together with Senator Pagliari, we ask that we suspend the work of this House for an hour, so that we can define this solution and give it to Parliament's work so that it can then be evaluated, evaluated and decided by this House in full awareness and in its power to influence and unblock this measure which remains a priority for us, even given the will of the majority to keep the most rigorous and firm choice on corruption offences. In fact, against corruption, Parliament cannot be hesitant, it cannot once again give wrong signals that could harm our country, which must instead show that it really wants to make a qualitative leap and move on. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call the rapporteur, Senator Pagliari.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the work done has been valuable. I would like to thank the President of the Commission, his members and the tireless team of the Justice Commission who has joined us in this work which had two complexities: a technical-legal and a legislative policy. We were faced with the task of cutting off the anti-mafia code and I believe that it has been made a particularly significant and important one both with regard to procedural rules, relating to the prevention process and the ordinary one, and with regard to the discipline of the seized and confiscated goods, with particular attention to the certainty of demobilization, or in any case to the control of the destination of the goods, and an approach that can allow, I would say, beyond the limits of the possible, to save the companies seized or confiscated for reasons of mafia. In this area there has also been an intervention, which I consider significant and important, to protect workers, in the reorganization of a discipline tending to assume greater organicity, effectiveness and incidence. From this point of view, I would also like to remind you of the importance, in my view, of the passage of the management of the assets confiscated with the first degree, in order to ensure the maximum continuity or the minimum crusade between pre- and post-sequestration activity. I would also like to remind you of the measures that have been taken by the judicial administrators, the rationalization of the system, the limitation of mandates to judicial administrators, which I believe is an important limit compared to a system that must guarantee legality and ethics in the same management of goods. I also consider it very important to clarify the role of the National Agency for the Administration of seized and confiscated property. This is a clarification of the rule that will be able to see its true development objectively only when the strengthening of the staff of the Agency can be achieved outside the financial constraints that, for now, have imposed to reduce the staff. The role of the Agency, which becomes central and central to this system, is indeed the keystone in relation to the possibility of making the company's assets - including the company's - the fruit of illegal activities virtuous and useful. If this mechanism achieves maximum efficiency and effectiveness, in particular by ensuring the maintenance of employment levels and their improvement, the best form of compensation will be achieved in practice for the territories which have experienced the pollution of organised crime. I believe that this is important now, unfortunately, for almost all our country: we are in fact faced with an infiltration of criminalized activities in areas that were previously immune which, as we know, is really remarkable and worrying. These measures serve to combat all this. I think, as has already been mentioned, that the system has its own balance, which can be further clarified and clarified. There is a fundamental question that I believe deserves further consideration: in being inflexible in punishing Mafia crimes, we must maintain a link between the crime of Mafia and the special punishment provided for by the mechanism determined by prevention measures and the prevention process itself, which is an extraordinary and exceptional measure that cannot be unduly extended in the light of constitutional principles. I stop here not to repeat what my co-rapporteur Lumia has already specified. And I would like to join in the request for an hour's suspension to bring the final refinements to the text to our examination, also in the light of the debate that has taken place. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to add a few comments to the replies made by the rapporteurs. The Government has been engaged from the first moment in following this measure that updates the anti-mafia code and introduces some important innovations both in the plan of the organization of the fundamental instrument, the National Agency for the administration and the destination of the assets seized and confiscated to organized crime, as well as of normative character. In every step of our activity and our discussion - and for this I thank the competent Committees of the Chamber and Senate for the work carried out, as well as the Anti-Mafia Commission - we have been able to identify the objective, which is first and foremost the management of a very large heritage, with respect to which the resources currently available for the Agency of seized and confiscated assets have not proved sufficient; for this reason more rationalization has been necessary, the identification of adequate professionalism and the definition of a path that allows quickly to value what has been rightly confiscated to criminal organizations. Of course, confiscated goods are the result of illegal accumulations and, in order to return them fully to society, proper management is necessary that enhances both real estate and, above all, companies. For the latter, our greatest concern has always been to define the primacy of the State also from the point of view of management, so that it did not happen, after the seizure or confiscation, the circumstance for which perhaps a company failed and workers, often blameless, could lose their jobs, in addition to the fact that even the social and economic fabric would risk being weakened and impoverished by such loss. From a regulatory point of view, innovations have been introduced which have been the subject of considerations which will probably lead to the adoption of certain amendments. It is in this sense that we must, of course, have a common will in full respect of Parliament in such a way that convergence of intentions, which was also determined in the first adoption of the Anti-Mafia Code, can be renewed, possibly with the same convergence and capacity to understand what the common objective is. In this sense, even the discussion that has intertwined around the issue of crimes committed to the detriment of the public administration must be inscribed in the framework of greater protection of public interests and of how this happens also through a definition of very important and strong instruments, introduced with success precisely in order to hit the organizations and associations of mafia type to which a good and seized a company or more activity was taken away, precisely because the associative bond had to be hit, in addition to the criminal responsibility that, of course, is always personal. On the basis of subsequent judgments of the Court of Cassation, it should also be considered that prevention measures are an effective and useful instrument. The Government's intention is certainly to strengthen the state and the repressive capacity, but also the reorganization and redevelopment of goods obtained with illicit profits and proceeds that must be fully returned to the community. [[Applause from Senator Buemi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u12	Following the request made by the rapporteurs, I suspend the sitting until 11 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10.10 a.m. and resumed at 11.07 a.m.) Colleagues, I would just like to inform you that the rapporteurs have asked for a further half an hour. I therefore suspend the sitting until 11.40 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.08 a.m. and resumed at 11.42 a.m.) Colleagues, the rapporteurs have tabled amendment 1,500, the text of which is distributed. I would like to ask the presenters whether they intend to explain this.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u13	Mr President, if you agree, we will be able to proceed with the examination of Article 2, because I believe that it will have to set a deadline for submitting sub-amendments to 1,500. For now, therefore, I ask for the provision of Article 1; when we are ready, we will move on to its illustration.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u14	The rapporteurs therefore call for the provision of Article 1 and for the examination of Article 2 and its amendments, unless a different request is made. I would remind you that I have to set the deadline for submitting sub-amendments, so if we all agree with the request, let us move on with the work. Otherwise, I have to set a deadline.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u17	STEFANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I know that the text of the amendment tabled by the rapporteurs is being distributed, so I would ask that we be given the opportunity to examine it and, therefore, a reasonable time - perhaps an hour, an hour and a half - for the preparation and presentation of its sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u20	PALMA (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, first of all I would like to acknowledge the efforts made by the rapporteurs to present the aforementioned amendment, which raises the concerns that both the Commission and this House have developed around certain points of the measure we are examining. As you have already pointed out, Mr President, we all have the opportunity to subjugate the text. However, I do not agree with the rapporteur's proposal - which essentially proposes to put Article 1 aside and to vote on Article 2 - for two fundamental reasons. The first reason is that we would not have free time to prepare the sub-amendments, because at the end of the sitting the Commissions will meet and on such a delicate measure, which has asked the rapporteurs for almost two hours to draw up an amendment, I imagine - I have not yet had the opportunity to read the proposed amendment - there will be a need to reflect and reason on the text and whether or not to submit sub-amendments. The second reason, Mr President, is as follows: in the argument which mainly developed Senator Lumia in the course of his reply, he correctly, in imagining the possibility of anchoring the crimes of the public administration to an associative crime, pointed to the topicality of the danger; but actuality of the danger that - according to his report - would be covered in case of an associative crime and, as such, would expose less this measure to the criticisms that might come from Europe or even to certain aggressions (obviously in the legal sense) that can take place internally by the Constitutional Court. This, in my opinion, Mr President, takes a reasonable time to check whether and how the amendment proposed by the Senators may or may not affect some other part of the text. Therefore - and we come to the conclusion - since 11.50 a.m., I think we could easily postpone the debate to the afternoon sitting and basically give the time until 4.30 p.m. or 5 p.m. on the basis of Commission meetings - you will see it, Mr President, because it is not half an hour longer or less to make the difference - and then resume the work and allow us to present sub-amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u23	Mr Giovanardi (PL-Id) Mr President, I would simply like to join in the reasoning and remarks made by Senator Palma.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u26	CASSON (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, on the request to move on to the next articles, I would like to give a contrary opinion, because Article 1 is first and foremost the basis of the measure under consideration. And it is essential to discuss and resolve the problems that exist around Article 1 and the new wording proposed by the rapporteurs with the presentation of amendment 1,500. In addition, from a practical point of view, I would point out that Article 2 refers to Article 1-a and that Article 5 still refers to the same Article. Therefore, the amendments that may be made to Article 1-a would force this House to postpone further consideration of Article 2, Article 5 and the other articles mentioned. Therefore, it would be more appropriate, since a deadline for submission of sub-amendments must be set, to set this time limit in order to allow those who wish and need to do so to intervene. Subsequently, you can begin the examination of the measure and the articles as a whole.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u27	It seems to me that there is general agreement on the need to examine the amendment tabled by the rapporteurs carefully and to propose sub-amendments. I would therefore remove the sitting by setting the deadline for submitting the sub-amendments at 2.30 p.m. so that I can resume the afternoon sitting at 4.30 p.m. with the examination of Article 1, the amendments and their sub-amendments. If no comments are made, this remains the case. I shall refer the following to another session of the debate on the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-28-LEG17-Senato-sed-847.ana.u28	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I recall that the Senate will return to public session today, at 4.30 p.m., on the same agenda. The sitting was closed at 11.50 a.m.
