ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SIBILIA, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u4	COMAROLI (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9:37 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law Nos. 2583, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and 1295. The rapporteur, Senator Mazzoni, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u9	Mr President, this draft law of parliamentary initiative signed by Mr Sandra Zampa (thank you), already adopted by the House of Deputies, introduces a series of amendments to the current legislation on unaccompanied foreign minors, with the aim of defining a uniform organic discipline. The subject matter is currently regulated by provisions contained in several measures and is therefore a matter that rules govern in a very fragmented way. The first three articles of the draft law in question define the subjective scope of the discipline that is intended to be introduced and affirm the general principle of prohibition of refusal at the border of minors. In particular, Article 1 restricts the application of the law to unaccompanied foreign minors, due to their condition of greater vulnerability. It is established that unaccompanied foreign minors, regardless of their intention to apply for international protection, are nevertheless entitled to rights in the field of the protection of minors, on equal treatment with minors of Italian citizenship or of the European Union. Article 2 defines the unaccompanied alien minor as the minor who is not a national of Italy or of the European Union who is, for any cause, in the territory of the State or who is otherwise subject to the Italian jurisdiction, without assistance and representation by the parents or other adults legally responsible for him under the laws in force in the Italian law. Article 3 explicitly introduces the absolute prohibition of refusal at the border of unaccompanied foreign minors. Consequently, the provision referred to in Article 33 (1) of Law No 184 of 1983, which in the current wording does not allow minors who do not have an entry visa for adoption, or unaccompanied minors, to enter the State, is also updated. With regard to the expulsion order of the court for minors, it is provided that it may be adopted provided that it does not entail a risk of serious harm to the child. It is also specified that the decision of the court for minors must be taken promptly and in any case within 30 days. With Article 4, the text intervenes on the terms of the first reception of unaccompanied foreign minors, reducing from 60 to 30 days the maximum time in which they must remain in the first reception facilities. This is in fact the time when minors flee or disappear on the territory. In this context, the identification of the child shall be carried out, for which the maximum period of 10 days is introduced, and the possible determination of the age. In addition, in such structures, children shall receive, in a manner appropriate to their age, any information on the rights accorded to the child and the manner in which those rights are exercised, including that of seeking international protection. The procedures for the identification of the child and for the determination of the age are then governed in detail by the following Article 5. Article 6 introduces some changes to the rules governing family surveys, while Article 7 assigns to local authorities the task of promoting awareness and training of caregivers in order to accommodate unaccompanied minors, in order to facilitate family custody in place of hospitalization in a reception facility. Article 11 provides that, within 90 days of the entry into force of the law, each court for minors shall establish a list of voluntary guardians who are willing to assume the protection of an unaccompanied minor or more minors, when the protection concerns brothers or sisters. In the field of assisted and voluntary return, Article 8 shifts the competence for the adoption of the measure from the Ministry of Labour's Directorate-General for Immigration to the competent juvenile court. Article 9 establishes, at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the National Information System for unaccompanied minors. Article 10 concerns the residence permit issued to foreign minors for whom refusal or expulsion is prohibited, covering only two types: that for minors and that for family reasons. As regards reception, Article 12 provides that all unaccompanied minors, regardless of their request for international protection, may access the Asylum and Refugee Protection System (SPRAR). The capacity of the system must therefore be commensurate with the actual presence of minors on national territory. Consequently, the name of the reception programme is changed to "Protection system for asylum seekers, refugees and unaccompanied foreign minors." A number of criteria are identified for the allocation of long-term structures. In particular, it is established that, in the choice of the available structure, it is necessary to take into account the elements that emerged during the interview with the child, in relation to the type of services offered by the reception structure. The structures in which unaccompanied foreign minors are accepted must meet the minimum standards of services and assistance provided by residential facilities for minors and be authorised or accredited in accordance with national and regional legislation on the subject. Article 13 deals with the possibility of converting the residence permit at the age of majority. In particular, I would like to point out a new provision that provides for the custody of social services up to the 21st year of age for those children who have taken a path of integration, but who have reached the age of majority need long-term assistance. Articles 14 to 19 aim to strengthen some of the rights granted to unaccompanied minors. First of all, Article 14 extends the full guarantee of health care to unaccompanied foreign minors, providing for their compulsory registration in the National Health Service even in the blackberries of the issue of the residence permit. In relation to the right to education, the activation of specific measures is encouraged, starting from the moment of the inclusion of the child in the reception facilities, by the educational institutions and educational institutions accredited by the Regions. Articles 15, 16 and 19 govern procedural and procedural guarantees for the protection of a minor alien. In particular, Article 15 provides that the emotional and psychological assistance of unaccompanied foreign minors shall be ensured in every state and degree of the procedure, through the presence of suitable persons indicated by the minor, as well as groups, foundations, associations or non-governmental organisations of proven experience in the field of assistance to foreign minors. In addition, the right of the unaccompanied foreign minor to participate by means of a legal representative in all judicial and administrative proceedings concerning him and to be heard on the merits, with the presence of a cultural mediator, is recognised. Article 16 recognises the right to be informed of the desirability of a trusted lawyer in the case of an unaccompanied foreign minor who is involved in judicial proceedings in any way. Article 19 authorizes bodies and associations which carry out activities in favour of the social integration of foreigners registered at the Ministry of Labour to intervene in judgments concerning unaccompanied foreign minors and to appeal for the annulment of unlawful acts in administrative justice. Articles 17 and 18 provide for special forms of protection for specific categories of unaccompanied minors, victims of trafficking and applicants for international protection. In accordance with Article 20, Italy shall promote closer international cooperation, in particular through the instrument of bilateral agreements and the financing of development cooperation programmes in the countries of origin, in order to harmonise the legal, international and national regulations of the system for the protection of minors. Article 21 contains the financial provisions and, with a final coordination rule, Article 22 gives the Government the task of making the necessary changes, following the entry into force of the law, and the regulation implementing the single text on immigration, to the regulation of the Committee for Foreign Minors. The draft law under consideration stems from a dramatic reality: every day in Italy 10 unaccompanied foreign minors disappear. The data provided by Minister Alfano that, in a single year, there had been 3,707 minor migrants disappeared from the reception centres in Italy, out of 14,243 registered as a result of the landings on our coasts. Experience teaches that it is precisely in the period of excessive extension of the presence of minors in the first reception facilities that the disappearance of thousands of minors occurs and the bill appropriately reduces the time. The presence in Italy of unaccompanied foreign minors has been growing steadily in recent years: at 30 June 2016 there were 12,241, or 49.3 percent more than in 2015, and in January of this year there was an increase of 24 percent compared to January of the previous year. These children are entitled to enhanced protection, both under national and international law, and the Italian State has a great responsibility to them. The protection of every minor is a right enshrined in European and international law, but the reference legislation, concerning the institute of protection in Italy, appears obsolete, because there is no specific law, but a series of fragmented rules. The level of protection that the current protection services provide to boys and girls varies between Region and Region: while some, first of all Sicily, have to cope with massive landings through identification and first reception practices, many others manage only the second reception. In the absence of clear legislation and uniform procedures, local authorities and agencies involved in the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors shall apply non-homogeneous and emerging arrangements. The reasons for the safety and safety of these children must lead the Government and Parliament to do more and better: the New York Convention, signed by our country, gives our responsibility to the safety and acceptance of these children. This requires certain and standardised procedures, but above all it is necessary to shorten the waiting times between the landing, the appointment of a guardian and the final reception. This is the direction in which the proposal for a law under consideration, which aims to standardise the procedures for identifying and verifying the age, and which includes: the establishment of a national reception system, with an adequate number of places and with guaranteed quality standards and the activation of a national database to regulate the dispatch of minors arriving in Italy in reception facilities located in all regions, based on the availability of seats and possible specific needs and needs of the same minors; the continuity of the financing of a national fund for the reception of unaccompanied foreign children, which is not serious on the budgets of the municipalities; the active and direct participation of unaccompanied foreign children in all procedures concerning them, in compliance with the principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence; the promotion of the taking-up and continuous support of foreign children under particularly vulnerable conditions (victims of trafficking and exploitation, asylum seekers and others); the organic support for the social, school and working integration of unaccompanied foreign children, also close to the attainment of the highest age; the active involvement of communities in the reception and integration of children, developing the family network as an alternative for the caregiver of children and the family; the role of the family, developing the social integration of the social, education and working community as an alternative to the social integration; In short, it is necessary to realize that in the dynamics of migration foreign minors are the most exposed part, because they constitutively need adults to rely on. To carry out protection procedures that take account of this is indispensable in order to facilitate a legal transfer and avoid irregular movements to countries where there are family members or acquaintances waiting for them, but also in order to counter the action of criminal networks, preventing the conditions of loneliness, social exclusion and marginalization, which are the most serious factor of exposure of minors to risk. The constant increase in the number of unaccompanied foreign minors is often treated as an emergency within the wider emergency of the overall migration phenomenon and, as such, is therefore perceived with alarm not because of the situation that many foreign children and young people are forced to do alone or away from the family, but for the local population. In short, these children are perceived almost exclusively as a social danger. The protection of foreign minors lies precisely in the space of this contrast between requests related to reception and requests related to control, as if the unaccompanied foreign minors were now in a condition similar to that in which they were a few decades ago the Italian minors without a family. It is therefore a priority to overcome the logic of emergency and to adapt the institute of protection to the characteristics of a structural phenomenon such as that of the presence on our national territory of thousands of unaccompanied foreign minors. It is necessary for them and it is necessary to alleviate the tensions that an ungoverned migration process produces in the social fabric, recognizing that many young people who want to integrate can be a resource and not only a problem and that many others, who intend to migrate to other European countries, need to be supported in the implementation of their project. The proposal for voluntary protection addresses this priority and is an effective instrument. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to sum up the new elements contained in the text. In addition to the protection, it is also particularly important to amend the single text on immigration in so far as it regulates the prohibition of the refusal of unaccompanied foreign minors at the border; the introduction of an organic system of first and second reception, with structures spread throughout the national territory; the harmonization of age assessment procedures in order to avoid invasive medical examinations, where unnecessary, and the provision of greater procedural guarantees, such as the presence of cultural mediators also during the investigation; greater guarantees to make effective the exercise of the rights to education, health and those relating to administrative and judicial proceedings. I think it is good to have found a broad cross-cutting consensus between the parliamentary groups on this draft law, and my hope - which is in addition to that already expressed by all the associations dealing with the problem - is that the text will be adopted quickly, because it is a necessary and awaited law. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Barani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u12	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, I would ask that no consideration be given to the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u13	It is therefore a question of a preliminary ruling and in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure. In the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes. Since no one intends to intervene, let us turn to the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We're asking for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u16	LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I asked before to speak because I wanted to understand the reasons behind the question before me in order to reply. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I asked if anyone wanted to speak, no one answered and we went to the vote. LO MORO (PD). I asked to intervene. You didn't see me. I feel like he's intervening. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Did you ask to intervene earlier? LO MORO (PD). Yes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If I didn't see, then I was wrong. I apologize and give you the floor. Mr Calderoli (LN-Aut). We are voting! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But if I didn't see the request for intervention, I was wrong. Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). He raised his hand when we asked for a quorum check. LO MORO (PD). Mr President, I would like to say to the House and to the Members who are proposing this question for a preliminary ruling not only that it is completely unfounded, but that it is truly surprising that such a thing should be done after all the political groups have behaved responsibly in the Commission. We are discussing the fate of thousands of people and minors. I therefore ask the House to be responsible and the parliamentary groups to act accordingly and with absolute responsibility. Not only must the question referred for a preliminary ruling be rejected, but we must move forward quickly because the measure in question has been awaited for many years, for a long time and cannot wait any longer. I therefore request that the question referred be rejected and that we proceed without delay with the proceedings. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u17	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request for verification of the quorum is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is not supported.) I put to the vote the question referred by Senator Candiani. It's not approved. He's enlisted to speak Senator Volpi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will then talk about responsibility for what we have heard from Senator Lo Moro. This morning, on the front page of Unity, the most important title was "The New Hate Sowers." Of course, we are listed with name and surname among the new sowers of hatred. Too bad there was absolutely no mention of what is going on in our country on the whole page of that newspaper. Absolutely nothing. There are no workers, there are no taxi drivers, there are no artisans, there are no suicides, there are no streetwalkers, there is no real country. Today, with this measure, which should be important, we continue to live the psychodrama of this left who no longer knows what identity to find; indeed, he does not have it anymore. The fact that emerges from the article "The sowers of hatred," in fact, is that we will oppose the law on the ius soli that the regent says he wants to approve immediately, even placing the trust. Do you think that these are the conditions under which we can seriously talk about the problems of the country, including that which is the subject of the measure, which, moreover, has been malicious, which you wanted to bring to the Chamber today? [[Applause from Senator Centinario.]] Let me ask you a question, colleagues of the so-called majority. If a referendary request were made on this measure tomorrow (for content, perhaps, but also for the general situation), what do you think would happen with regard to those who are out of work, workers, call centres workers and their situations? What would be the result, in your opinion, of a referendary question? Mr President, I believe that the government, as a first measure, should prepare a decree to remove one day of the year from the calendar. You should make a decree to remove from the calendar December 4th. In this way, in addition to removing it from your head, you can remove it, even formally, from that of the Italians. You keep looking for flags, and you don't notice that the country is looking at other problems. You are trying to put flags on the rise between you: my colleague, Mr Lo Moro, says that this measure must go absolutely and your colleague, Mr Orfini, says that we must move on to the ius soli. I remember an old expression. But are you so sure that by doing this policy and not looking at the real problems you are really doing something related to the left? Or should your internal debate take the lead on these issues? Do you have to put two flags to say that you still deal with certain issues? What about the others? The most depressing thing, my dear colleague Mr Lo Moro, is not the responsibility to talk about these issues; you know that we, and I personally, are always attentive to these issues. The responsibility lies also in demeaning this House as the Commission has been demeaned, not even allowing the rapporteur to table his amendments. This is not an agreement, Mr Lo Moro, it is not the way to deal with the parliamentary debate on a subject like this: this is not the responsibility to which you referred. You know that I have great respect for you and for my colleague Mazzoni. Well, if I had been Mr Mazzoni, I would no longer have accepted to be rapporteur for this measure because if a careful and precise colleague, like Mr Mazzoni, had not tabled a corrective amendment, but full-scale amendments on what he himself thought to be a malicious measure, and from the friggets of someone else. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] He is forced to withdraw amendments that would have settled - we did not agree on everything - at least in part some things, it means that there is still the same arrogance as when you had as Secretary Matteo Renzi, because you do not want to talk about problems, but to plant flags. Mazzoni, you have all our sympathy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] This, my dear colleague Mr Lo Moro, ladies and gentlemen (I do not want to personalize it, also because it is not used), does not mean having a sense of responsibility for such a serious and important issue as that of unaccompanied minors; it means simply being able to make tomorrow another title "Against the hate sowers we have made a stupid law!", an accessory that doesn't solve problems. And then there is the ultimate mockery: colleagues from the center-left PD want to know what this bill is? A measure in which the government imposed the figures, which is not even a manifesto and which is financed with not a million euros. Is it true or not, Mr Mazzoni, that this bill does not even have the funds to be taken into account as a serious measure? Then, of course, you're used to doing the "phenomena" here and then downloading the problems on municipalities and local authorities. Then call the mayors from the prefectures and impose the presence of immigrants: this is your ability to be Left. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Other than the true communists of the past, who were themselves the territory and knew how to contrast the ideas of Christian Democracy with a political philosophy that you have forgotten, you have put in the cellar: you no longer know how to represent your society and you have the ambition to continue telling us that you are the social part of the country! The children who arrive, with that million euros planned, will not find the system that you propose, which is also wrong; they will find the same ways that they have found so far, that is, with an ill-fated law, they will continue to disappear young people and we will never know where they will end up: if they end up in the European tracts of sex slaves rather than on other ways, but perhaps worse there is nothing. Or we might even get to the point of thinking that we need someone to give organs to some private person who knows how to pay a lot rather than wait his turn. Should that be the responsibility of the Democratic Party and this majority? Are these the themes? [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] You know that we have a problem with this law, which has also been pointed out several times by President Calderoli in the Commission: we are not able to define the age of these young people. Undersecretary, you know that too: you are a good person, so you do your part, but at some point your conscience must emerge. We do not know how old they are, because we are not able to define it, but you know as well as I do that last year there were 234 cases, some of which (those that we managed to keep in conditions of humanity) have declared that they have been contacted before the departure or, even, here in Italy by those who are involved in the enlistment for terrorism. It's a concern. Do you have it? I've got it. Similarly, I do not believe that the system you have proposed works. What surprises me is that the rapporteur has wanted to make some corrections and I do not think he has done so to ruin the draft law, also because, since the outcome of the referendum - it seems to me that it has been said - the Senate still exists, using this House once in a while to improve some aspects of the measures would not be a bad idea. Do you also know very well that the rates of search for protection by unaccompanied minors compared to the areas of origin that have been identified are practically the same as for adults, but compared to that age group that goes from 16 to 20 years, to which we are not able to give a precise identification, how do we put it? Why are they coming? What are they doing? They come because they are economic migrants and they are not minor? They come because they were somehow enlisted into the international terrorist system and so are they also paid to arrive in a certain way? Is this your conscience and responsibility? We must also ask questions in relation to some aspects that I find sincerely inconceivable. I would like to read a small passage from the text of the bill, more specifically Article 5, paragraph 6, where it is said that the socio-sanitary assessment of the age must be carried out using the least invasive methods possible and respectful of the presumed age. That's fine; but if you do the combined arrangement with Article 19 of the bill, which intervenes on the verification of the procedure (in which it is expected that all types of protection associations are allowed to intervene), do you realize what you expose the operators to if it is not specified what the previous sentence means? The same operators in the centres, when an application is refused, will suffer every possible form of retaliation, even legal, compared to a condition that legally does not exist, because it is not identifiable. The responsible attitude is not to plant flags, but to do the laws well. Today you're making a bad impression, because you're not doing it for the children who need it, but for your party pride and to justify a policy you don't have. But you kids don't care about anything. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u19	Senator Puglisi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask Senator Volpi to stop doing pure jackaling. There are no dramatic deaths of artisans who committed suicide to unaccompanied foreign minors, because this provision has nothing to do with it. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The chatter is at zero: the Renzi Government and today the Gentiloni Government Silveri have also done concrete things for the lives of craftsmen and small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Comments from the LN-Aut Group and the Senators Airola and Rizzotti]] We have decreased IRES and IRI from 27.5% to 24 percent. We've brought the superimmortizations, which with your government were 12 billion, 72 billion, so to 250 percent. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Above all, this government has contributed nearly a billion to the trust fund. So chatter and populist demagogy are zero. Let's go instead to take care of these boys and girls who run away from wars and hunger, because they have the right, like our children and like his children (Senator Volpi), to seek happiness. According to official statistics (which unfortunately show underestimated data), every year about 10,000 unaccompanied foreign minors land on our coasts. They arrive in our country away from the family and without reference adults. In the area of migration, this large number of children and girls is a particularly vulnerable group. In fact, foreign persons of underage age have journeys behind them that have sometimes lasted years. They often arrive in Italy after having experienced violence of all kinds and sometimes burdened with travel debts to be repaid. Under these conditions, they can be easy prey to illegality circuits, especially if a coordinated and serious network of protection and support has not been activated since their arrival. In recent years the largest flow of unaccompanied foreign persons comes mainly from countries such as Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Egypt, Tunisia, Nigeria, Somalia, Eritrea and, in recent months, Syria. They are mainly adolescents between the ages of sixteen and eighteen, mainly male, but there are also younger boys (even thirteen and fourteen years old) and girls, mainly from Nigeria. In this regard, I would like to remind you that some 100,000 women, 25% of whom are underage, are victims of trafficking and prostitution rackets in our streets. Working with the Community Pope John XXIII, I recently deposited in this branch of Parliament (in the House of Deputies a similar proposal was made by Mr Bini) a bill with which it is proposed to do in our country what is already done in Norway and Sweden, i.e. to fine the clients of prostitutes (a similar law was recently passed also in France). This is the only way to really combat trafficking, as we are also told by Europe. That said, according to the latest official data available, updated recently and provided by the Ministry of the Interior to the associations gathered in the project Presidium (UNHCR, OIM, Save the Children and Red Cross), in the first eight months of 2013 about 4,000 people of less age arrived by sea in Italy, mostly unaccompanied. For many years, Italy has been addressing the reception of non-accompanied foreign people in terms of emergency, without a clear definition of competences and responsibilities among all the actors involved. In Italy there are experiences of excellence in the reception of persons of minor migrant age, but despite the commitment of many, both within the institutions and in the associations and voluntary networks, still today the essential rights of non-accompanied foreign persons are not always respected. From the right to the recognition of the minor, to the right to a decent reception, from the right to the appointment of a guardian, to the possibility of being heard in the choices that concern them. Three associations involved in the protection of unaccompanied foreign persons are Save the Children, who contributed to the drafting of the bill, at the first signature of Mr Sandra Zampa, whose examination process in the Chamber of Deputies has begun (I have presented a bill similar to the Senate, which has been combined with the text under consideration). Associations engaged in the protection of unaccompanied foreign persons have accumulated direct experience which has enabled them to detect fundamental deficiencies and dysfunctions in the reception and protection of minor foreign persons. In this regard, I would like to express my thanks for the work done by the Commission because, in addition to having rules that will allow the country to have advanced legislation, there is also, finally, with the contribution of the Government, adequate financial coverage. The bicameral commission for childhood and adolescence, which continued to work on this subject in this legislature, had already followed the subject in 2009, approving a resolution containing some important points and commitments for the government, referring directly to the need to dissolve the major critical issues arising from the initial findings of the investigation. In particular, the survey showed a situation of considerable social seriousness in relation to the phenomena encountered, requiring the Commission to identify as soon as possible immediate instruments to ensure effective protection of these persons, ascertaining all possible responsibilities related to their uncertain fate and the prevarication of their most elementary rights as weak persons. The law that we are about to approve therefore wants to define a stable system of reception with certain rules - and to give sure rules means to guarantee the safety to all the citizens of our country, I want to continue to emphasize it - in order to guarantee equal conditions of reception to all the people under age, greater stability and therefore quality in the network of reception, as well as optimization of the public resources, since it is known that in the phases of emergency also increase the expense and it becomes more difficult to guarantee efficiency and transparency. Therefore, the issues covered by this law are serious: the uniformity of the identification and verification procedures of the age; the establishment of a national reception system, with an adequate number of places and quality standards and guaranteed; the activation of a national database to govern the sending of persons of minor age who arrive in Italy in the reception facilities located in all the regions, on the basis of the availability of places and possible specific needs and needs; the continuity of the financing of a national fund for the reception of non-accompanied foreign persons of unaccompanied age, which does not serious on the expenses of the municipalities of tracing; the active and direct participation of the foreign persons of minor age do not accompany all the procedures that concern them, in compliance with the principles of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Children and Adolescence, which makes the persons of minor age subject first of right and right to listen; the promotion of the taking charge of continuous support for persons of minor age under conditions of particular vulnerability, victims of trafficking and exploitation (as I mentioned earlier, 25 per cent of children are victims of trafficking and end of the roads). The bill also provides for organic support for social, school and work integration, also in view of the attainment of the age and the active involvement of communities in the reception and integration of these children, developing family care as an alternative to the community and the figure of voluntary guardians in the network with the guardians of children. I really want to thank this branch of Parliament, which will finally give our country a law that lives up to the dreams and expectations of a civilization that is truly human. I want to honor, in this intervention, all those volunteers, men and women, who continue to save lives from the seas of our country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] and to all the volunteers of those associations who take responsibility for the quality of life of these children and girls who arrive in our country without any reference figure. Honour to them! We are a great country, Europe must look to Italy and its way of working as a great model. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u23	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would just like to remind the House that, since, as Mrs Puglisi said, we need certain rules, this debate should, however, be postponed to the resignation of a Undersecretary, Mr Castiglione, still present in the Government, who, together with Odevaie, manages the CARA of Mineo. It is useless, the discussion should be postponed: you are hypocrites to come here to talk about good reception, certain rules and civil country... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, you said it now, this thing, and you made your call, but it wasn't on the order of business. Let us continue with the debate, please. AIROLA (M5S). They manage immigration and they run your parties. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] He's in that government, Mr. President, by the way. Do you understand, my dear friend? (Addressing to Senator Puglisi.) Odevaie is yours! Buzzi and Carminati were yours! [[Comments by Senators Lucherini and Mirabelli.]] There's also CL! MIRABELLI (PD). Your mother! AIROLA (M5S). Your mother said, ma'am! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, you made your speech that was also off the subject, now let the discussion continue. I'll call you back to the order and I'll beg you on the other side not to collect... AIROLA (M5S). Well, don't pick up the provocations.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u24	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Technical Institute of Industry in Bassano del Grappa, in the province of Vicenza, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u25	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u26	Mr President, I want to say this very clearly from the outset: we, Forza Italia, tend not to be in favour, but rather rather against this measure. Not in the name of a generic "Enough immigrants" who, even in this situation, would have its reasons to be and not even for a trivial respect of our role of opposition: it is a measure that does not convince us, thought badly and written even worse. First of all, there is a general point to be made. It is indisputable that, when it comes to minors, adequate arrangements must be made for the situation of loneliness, discomfort and necessity of the child himself. These safeguards, however, cannot be separated from the examination of a number of issues that are not even taken into account in the measure, starting with the words spoken by the European Commission that issued the alarm a few weeks ago on minors hired by terrorist organisations and made to travel protected through preferential channels, already members influenced by terrorist associations, starting with ISIS. One of the first considerations, the most obvious, is that the migratory flow - we know very well, just look at the investigations published in the press these days about NGOs - is in the hands of criminals, traffickers of human beings who, with this law, will be able to guarantee their smaller customers the welcome in our country: isn't this an incentive for these criminals? Was it not possible to provide for a gradual reception requirement, especially for those groups of boys and girls close to their age, who can easily be prey to crime? A survey carried out by the Childhood Commission of which I am a member revealed that, after three days, the majority of children close to the age certainly already have their mobile phones and new clothes and this should make people think about who makes them arrive. This must be clear: we must not stop at the image of the little child saved from those real heroes who are our men and women engaged at sea, so our humanitarian commitment must be total and without exception. We must also try to predict the fate of those young people, who are now teenagers, who could, thanks also to this measure, constitute very valuable material for traffickers, ready to give them as cheap labour to organized crime. There is another general point I would like to make. There is no tragedy worse than those who are forced to flee their land, their family, to flee from hunger, war and death. Even deeper tragedy there is a child, who may have seen his mother or father die a few meters away and finds himself in a foreign land without help, affection or guides. We cannot forget, however, how many Italian minors are in similar conditions; let us remember the data on poverty: 15 million Italians live on the poverty line and five million Italians live on the poverty line. And I'll tell you more: many families in poverty, who might ask for help from social services, are afraid to do so because some zealous social workers prefer to take the child away and put it in community at 150 euros a day, rather than giving the same amount every week to the family, leaving it in their own social context. [[Applause from Senator Malan.]] Evidently, the Italian family is no longer considered, but perhaps in reality it is also annoying. I don't mean "Italians first" because it would be cruel and wrong. Allow me, however, to say that the least needy are all the same, Italian and foreign, and in this provision there are no guarantees for Italians, but only for foreigners. That is why we have proposed the creation of a single database, which will monitor the conditions, the difficulties, the data of all children without families, without distinction between Italian and foreign children. In addition to these two general considerations, there are other more specific aspects that create some concerns. Where it is not possible to establish a certain age by means of documents, it is envisaged that health checks may be carried out in order to establish it with reasonable certainty. We therefore call for this possibility to become an obligation and for any refusal by the child at an uncertain age to reduce the presumption of the child's age. On the other hand, in Article 5, with reference to health examinations, it is said that the assessment of age must be carried out in a suitable environment with a multidisciplinary approach by adequately trained professionals and, where necessary, in the presence of a cultural mediator, using the least invasive methods possible and respectful of the presumed age, sex and physical and psychic integrity of the person. Social and health examinations that may impair the psycho-physical status of the person should not be performed. Now, I believe that an X-ray of the radio or ulna, to determine on the basis of the pulse presumably age, is not something that can disturb the psychophysical state of the minor and his cultural mediator. Then there are many doubts about the figure of the guardian responsible for the child, sketched in this measure in a completely superficial way. The criteria for choosing the guardian, for example, are not clear. It is equally unclear whether or not the guardian should be considered to be fully responsible for the child's actions, as a family father, whether he should, that is, respond personally to any crimes committed by the child himself. And it is not me who remembers it but statistics, perhaps even the situation of discomfort, the lack of reference points for one's own life and positive examples lead many of these children to criminals: the data on crimes committed by foreign minors are impressive. Since the first reception centers many of these children, who are often young adults, that is, between seventeen and eighteen years old, commit hateful crimes. The cases of these days, for example, involved violence against a volunteer. As far as the crimes against the person are concerned, in 2016 32 voluntary murders were recorded and 54 attempted voluntary murders. There are, moreover, deplorable crimes against women, a sign of the lack of an education that leads to respect for the opposite sex and, I would say to the Senators of the Democratic Party, last year were challenged to foreign minors as many as 268 sexual violence and 47 acts of stalking. It will be said that they are crimes which, however, also commit Italian minors, like foreign minors, but having them already at home, I do not see why we must also take others who delinquote. Certainly our country has suffered an economic crisis of enormous proportions, it is difficult to engage a recovery and counts - I repeat because we must all know it and remember it - 14 million poor Italians. We cannot, therefore, allow ourselves to encourage new social conflicts. This would be a war between the poor, it would mean encouraging situations of degradation in the cities, in the outskirts, it would mean creating banlieues from us too. The tragedy that France has experienced could be repeated by us through a lack of integration of young people, who would remain on the margins of society becoming easy labour of Islamic crime and fanaticism. We believe that, before undertaking new paths for the integration of foreigners, starting with unaccompanied minors (the ones more lonely and needing to be guided), it would be better to identify the mechanisms to block these flows, because, on the contrary, every norm of greater favor can be interpreted by those who are abroad as an invitation to come to Italy, almost a commercial in favor of the merchants of men and boys. President Berlusconi succeeded us, with great diplomatic skills, due to his personal depth as a man of doing and as a man of state. The path to be taken is that of agreements, in order to keep on the African coasts or in the safest countries of the Middle East those who flee from situations of war or the compression of human rights. Europe and especially Italy cannot afford to welcome millions of migrants. We see that 2017 arrival data is 40 percent higher than in the same period of 2016. Shall we say something else? Of course, about 80 million new children are born every year in the poorest parts of the world. Even if we were to welcome one million of them to Europe every year, we would not even face the problem at all. We must, therefore, lay down the conditions to grow those economies and not create illusions about journeys of hope that often lead to tragic conclusions at sea and also in our country. On the substance of the measure, I would like to point out that Article 5 provides for a procedure which is not long, more than one hundred and twenty days after the date of entry into force of the law for the adoption of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers for the identification of unaccompanied foreign minors. We know - because those who talk to citizens know - that the worst things that block the economy of this country are the lengths of the judiciary and justice and, above all, the bureaucracy, which in this measure is the queen. The time that passes for identification means that minors become widely of age, as stated in article 17, paragraph 1, which states that long-term solutions are provided, even beyond the completion of the greater age. Do we want to talk, then, about setting up a guarantee fund without a clear quantification? We all know that in 2016 the Italian state and citizens spent 4 billion euros on the immigration problem; it doesn't seem difficult to quantify - it is in everyone's eyes - the endowment of this hypothetical fund without money. We do not know how much money will be put in there, taking them away from the citizens for their essential services. The draft law before us cannot have our consent and certainly cannot see our favor at this historic moment and will not see it even among the citizens. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u27	Senator Albano is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss a very important draft law, which is not only about minors, but also about our civilization and our society. It has taken more than two years to get this measure to the House and I hope that its approval can now be as shared as possible. The theme of minors arriving in Italy unaccompanied is unfortunately part of the great problem of the flows of migrants that every day, for months, arrive on our coasts; a problem that not only has profound social and political repercussions within our country, but above all arouses emotional reactions in a large part of the population, partly stimulated by solidarity and the spirit of reception, partly the result of fear, a fear that sees the migrant coming a risk of aggression. These two different reactions, unfortunately also present in this House, represent two ways of feeling and seeing each other, antithetical. The stories of the many migrants who land in Italy, who have entered our lives through the pages of newspapers and television, have impressed and moved us. But I hope, above all, that they will make us question what model of civilization we want to build for our children. Among the many who arrive on our coasts, refugees, asylum seekers, migrants, there are, first of all, minors, children, children alone, without families, without adults of reference. For them, international conventions have been written and signed and, precisely because of their greater vulnerability, the rules that we are voting on here today have been written, in order to respond to humanitarian needs and our consciences, but also with the ambition to respect and apply the principles proclaimed in the Treaties that we have signed. We have signed them with the ambition to give Italy a stable and effective system of protection, to help our mayors, all the mayors, all the parties and all the political forces that must manage the problem of reception, to support the work of associations and international organizations, without which we would also sink in this sea, which at the same time is a sea of despair and hope, to be up to the generosity of many Italians, with the will above all to contribute to building a response that you look far away. I refer in particular to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, which applies to all children under 18 years of age and which provides that States Parties shall take all appropriate measures to ensure that the child is effectively protected against any form of discrimination or sanction motivated by the social condition, activities, professed opinions or beliefs of his parents, legal representatives or family members. Each Member State must therefore guarantee the rights provided for in the Convention to every child present on its territory, regardless of his or her nationality, nationality and whether or not he or she is residing. And among the rights recognised by the Convention there is also the game, which is therefore raised to the rank of right that must be traced back to the person, even more so if it is children. In 2016 alone, more than 25,000 boys and girls, even very young people under 10, arrived alone by sea in Italy, more than twice as much as in 2015, when they were 12.360; and many lost their lives in an attempt to cross the Mediterranean in the hands of traffickers, to seek happiness and the only possible future in Europe. The temporary reception facilities, according to the Ministry of the Interior, managed about 700 minors per day last year. These numbers give the idea of how complex the reception system is that, taking into account the massive number of arrivals, it in fact makes it almost impossible to organize for a single country. These children face endless journeys, overcome difficulties of all kinds, they leave knowing that they have to repay the money to the boatmen, with the sole aim of reuniting themselves with family or friends, who in many cases do not live even in our country; and for this, often, they flee. With very few exceptions, in fact, these children are strongly determined to reach as quickly as possible other European countries, where they have already integrated family or friends. In order to do so they put themselves in the hands of traffickers to cross borders, running serious risks of violence and exploitation. In particular, many boys and girls from Eritrea and Syria could and could legally reach other European countries through the measure of relocation, which is not guaranteed to them today. On the other hand, it is essential to ensure that they have a legal and protected way of moving to other countries of the European Union. The aim of this measure, therefore, is first of all to harmonise the identification procedures on national territory, making them appropriate to the age of the child. In this way, through this census, we can reach the realization of a registry that can then follow the movements of minors, both in Italy and in Europe, also in order to avoid their subsequent identifications. From the procedure to ascertain the child's age to the standards of hospitality, from the promotion of family care to the figure of the guardian, from health care to access to education, this measure contains all the fundamental pieces of good integration, also in our country. Finally, it will be able to overcome the emerging phase of managing this flow, establishing the competences and responsibilities of the actors involved. In the delicate field of coexistence, in an increasingly multi-ethnic society, feeling discriminated against, in any way, in the age of building one's own personal identity, does not facilitate integration and social cohesion, on the contrary, it can create tensions, against which we must make every effort today. Pope Francis also spent a lot of time pushing Italy, and Europe, to find a solution for the many children who find themselves in this difficult situation. Children who, as the Pope says in his message, are three times helpless, because they are minor, because they are foreign and why they are helpless, when forced to live far from their homeland and separated from their family affections. And some of these young people wanted to respond to these words of closeness of the Pontiff, writing him a letter, just in the last few days, on the occasion of the 103th World migrant and refugee day, on which they affirm, perhaps with the naivety typical of children, that they have not lost the hopes of a better future. The Pontiff's initiative to dedicate to unaccompanied foreign minors the World Day of Migrants and Refugees is a gesture to which this Assembly must give a strong and unequivocal response, with the aim of protecting these children and giving them a welcome that is first of all dignified. Our best response, as an advanced society, is to take a great step forward in the field of the integration of young and very young foreigners present in Italy. Ladies and gentlemen, it is with passion and conviction, therefore, that I support and support this rule, with the hope that it will be adopted without delay to give a great signal of civilizations that our society really needs. I have done this by trying to maintain a softer line than the surgeries I have heard so far. I am referring in particular to Senator Rizzotti, who seems to me to be a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Childhood and Adolescence, but which I rarely see during the meetings of the Commission. I would like to ask Senator Rizzotti if she has ever intervened in the reception camps, if she has ever seen these children, if she has ever looked them in the eyes. If you've ever tried to understand. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). I've been to Ethiopia for six months as a volunteer! Mr Albano (PD). All right, I don't argue. I'm talking to the president. So I'd like to ask Senator Rizzotti if she's ever been there, if she's ever volunteered, if she's ever given these kids a glass of water, if she's looked at them. Mr Rizzotti (FI-PdL XVII). I treated them. Mr Albano (PD). I'm glad you did. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Albano, address the Presidency or it will give you the answers. Mr Albano (PD). Yes, ma'am. So I say, sometimes, the words are... RIZZOTTI (FI-PdL XVII). I treated them six months in Ethiopia. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Albano. Mr Albano (PD). I'll finish. We'll talk about it at another location. I go to reception centres every week and I assure you that I really do volunteer work. I understand the reasons for prostitution, but there are also small children and I do not think that at three or four years of age they are brought to prostitution: I hope and hope that they are not. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments of Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u29	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u30	Mr President, the Senate's examination of draft law n. 2583, already adopted by the House of Deputies on 26 October (sign it: with only 11 votes against and as many as 333 in favour), introduces a series of amendments to the current legislation on unaccompanied foreign minors. I would remind Mrs Rizzotti that the draft law No 2538, first of all, has Mr Carfagna as its second signatory and, furthermore, that her party, in the House on 26 October last, did not take part in the vote, so it did not express this great opposition, which we are now hearing. Anything can happen. [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti.]] Ideas change and parties change their views. I am afraid, however, that the principles are perhaps being traded for some electoral calculations. But let's move on. The aim of the measure is to establish a uniform and comprehensive framework in a field currently governed by provisions contained in various measures, such as Articles 32 and 33 of the single text on immigration, the implementing regulation and the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers No 535 of 1999. The latest provisions on the reception of unaccompanied minors are now contained in Legislative Decree No. 142 of 2015, which transposed Directive 2013/33/EU on the reception of asylum seekers. Both branches of Parliament had for a long time highlighted a number of concerns about the current regulatory framework in this area, with particular emphasis on the need for a strengthening of safeguards guaranteed to unaccompanied foreign minors, while suggesting some strategic actions to be taken. As regards the dimensions of the phenomenon treated, according to data provided by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, responsible for monitoring, the unaccompanied minors present and recorded in Italy at 31 December 2016 are 17,373, and 6.561 are unavailable. Unaccompanied foreign minors, for which removal has been reported by the competent authorities, shall be deemed to be irreperible. In fact, they were 11,921 at 31 December 2015: over a year they have increased sharply and the trend is therefore growing. This means that in Italy, on average, about 10 young people disappear a day, as already said by the rapporteur: it is as if every day half the class of an elementary school disappears. The reasons behind these disappearances are different. Firstly, there is the continuation for excessively long times, very often indefinite, of the time of stay in the centres of first reception or, even, in the centers where the hotspot approach is active, waiting for a place in second reception to be freed. I remember that the maximum expected stay in hotspot centers goes from 48 to 72 hours, so the kids are provided with only a change of clothes and a phone card of 5 euros: it is a bit little to deal with weeks and weeks of stay in these centers. In many cases, for all this indefinite time of permanence, minors remain unaware of their rights, even of the most basic ones, such as the possibility of applying for international protection or the right to have a legal guardian. Also with regard to the removal of minors from the communities that welcome them we are faced with a multiplicity of reasons, ranging from the precarious conditions within the community, to the desire to reach their relatives maybe resident in other European cities. However, as heterogeneous as the reasons for their departure may be, the fate that unites these youngsters cannot but give rise to concern. Many of them end up living in the streets of the main Italian cities, as denounced in an inquiry conducted by the weekly "L'Espresso" in collaboration with UNICEF, others are victims of human trafficking and organ trafficking. This is a reality that should leave the whole civil society appalled and shivering with indignation. We all have responsibilities towards these children, all characterized by a condition of extreme vulnerability. The reason for my strong appreciation of this measure lies mainly in the fact that it offers concrete answers to needs which are now improcrastinable. I am referring first of all to the affirmation of the principle that, regardless of the intention to apply for international protection, unaccompanied foreign minors are entitled to rights in the field of the protection of minors, on equal treatment with minors of Italian nationality or of the European Union. All the provisions of the draft law are therefore applied to unaccompanied foreign minors, because of their condition of greater vulnerability. Article 3 also explicitly provides for an absolute ban on the refusal of unaccompanied foreign minors at the border. Such refusal cannot be ordered, except for reasons of public policy and State security. Important innovations are also introduced in the context of measures relating to the management of the first reception, significantly reducing the time spent in such structures. Equally important is the provision of Article 5, which aims to regulate the identification procedure of the child in a uniform, punctual and guaranteeing manner. The length of this article, which was criticized in the course of the debate in this House, is a very relative fact: it is preferable to have a long, but specific, precise and clear text. This article therefore deals with a particularly sensitive area, because it is the fundamental step in determining the minor age, on which the possibility of applying protection measures in favour of unaccompanied minors depends. Finally, I cannot fail to point out the measures contained in Articles 7 and 11 to improve the provisions relating to the custody and protection of unaccompanied minors, including two measures which I consider to be of great importance, namely the promotion of awareness and training of caretakers to receive unaccompanied minors, so as to facilitate family custody instead of hospitalization in a reception facility and the establishment of a list of voluntary guardians willing to assume the protection of an unaccompanied minor or more minor, when the protection concerns brothers or sisters. I would like to conclude by repeating a concept of absolute importance in my opinion: given the need to have organic and punctual rules on the subject not only of unaccompanied minors, but of immigration in general, it is absolutely essential to provide concrete and continuous support to local administrators, in dealing with a great responsibility such as this. We cannot leave our mayors alone, especially those of very small municipalities, and I firmly believe that in this context, too, Europe has a fundamental role to play, partly because the implementation of the model of widespread reception (in my opinion, the only one really practicable and effective) must not only be based on the direct provision of funds (i.e. the EUR 500 per migrant of the last budget law), but also on the possibility for local administrators to rely on a minimum of budgetary flexibility. Only with an approach of reasonable accounting elasticity will small local realities be able to manage the reception procedure in a virtuous way and with the necessary guarantees for residents and migrants, with specific reference to minors. Only in this way will they be able to cope with the increasing number of benefits that are required of them (and the draft law under consideration is no exception) also in terms of integration, awareness and training of those involved. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE ePD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u31	Senator Padua is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u32	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the alarm launched by Pope Francis a few days ago, on the occasion of the day against human trafficking, also concerned foreign minors who arrive alone in our country. They are children and girls who, even if entered Italy without a visa and irregularly, are entitled to rights recognised in our law by the law of ratification of the 1989 New York Convention. The protection of minors, therefore, for the mere fact of being such, allows them to obtain a residence permit for a minor age; yet, arrived in our country, for many begins a path anything but rosy or promising: if you remain free from unfortunate results in crossing the Mediterranean Sea, landing in life mostly on the coasts of southern Italy, you can be trapped in the network of crime, where black work and prostitution represent a scourge that assumes even more dark and dramatic contours in the case of minors. There is also a psychological aspect related to the post-traumatic consequences of stress, which cannot be implied, as the deep wounds that inevitably carry these minors leave indelible traces if they are not properly cured. The phenomenon of organ trafficking (transnational, inhuman theme and which should be combated more with joint cooperation between States) is also, unfortunately, part of these irregular migration routes. It is also for these reasons that the law we are discussing sets out particular forms of long-term protection for those who have been victims of trafficking, children and girls who are even weaker among the weak. In Italy the first national plan for the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors dates back to 2014, when the first important peak of arrivals of solo minors was recorded, passed from about 800 units in 2013 to the much more substantial number of 2,000; then, however, figures were reached until recently unpredictable, due to the dizzying increase in migratory flows. These numbers, on the other hand, are destined to increase if we do not intervene in an incisive and decisive way in those countries where parents, mothers and fathers, are forced to sell all their goods in order to give their children a chance of survival: they are mothers and fathers just like us, who force their children to get on dilapidated boats, having no certainty, but only a vague hope of a future more just and better than that offered in their countries of origin. This issue has brought to the attention of national governments and parliaments and of the European Union the need to rethink, in a short period of time, policies and measures relating to access and security. Over the course of a few years, in fact, the needs to be met have changed radically and continuously: our country, as we know, has turned out to be among the most exposed. For these reasons, the immigration and security arrangements are constantly being updated. A specific law that concerns unaccompanied foreign minors is being examined today, one on citizenship will be up for discussion and the Council of Ministers issued last week two decrees law on security and immigration management. The continuous emergencies and new needs that our country faces do not allow to face complex and ever changing phenomena with tools designed for other needs. The Law on Foreign Minors is part of this context: if at the beginning of the current legislature the issue was of some relevance, now it is the numbers that force us to pay more and more specific attention. As has been said, according to the Ministry of Labour (with data updated at the end of 2016), the children present and recorded in Italy were more than 14,000, but of these (and this is the amount that must make us tremble, take care and worry about these people) almost 6,500 are not available. The strengthening of rights such as education, with measures to support the fulfilment of school obligations, or such as health, psychological and legal care, cannot therefore wait any longer. And I would like to remind you that just yesterday the second Conference organized by the World Health Organization and the International Migrant Organization began, which devotes particular attention to the health of migrants. The participating States have undertaken to carry out a joint programme to improve the health of all migrants and this is not only a humanitarian issue - which would already be no small matter and it would be our duty to accept this commitment - but it is also a universal health problem. Beyond the goodness of the reception policies promoted by municipalities, local authorities and territories that have proved to be welcoming and for which the support of the State cannot diminish, there is the need to adopt instruments and measures more suited to the current problems. First of all, therefore, the law aims to focus attention on unaccompanied foreign minors because of their condition of greater vulnerability. The absolute prohibition of refusal corresponds to the logic that our State, for whatever reason it may assume, can never turn to the other side if a minor, already in a state of objective difficulty because alone and in an unknown place, asks for help. Therefore, the measure provides for the reform of the first reception of unaccompanied minors, which is carried out in specific places and with specific procedures for identification and for the verification of age. It is necessary that the recognition takes place in a homogeneous way throughout the national territory and with convenient tools, including the presence of a cultural mediator and multidisciplinary professionals, and that the information be made in an understandable language. This new rule is based mainly on two main points. First of all - and I repeat this, because in this too Italy is different from North to South - do not create differences in the treatment of minors present in our territory and, above all, do as much as possible so that the best interests of the minor, sanctioned in cubic characters in the Convention on the Rights of the Child and taken up by law, find concrete ways of implementation also in the case of unaccompanied foreigners. In this context, therefore, the whole series of new procedures and requirements provided for these children is inserted, looking precisely in the direction of giving shape to the notion of higher interest. Even the idea of not abandoning a minor to his own destiny, following him in all stages of the procedures, is proposed the aim not to leave the children alone, at the mercy of events potentially irremediable for their future. It will be a far from simple task, but we must adapt to numbers - such as those on missing children - which have been skyrocketing from one moment to the next, seeking possible and plausible solutions. In procedural matters, the measure therefore provides for a reduction of half, from 60 to 30 days, of the maximum time when unaccompanied foreign minors must remain in the first reception facilities. And this is a fundamental difference, because until some time ago, often, these minors remained there for many more days and not always in environments absolutely separated from adults. In this context, the identification of the child shall be carried out, for which the maximum period of 10 days shall be introduced, and the possible determination of the age. In addition, in such structures, children shall receive, in a manner adapted to their age, any information on the rights which are granted to them and the arrangements for exercising those rights, including that of seeking international protection. So the person is put in the middle, and that makes a big difference. The procedure for identifying the child and for establishing the age is then regulated in detail by Article 5, which introduces a new article, the 19-bis, to Legislative Decree No. 142 of 2015. The law, always in the interest of the child - the lighthouse principle of the provision - also provides for the birth of a voluntary register of guardians that, in any case, can never, even potentially, be in conflict of interest with the interest of the child. From this point of view, I would also like to mention the importance of a measure, currently under discussion in the Commission on Justice in the Senate, which lays down the official procedure for the offence of paedophilia in the case of children between the ages of 10 and 14. The ratio of this proposal, as well as for the Italian children potentially involved, would have a great impact on the possibility of criminally prosecuting those who are guilty of such horrible crime, taking advantage of the state of weakness, loneliness and need of unaccompanied foreign minors, because it no longer serves the denunciation of partisan, as today, unfortunately, it is. We are still at this point; I myself have tabled a bill to that effect, but already there was another one from the House: we hope that we will soon come to the resolution of this further tragedy. Finally, particular attention should be paid to the fact that at present, while the practice of custody of foreign children in the family is hardly ever traveled, it is now expected that local authorities will promote awareness and training of caretakers in order to promote family custody, as a matter of priority. This is one of the most important news, because it potentially invests all our communities, helping to achieve real inclusion. The evolution of our civil society and our reception system passes, therefore, also from the ways in which such a rule will be declined, which on the programmatic level is strategic in the definition of a horizon that looks, in the first place, to a peaceful coexistence, to the protection of human dignity and to the respect of the rights of children and children present in our territory. Yesterday the Minister of the Interior recalled how important it would be to approve the law for the protection of unaccompanied minors, which would become a reference point in the matter of immigration and how, among other things, resources have already been allocated. I believe that it would be equally important for the European Union to share this vision of welcome, finally assuming a role of respect for people more unfortunate than us and countries, like ours, who are working to do the best they can. The Europe that is scandalized by the new excluded American policies and the walls that mark the new US administration, which seems to have forgotten the welcoming spirit of the founding Fathers: well, this Europe is not scandalized by its own little interest in respect for the fundamental rights enshrined in the New York Convention on the Rights of the Child. More is what our country does every day - we can say it with pride - working through men and women, representatives of the Forces of the Order, associations, volunteers, whom I wish to thank for their generosity, for their daily presence, silent and industrious, to be, in short, the true builders of peace. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Anitori and Mazzoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u33	Senator Anitori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have been facing a series of international migratory waves that are putting a strain on the stability and identity of modern Europe, generating a feeling of egoism and national individualism, which makes us feel a little surprised and dismayed. In the age of mass migration, the most vulnerable and at-risk social category is children and adolescents. It seems to me that starting from the defence and protection of children, as this measure does, can be a good way to build future strategies and responses to migratory waves directed towards Europe. First of all, one of the main merits of the article is to have defined who is the unaccompanied minor: the definition of unaccompanied alien minor refers, on the one hand, to the minor who does not have Italian citizenship or that of the European Union, which is, however, located in the territory of the European Union, but, on the other hand, it means to point out that this minor is a minor without assistance and representation on the part of parents and other adults. We are, therefore, faced with a person who is unable, alone, to assert his fundamental human rights. In the overall layout of this measure, one can see a sort of recognition of the universal rights of children, in those high-risk contexts where it can be difficult for them to claim, with their own identity, even what they are entitled to by nature, by virtue of a value inherent in human nature itself. In fact, as a whole, a sort of charter of the rights of unaccompanied minors is drawn up which respects their dignity and facilitates a process of responsible autonomy. This is fundamental: we welcome these children and, in the recognition of their rights, allow them to become free and responsible adults. It is precisely the draft law that recognizes the right to a reception adapted to their age and circumstances, i.e. recognizes their specificity. For these children there is a right to individual recognition, a recognition that also starts from their biological identity: for this reason there are a series of investigations respecting the freedom, autonomy and interest of these children. We recognize to these children the right to a family and, where it is not possible (because sometimes they are unaccompanied minors because their family is not in Italy), we do this by preferring for their foster families, preferring for them a tutorial system spread over the territory, but a insertion in a highly significant relational context. We do so by recognising the right to health and education, which also becomes a right to vocational training. We all know, in fact, that there is no freedom without the possibility of being autonomous and there is no possibility of being autonomous except through the possibility of doing a job and of obtaining from one's work the means of one's subsistence. We recognize to these very young people the right to be heard in all the decision-making processes that concern them, including those that have to do with justice. Finally, we recognize them as a right to special protection, because, as is stressed in the bill, the children most in need of protection are those we can call fragile minors: those minors who have been at the center of human traits, practices of prostitution and abuse, often due to the need to obtain the right favours and money to cross the territory of other countries and very often the seas and arrive in Italy. Every year, according to official statistics, about 7,000 foreign minors arrive in Italy, alone, away from the family, without reference adults. The number, as we know, is underestimated since it considers only the children identified, while there is a significant number of children not identified and forced immediately, after the arrival on the Italian soil, to enter parallel systems of exploitation and illegality. Foreign minors undertake very long journeys, through misery and weakness, dangers and challenges. The largest flows of unaccompanied foreign minors come from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Egypt, Tunisia, Nigeria, Somalia and Eritrea. Let us not forget, on the other hand, that Italy is perhaps the only country where they can arrive, not only for geographical reasons, but also because it is the country that most of all has the courage and the sense of responsibility not to turn to a human tragedy that we do not want to be faced only with bureaucratic-economic approaches and parameters. However, we must overcome the problems that still characterize the phase of the first reception, which all too often results in a situation of limbo, explosive from the point of view of social coexistence. The first form of reception must be followed by others, more structured, more qualified and, in this case, more oriented towards the recognition of children's rights. In Italy there are experiences of excellence in the reception of minors, but despite the commitment of many, both within the institutions and in the associations and voluntary networks, still today the essential rights of unaccompanied foreign minors are not always respected: I refer, for example, to the right to a decent reception, the right to the appointment of a guardian and the possibility of being heard in the choices that concern them. While Parliament was discussing this draft law, I would like to point out that the adoption of Legislative Decree No 142 of 2015 has taken place: Article 19 of this measure, implementing the European framework, is entirely dedicated to the reception of unaccompanied minors. In particular, it establishes the fundamental principle that the unaccompanied minor cannot, under any circumstances, be detained at the identification and expulsion centres and the government centres of first reception. In essence, the reception of unaccompanied minors is based, first of all, on the establishment of ad hoc government structures of first reception for the needs of relief and protection. The political duty to follow-up the European Union's intervention stems from the need to provide for an organic framework and uniform application of the rules in order to ensure equal protection throughout the national territory. A law is needed based on the many experiences of associations involved in the protection of unaccompanied foreign minors, which have made it possible to detect fundamental deficiencies and dysfunctions in the reception and protection of these minors. The fundamental point of the new discipline is surely to standardize the procedures of identification and verification, because they are very different in the different centers in Italy, thus subjecting the children to a further discomfort. Instead, it is necessary to create a national reception system. To date, unfortunately, in the absence of clear guidelines, as well as legislation of a sufficiently structured preceptive character, the fate of these children can take a different direction depending on the area of our country where they end up. For this reason, in these reception facilities, we need an adequate number of places with guaranteed quality standards. And in order to have an adequate number of places with guaranteed quality standards it is necessary to have a national database: this is the only way to regulate the sending of minors to Italy in the reception facilities located in the various regions; for this reason it is necessary to know the availability of the places, accompanied by information about any particular needs and specific needs; for this reason it becomes possible to obtain funding through a national fund that guarantees the objectives that the bill in question aims to pursue. I would like to stress another very positive aspect of the measure. I am referring to the approach, the ratio on which we build a path of active and direct participation of foreign children in all proceedings concerning them, in compliance with the principles of the Convention of the Organization of United Nations on the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence. It is the signal to recover, in a different perspective, the relationship between underage migrant and host country, which responds to the basic demands of a human person in a state of serious need. In other words, this bill aims to create those channels of listening where weak voices can reach the threshold as long as they are perceived and understood in their importance, for example in the contexts of school, access to medical care and the justice system and, finally, the introduction into the family system. To do this, we are on the side of the development of family foster care as an alternative to the community and for the evolution of the figure of voluntary guardians, networking with the guarantors for childhood and adolescence. If there is a strong personal relationship within a family context it will be easier for this boy or girl to feel recognized as a person and not as a guest of a facility. In conclusion, I would like to summarise two further virtuous approaches that this measure proposes to address the tragedy of unaccompanied minors. The first is the absolute prohibition of refusal at the border: this is an opening of credit to the child, the first interface in the sign of a trusted response. The second approach concerns the way in which, on the one hand, the individuality and singularity of the subject is favoured, and on the other hand, it stresses the need for uniformity and universality of the criteria governing the procedures and protection of foreign minors. We are asked to stick to a system of rules that are common to us and their right to uniqueness and irreprehensibility as a human person is theirs. It is in this sort of putting together of what is common, of what has a shared value, of what is shared rule and of what is personal need that a law is built which, in my opinion, has its modernity and originality, which I hope will not be reversed in the phase of finalization and implementation. Finally, it is also essential to refer, in the measure, to family investigations of the child's family, ensuring that these can be done with the consent of the child to reconstruct his family history, to know who his parents and brothers are, how the family unit is built if, when and how this responds to his need and desire, that is to say to the greater interest and to the greater protection of the investigation itself. This is essential in order to be able to then proceed to the promotion of the institution of family custody. [[Applause from the PD, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups) and Senator D'Ascola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u35	Senator Favero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, I would like to start with a problem: to save those who are child-soldiers at the moment. UNICEF data tells us about 250 million children at risk in war zones. We know that the task of adults living on this earth, regardless of the nation of origin, as well as that of all living beings, is to protect their puppies: animals do it, even more so human beings should do it. And then, on the initiative of UNICEF, ten years after the signing of the Paris commitments on the recruitment of children by groups and armed forces, the international community (it is said of eighty countries and twenty organizations present) found itself to take stock of a plague that still affects tens of thousands of minors. Over the last decade, according to UNICEF's estimates, then recalled by General Manager Anthony Lake, nearly 65,000 children have been taken from the ranks of state armies and non-governmental armed groups: think of a city of good size in Italy. It is a number that scares me, but that is still insufficient compared to the 250,000 million child soldiers in the world: it is a drop in an ocean, but it is hope. It is that hope that we want to project on the outbreaks of war that are under way, mentioned at the Conference: for example Sudan, from which some of the unaccompanied minors come, who then arrive in Italy following unimaginable paths of suffering, exploitation, violence, rape and so on. Since 2013 17,000 children would be recruited in Sudan, another beautiful city of good size of our Italy. The scourge mass destroys children also in Nigeria and the Middle East, especially in Syria and Yemen. According to the Syrian Human Rights Observatory, more than a thousand children are in Daesh's ranks (and they are all children given to Daesh). Let us start from the principles set out, from which the justice and legal systems of the nations that they consider to be evolved, which have been signed by 108 countries (important signatures are counted, such as those of Tunisia, Kazakhstan, Myanmar and others). Let us say that they intervene on this issue, on legal rules and with the moral obligation not to recruit children. This is a good job, because, in my opinion, we must start to act, in parallel, even where there are problems. It is not only a first aid action, when the emergency occurs and the children arrive, thinking about what to do, how to behave, how to deal with the situation and the resources. These are the problems, I heard them say here, but you have to go and find the origin. Cooperation between States and all types of representatives of civil society should therefore be strengthened. This measure, approved in the Chamber, as has already been said, on 26 October 2016, really introduces important changes to the current legislation. Perhaps some Members have read it but have not read it in depth or perhaps they have not wanted to see it: just as there are invisible children, there are invisible paths within this Parliament. We have heard the numbers, we have seen that in the conclusion of the work of the bicameral committee for children, approved after the conduct of a survey, there are critical issues. Damn it, there are absolutely no such thing, and that should help to lay off a measure that we believe is indispensable. Indispensable because these children are not invisible, even if we may, sometimes, be comfortable that they are: if we do not see them it is as if they were not there, so it is not our problem. If you allow, however, it is my problem as an adult, as an educator (since I am a teacher), as an administrator (since I have been a city council member for social policies, with the task of tutoring and protecting children). We are very good at crying and moving about Aylan and we are also very honest when it happens, but when the time comes to vote we make distinctions and break the hair in four, let's say that this is a measure that is fine but maybe you could do better or you could equip it with more resources. In this way you never start and these children continue to be there and for whom? For the criminal organizations that use them - and we know that - at work. I know that, since I am also concerned with this, in the Committee of Inquiry which investigates the phenomenon of the caporalate. They use them for organ trafficking, they use them for dealing, they use them in many ways, making them work, as happened in our country many years ago, in a distant era (although they tell me that there seems to be a regurgitation of child labour and I wish there wasn't). The European Parliament, too, recently intervened in a resolution of 12 September 2013 to ask the Member States, the European Commission to strengthen the protection guaranteed to unaccompanied foreign minors, suggesting some actions that have been taken (and I thank the Commission, which has worked a lot, in its entirety, not only the rapporteur). What happened was that the same year, in 2013, Mr Zampa of the Democratic Party Group in the House presented a first bill, signed also by colleagues from other parliamentary groups, because children should not be divided, but there should be a communion of intent. On foreigners, however, we may be divided: are they less children than others? Not for me and not for international conventions. For others yes, for others something else always comes first: our children, the poor, the non-poor. No, the children arrive first of all, regardless of the country of origin and origin. This is the lighthouse of my personal, political and cultural formation. This should be the lighthouse of being adults, which should involve the awareness that we have to invest in them. Maybe it is, however, every other day, as if it were an intermittent current. It's a dramatic phenomenon of very significant proportions (numbers have been remembered and I don't want to repeat them). We know that crime exploits the need for thousands of asylum seekers to travel within the Union without a passport or visa. This weakness of migrants is compounded by the inability of the European authorities, which would perhaps require a mechanism of harmonisation, if not too much, of the forms of control and police that would enable more results to be achieved. This phenomenon creates a turnover of millions of euros. This thesis is supported by all non-governmental associations and organizations, which have already been mentioned and which I do not mention because I would forget some of them, which deal with children with so much love and zeal. In 2014, an investigation by the British newspaper . The Guardian reported that the majority of Eritrean minors arriving in Italy refuse to be identified by the authorities because if they were registered in Italy the Treaty of Dublin would not allow them to apply for asylum in other countries of the Union. For this reason most of them run away from the reception centers and live on the street, sleeping where they find place, maybe in railway stations or parks. Other investigations have denounced that children are employed in agriculture and in the wholesale of fruits and vegetables, which in Italy escapes the control of the authorities. These investigations confirm Europol's alarm and point out that there is a responsibility to combat the exploitation and enslavement of foreign children in Europe that cannot be entrusted solely to the Forces of Order. It is not possible to find a concrete response to the exploitation of children if we do not offer adequate reception to the thousands of people who have arrived at our borders in recent years in search of a better life. The draft law, which has been improved through the examination of colleagues in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, addresses the problems that I have highlighted: it regulates the first reception measures; it provides for the identification of minors; it regulates family investigations and assisted return; it regulates custody and protection; it lays down the rules on residence permits; it establishes the national information system for unaccompanied minors; it strengthens their rights and protections. The approval of the measure allows, therefore, Italy to equip itself with a reception system for unaccompanied minors that exceeds the emergency management of these years, which can be defined as a continuous first aid. It also responds to the many requests made by associations and organisations dealing with migrants and minors and, last but not least, to the calls on European and international organisations. We are outraged when we see certain scenes or see on television certain spots that use children, but then we leave - the data have been mentioned also by my colleague Puglisi - that girls of about thirteen years are put on the road and exploited by criminal organizations. This is very dangerous. The Pope has recently spoken about the problems of migrants and, then, I would like to quote his words. I pray to those who have not yet done so to deepen them. He used the words: "welcome", "protect", "promote" and "integrate". We must accept with adequate space and adopt all international and national legal instruments; we need to promote, because protecting is not enough, and we need to implement care through justice and equity. Being able to emigrate must be a right. I can and I have to emigrate and no one has to stop me. In my home we must promote actions, as I said before, that help me to be well, but you understand that, when my father is at war and I am hired, I take away resources so that in that society there are the arms necessary to work, create employment and give that country a future. The arms, in fact, that should work, are taken away from work in the fields to be employed in wars, which are so many. Then there is the duty of justice. Economic inequalities are no longer sustainable. I should like to end by hoping that there will be a large number of colleagues who will vote for the measure. In addition to the rules that we approve today, the most effective response is the solidarity of Italians who extrinse themselves - it has already been said in a wonderful way - through the work of the Coast Guard, the Carabinieri, the Forces of Order, the Red Cross, Civil Protection and numerous NGOs. Everyone is busy, and this is recognised internationally. We are, however, in a unique and global world. The good of others is ours. Ensuring a better future for others means guaranteeing it to us too. Only those who live in the small courtyard of the house and closed in their own world do not understand that investing also on the future of these children not Italian, but of the world - our children are children of the world and also these are - means making Italy grow in a future tomorrow. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u37	We greet the Istituto Statale di Educazione Superiore (State Institute of Higher Education) -Piero Gobetti-Alessandro Volta in Bagno a Ripoli, in the province of Florence, which is present with its teachers and students. Thank you for your presence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u38	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u39	Mr President, I would like to make a first remark: the law - which we hope will soon become such - has been awaited for three years. It is a law on reception and protection, it is a systematization normative, that has been demanded for a long time from various associations and from all the operators more careful. For this reason, in order to speed up the process, we were immediately available - and I would like to reiterate this here - to withdraw all the amendments and sub-amendments that we have tabled to the rapporteur's texts. We have, of course, made a positive assessment of the House's text, although perhaps it could have been further improved. We have taken this decision precisely to give an opportunity to speed up the adoption of the measure. I want to remember what happened, because we have to record some elements in an effort to improve them. On the text approved by the Chamber, the technical report arrived and adjustments were requested by the General Accounting Office of the State, translated into a conditional opinion by the 5th Commission. What I am going to say is for this bill, but also for many other measures: I think it is time to redefine the Chamber Regulations. We have tried for three years to have a debate on constitutional reform to speed up the parliamentary process. Let me point out that this simple thing could also be done at the end of the parliamentary term. Why do we not align the Rules of Procedure of the Senate with the Rules of the House, or vice versa, as in this case? In fact, the opinions of the Accounting Office are given to the House on the text and not on the amendments, with the result that when the measure arrives in the Senate, even if you want to do it soon, as in this case, we have the impediment. The result is that, as soon as the text has been adopted in the Senate, as quickly as possible (and today we are only going to have the general discussion and I do not think we can approve it), the measure will have to return to the House, not saying defeating, but certainly mitigating the impact of the goodwill of many opposition forces - not only ours, but also others - who have actually tried to give a boost to this bill. Why do I say that this measure is absolutely urgent and, after many months of examination by the Senate, have we decided to make sure that its process was accelerated? Because the data must make us think: only in 2016 26,000 foreign minors, children, adolescents arrived. Beware that those who arrived in January 2017 alone are 24 percent more than those who arrived in January of the previous year; there is therefore a continuing trend towards an increase. Among other things, these data indicate that, compared to the arrival of all immigrants, the impact of minors is considerable, even in percentage terms. Another fact that must make us think and that the rapporteur has done well to remember - otherwise we have some strange reasoning - is the data relating to minors who disappear after arriving on our territory (partly already arrive with traffickers and are taken over before leaving). We have a large number of minors, children and girls who are intercepted by criminal associations (because of this we are talking about) and are therefore the subject of sexual exploitation or used for dealing or other illegal activities; and perhaps there is even worse behind the disappearance of these children, girls and boys. So we can't just ignore it anymore. I have heard absolutely unsatisfying arguments from some of my colleagues, between demagogy and wanting to totally ignore the phenomenon. I appeal to everyone and say that we can no longer ignore anything, postponing the implementation of a structured and efficient system to protect them, to increase the level of protection in an appropriate way and above all to make the application of the rules homogeneous. These children are in fact exposed to all kinds of dangers and risks. I therefore believe that the delay in approving this measure has exposed them even more to a situation of danger because of the difficulties of an inadequate reception system. We have all the elements: Save the Children, who has consistently followed this measure, has made a report that tells us exactly what they are exposed to. That's why we have to hurry. I hope that the House, when the text comes back, will approve it in three hours, so that we finally give this country a proper regulatory system, because the current one - I repeat - does not work. We need a new law, because we need to give concreteness to some words that are often used, such as solidarity and reception, through a system of rules, protection and services, an adequate and efficient system, that is able to take responsibility and guarantee the rights of these children. The text - as we have said - could certainly have been further improved, but already during the debate and the proceedings in the Chamber some amendments by the Italian Left have been adopted which have helped to improve the text itself, finally producing a uniform and organic legislation, which strengthens the instruments of protection and ensures homogeneity in application. To sum up, the various rules give a new definition of unaccompanied alien minors, so as to extend the concept to asylum seekers as well. This is an absolutely fundamental element. Article 3, on which I would like to dwell, because then we will find it again and probably we will have to discuss it well even when we face the Minniti decree, in our opinion it is very important, because on the one hand it confirms the prohibition of expulsion of the child, already provided for in our law, and on the other it explicitly introduces also the prohibition of refusal at the border of unaccompanied foreign minors. I say this because I believe that, subsequently, on the basis of this article, we will have to make changes to that decree and, therefore, coordinate legislation. The other absolutely fundamental elements of this measure concern the structures of first assistance and reception. It is expressly said that the structures must be exclusively intended for them, trying in some way to give normative cogency to the need to eliminate promiscuity. This is another problem that we have to face. This is a very serious problem, which the Undersecretary knows, and which creates very high risks for children. The measure also states that all identification operations must be completed within ten days; of course, from text to operation, we will see, but it is a fundamental issue. From this point of view, we must have careful monitoring of the right rules that we introduce. The other fundamental question - and this is why I was talking about homogeneity - concerns the new provisions aimed at regulating, in a uniform way throughout the national territory, the procedures for identifying the child, which constitute the fundamental step for the ascertainment of the minor age and, above all, to ensure that all measures of protection in favour of children can be applied, in order to effectively start the mechanism of taking charge. We also have other fundamental elements: the list of caretakers, the questions of Article 8 concerning assisted and voluntary return, which attribute the adoption of measures to the Court of First Instance, the national information system for unaccompanied minors and, another element that I find absolutely important, the list of voluntary guardians, among other things, entrusted to the ordinary courts. The other element that I think is absolutely important is that which extends the system of rights, i.e. the full guarantee of health care, the right to education and - and this very important aspect too - the integration of the system of trust in an organic way into the system of reception and take-over. There are also other important and fundamental rules, which are part of a structured and organic system which, in our view, should have positive effects, especially on the serious situation we are facing. I do not go back to data, to suffering, but in this way we give the opportunity to offer a system of reception and, above all, to guarantee protection. In our country come these children, these minors and it is the fundamental task of the Republic and the State to fully guarantee their protection. It will be a tough battle; taking them away from the system in which they enter and in which they are often identified, even before leaving, by organized crime, will - I repeat - be a very hard battle. However, I believe that this law can help to defeat the exploitation of criminal associations and, above all, it can make a step forward to the reception system, guaranteeing protection, assistance, integration and rights for these children. There is no emphasis: it is a question of finally introducing an adequate system of protection, to simply do our duty and ensure the application of the principles, values and constitutional rights for anyone who arrives in our territory. [[Applause from the Mixed-SI-SEL and PD Groups and Senator Mazzoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u40	Senator Ferrara Elena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, as a member of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights and of the Bicameral Parliamentary Committee for Childhood and Adolescence, I would like to express my deep satisfaction, which I would like to share with all those who have determinedly wanted this rule, starting with the first signatory, Sandra Zampa and the co-signatory Members. However, I would also like to extend it, together with the thanks due to the many people who participated in its drafting, such as Save the Children, UNICEF, Terre des hommes, Caritas, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNCHR), the humanitarian organization Intersos, the Community of Sant'Egidio, Defence for children, Emergency, Oxfam Italy, the Italian Council for Refugees, the National Coordination of Host Community, the territorial associations and the constellation of associations for the defence of children's rights and voluntary associations. The rapid continuation of this rule, which gives equal dignity and rights to children, girls, boys and girls who are on the territory of our nation and who puts in place arrangements to deal with a phenomenon, such as that of unaccompanied foreign minors, which has taken on disturbing connotations over the years, as we heard this morning in this House. It is a regulation that introduces new measures and builds on procedures refined over the years and that find a precise and more precise regulation in the legal text. The Italian Parliament had already highlighted some critical issues and some shortcomings in the current regulatory framework in the final document of the bicameral commission for children approved following the conduct of a cognitive survey in 2009. The European Parliament, more recently, also intervened in its resolution of 12 September 2013 to ask the Member States and the European Commission to strengthen the protection guaranteed to unaccompanied foreign minors, while suggesting some strategic actions to be taken. In the first Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the Senate, where the text was examined in the referent, it was combined with the draft law presented at the first signature of Senator Francesca Puglisi, laying down measures for the protection and protection of unaccompanied foreign persons of an unaccompanied age, of which I was immediately a convinced co-signator. Parliament has therefore long been working on the rules contained in this text. The article affirms the principle that, regardless of the intention to apply for international protection, unaccompanied foreign minors are entitled to the protection of minors on equal treatment with minors of Italian nationality or of the European Union. All the provisions of the text of the bill are therefore applied to unaccompanied foreign minors, due to their condition of greater vulnerability. In the current context, where migratory flows are an incontrovertible reality, it was clear to all that there was a need for legislation that, by putting the rights of children under the UN Convention at the centre, sought to ensure a protection network for children at risk of exploitation, to dangers to their safety and to serious violations of fundamental rights. The Committee on the Rights of Children of the United Nations, in reference to General Comment No. 6 and the IX report on the implementation of the Working Group on the Convention on the Rights of Childhood and Adolescence (CRC) have indicated to Italy the need to introduce comprehensive legislation to ensure assistance and protection for unaccompanied foreign minors, stressing that the problem to be solved was the non-uniformity of reception procedures in the territory and highlighting the urgency of organising standards of protection able to give system responses. Thus the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI), in all institutional fora, has asked that the Municipalities could be supported with system actions in adapting their interventions to the needs of vulnerable migrants, especially if they are minor alone, in order to prepare and enhance the forms of reception and integration more responsive to the needs of this particular category of weak subjects. The agreement signed in Unified Conference already in 2014 has determined a turning point for the purpose of returning to a system governance with the taking charge of unaccompanied foreign minors, committing the Ministry of the Interior to expand the posts in the System of protection asylum seekers and refugees (SPRAR) to ensure reception to all minors (asylum and non-asylum applicants) and to prepare procedures for the reception of the same. Subsequently, Legislative Decree No. 142 of 2015 and the establishment of the National Fund for unaccompanied minors represented a further step in the construction of the system. In fact, despite the significant commitment of many local authorities (not only the metropolitan municipalities), the constant increase of unaccompanied foreign minors has created in local administrations problems that cannot be underestimated in the reception of the same, both in view of the lack of human and financial resources, and the unpreparedness of the territorial contexts. During the hearing on Tuesday 21 February at the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights (two days ago), Minister Minniti hoped that the measure under discussion would be approved quickly. On Friday, February 17, the 2017 Decree-Law No 13 was published in the Official Journal, with urgent provisions for speeding up international protection proceedings, as well as for the fight against illegal immigration. In explaining its content, the Minister reiterated that the reception by the municipalities must be based on a principle of voluntaryness; moreover, there are as many as 2,700 municipalities that have joined so far. On the occasion he also informed that, in agreement with the Ministry of Economy and Finance, administrative procedures have already been started so that the resources allocated under the budget law can be used promptly. Although with significant differences, local authorities have tried to address the problem of unaccompanied foreign minors who require, in addition to the appropriate economic resources, professional skills, procedures and specific reception to protect the rights of minors and support them with appropriate interventions, with residential receptions, educational accompaniment paths, training and social inclusion that require the implementation of networking interventions with all the actors involved. In a system that is not yet organized in an integrated way, in a situation that is not yet fully structured, a significant percentage of children (about 28 percent) is irreperable and therefore more exposed to risks of all kinds: as we have heard, there is more risk of being involved in drug dealing or theft, while for girls there is evidence of exploitation in prostitution (they are victims of trafficking), not to mention more serious problems such as organ trafficking. For the purpose of the census of foreign minors present in Italy, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers n. 535 of 1999 provided that public officials, public service officers and bodies, in particular those carrying out health or care activities, who are nevertheless aware of the entry or presence on the territory of the State of an unaccompanied foreign minor, are required to give immediate notice to the ministerial management, by means suitable to guarantee its confidentiality. However, we are well aware of the limitations of these measures, which are now exceeded by the provisions contained in this measure concerning the Information and Reception System, which is fed by the so-called social records of unaccompanied minors, compiled by the qualified staff who conducts the interview with the minor during the first reception phase. The folder includes all the elements useful for determining a long-term solution for the child, in its best interest. Failure to enter or move away from the protection system for reasons that vary from the desire to work and obtain money to send to the family of origin, to the refusal or non-acceptance of reception centers create highly critical conditions, in which there is the establishment of problems of discomfort and marginalization up to the drift represented by the exploitation by the organized delinquency. It is in order to combat as much as possible these phenomena that have been reached by the Chamber to the approval of this bill that, not pursuing the objective of constituting a special law, puts in place provisions aimed at applying the protection system in force in Italy to all minors. 11:55 a.m. (Ferrara Elena followed). The draft law defines the right to the recognition of a minor by aligning the procedures for identifying and determining age; strengthening the right to health care, education and vocational training; the right to the appointment of a guardian in order to be able to be heard in the choices that concern them; the translation into uniform operational practices at national level of the various passages for the preparation of the reception project. It provides for and establishes the activation of a national information system. The continuity of the financing of a national fund for the reception of unaccompanied foreign minors which affects as little as possible on the budgets of municipalities. The promotion of hospitality in communities with the development of family foster care as an alternative to the community. In this latter direction and in the processes of development of a welcoming and inclusive community, local authorities are invited to operate, which can concretely promote reception opportunities, even widespread, and activate social inclusion processes that bring the community to face different cultural experiences and equality in the use of human rights. In relation to the right to education, the rule encourages the activation of specific measures, starting from the time of the inclusion of the child in the reception facilities, by the educational institutions and educational institutions accredited by the regions to facilitate the fulfilment of the compulsory education and training by children, including through agreements aimed at promoting specific apprenticeship programmes, as well as the preparation of specific projects involving cultural mediators. The guidelines issued by the MIUR in February 2014 devote attention to unaccompanied foreign children, for whom their history of suffering and different aspects of skills, including linguistic aspects, must be taken into account. I quote: For their inclusion it must be taken into account that, due to past experience of deprivation and abandonment, the skills in their native language may also be very limited compared to the pupil's age, making it necessary to adopt personalised compensatory strategies. As a member of the Education and Culture Commission, I would like in particular to stress the importance of the specific reference at the time of education and training, not only as fundamental contexts of inclusion, but also in the dimension of social emancipation from the serious dangers that particularly vulnerable people may face. The school, therefore, but also the vocational training courses, with inclusion in work placements, represent an opportunity for foreign children who can thus find space in the community, mature a real social integration and offer support to the communities of origin (as they probably have committed themselves to) with the dignity of a remuneration. It is precisely on the index of school attendance that the law of ius soli has been set which I hope here in the Senate will be resumed as soon as possible. Isn't it necessary to force? Well, let's not do it, but let's discuss it and approve it. Also from experience linked to my previous administrative activity I would like to emphasize, in particular, the promotion of family custody, which, in addition to meeting the objectives of integration and inclusion, allows children and young people to live an experience in the family. After school, surely the family comes; a family that can represent a necessary and truly irreplaceable reference, especially in cases of young children. And we in Italy have many good practices in this regard. While this law is aware that the problems related to migration flows are a very complex issue, it will certainly guarantee greater protection for unaccompanied minors, support local authorities (for which the share of 5% is limited) with the availability of resources and programming of interventions and services in the context of a sharing of functions, roles and responsibilities by the bodies involved such as police, prefecture, community reception, Court for minors, Childhood and Adolescence Supervisor, third sector and of course voluntary associations. The recent report by Greta, the body of the Council of Europe composed of anti-trafficking experts, recognises the importance of this measure of ours which rationalises the reception system for unaccompanied minors in all its aspects (and in this we recognize our measure) effectively counteracting the insinuation of crime based on exploitation and trafficking of human beings. The report urges us to conclude the approval process. However, we also ask Europe not to leave Italy alone in the front line to manage the difficult phenomenon of epochal migrations, which can only be tackled in an effective way if Europe is united in a political project of reception and integration. No child and no child should land on our shores and face life paths alone that are incompatible with any idea of civilization: the recognition of equal rights for those who are entitled to enhanced protection. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Mazzoni, who, as Vice-President of the Commission for Human Rights and as a member of the 1st Commission, has worked hard. I thank the Government and all the colleagues who, even from different political cultures, have worked to approve this important measure which represents a great step of civilization. Let us finally approve it as soon as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Mazzoni]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u42	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, imagine running away from a country where there is war, violence, barbarism, to land in another country, of which, however, nothing is known: language, roads, habits, traditions, laws. Imagine that you have not yet turned eighteen, to be fragile, to be cold, but not a cold due to the weather conditions, but a cold, a frost that enters the bones and that arises from the fear of having lost your family, your roots, your future. Then, after all this, imagine that you are alone, lost. This is the situation in which thousands of unaccompanied minors arrive every year on Italian territory. They are unconscious victims of geopolitical mutations and conflicts in which they have not decided to participate or would like to take part. For this reason they run away and for this reason we cannot ignore this phenomenon. In the last report of the Directorate-General for Immigration and Integration Policies of the Ministry of Labour, the unaccompanied foreign minors present and recorded in Italy are exactly 17,245, of which about 16,000 male and little more than a thousand female. Of these, 7.5 percent are seven to fourteen years old, while the 15 to seventeen age group is over 90 percent - terrible figures. Most of them come from Egypt, Gambia, Albania, Nigeria, Eritrea. We are talking about boys who are mostly welcomed in Sicily (well 40 percent of them are hosted there), but also in Calabria, Emilia-Romagna and, gradually, to fall, in the remaining Regions of Italy. However, the most chilling fact is that many of these minors, after a certain amount of time, become invisible, i.e. invisible, not traceable by the authorities, sucked by an inexplicable vortex. And when oblivion comes, there is no registry or bank-data to hold: that minor will no longer be found or become the victim of a trafficking of organs, closed in a brothel to commodify the body between abuse and angherias, chino on fields exterminated to collect tomatoes or watermelons. That minor, from that moment on, precisely because it escapes censuses, no longer exists for society, no longer exists for anyone, only for those who intend to use it or for this type of society. All this is truly unacceptable, dramatic, terrifying. There is a real international crime network that uses child trafficking for abominable purposes, and you know that. A phenomenon that mainly affects young Egyptians, Somalis and Eritreans. According to the 1989 New York Convention, every human being under the age of eighteen is a child. In this regard, I want to make a note: when you are underage there can be no distinctions of treatment, and if it is true that there are physical differences between a minor who is eight years old and one who is sixteen, the same cannot be said for their condition. Both, in fact, need to the same extent of help and support, starting from a hot meal, passing through an appropriate structure where to stay, to end up an appropriate path of psychological support. We come to today, therefore, to this bill presented to the House on 4 October 2013, almost four years ago, which took more than three years to arrive in this Assembly, precisely because of a long stop at the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in the House. It is a text that immediately raised doubts, among other things also because of the presence of the clause of financial invariance, an issue - also noted by our colleagues in the House - on which the usual halo of mystery remains, because it is difficult to think that such a measure can be implemented at zero cost. At this point it comes to think: is the umpteenth - we are sure - provision with which you wash your face in the morning? The umpteenth measure with which you go forward to say: you have to start somewhere, we have to do something, then let's try to do this? In fact, this measure, like other precedents also in other fields, does not lead anywhere: you put some firm points (not those that would serve), but in reality you do not say how to finance the interventions. It is only said: this must be done and that must be done, but real measures must not be taken. Like that, for example, of removing truly ignoble people from the CIE, CARA and CAS management structures: I am talking about Subsecretaries and people who continue to preside over the Council of Ministers. I am talking about people who remain in the structures of the Ministries or in Parliament, even though they have no right and continue to benefit from certain situations. You know that, but don't do anything to take them off. Shortly before, Mr Airola mentioned the undersecretary Castiglione who continues to work in a state structure that should guarantee protection and protection, but the same person does nothing but care about it, as you highly care about it too! [[Applause from Senator Airola]] Let us return to the measure in question: a paragraph from here, a paragraph from there, a correction from there, and it is just the contentment that we must give and the task that we must bring home, but you know that you always leave the doubt on credibility. It is the doubt, which then becomes certain, of a measure that will never be translated into its practical effects because there is no financial level. You have to explain: how do you want to protect these children? With a hug or a pat on the shoulder? With what? [[Applause from Senator Nugnes]] Or do you really want to protect them? If you continue on this path you will become more and more accomplices of such a system: a bald system that wants to do but does not, that says but does not put into practice. In conclusion, these migratory phenomena in the last decade have often been the result of exploitations: always your exploitations, those that with your Governments you have carried on and continue to carry on today, except then fill your mouth with the usual fried air. In fact, in this House this morning we heard words, words and words: yet another word. Mr Albano (PD). We were waiting for yours! WOMAN (M5S). From this we take a strong distance. We are ready for the facts and we also want to ask you: do you really believe that these people, the children specifically, if they had choice, would decide to cross adverse seas and thorny borders to come here to Italy and be managed by someone who uses them for the most perverse purposes? Do you really believe that? Or would they like to be in a different Italy, be part of a state and contribute to its economy? To exaggerate the political debate with a little rhetoric and offensive does not lead to anything, except to open the umpteenth Pandora Vase. Therefore, the protection of these children must remain a shared mission. Italy's action is fine, but this mission must be shared by the other European States. We need help. However, if a real proposal does not start from Italy, how do you expect Europe to support us? That's the other dilemma. Give us an answer. We are sure, however, that you do not care and that you will never give us an answer. You do not want to give answers, just as you do not want to protect minors, both from abroad and from Italy. You've seen what you've done with the cyberbullying measure. I repeat, you've seen it. As I said, the absence of international cooperation can lead to the worst evil, namely the failure of the objective. But failure is you, because you absolutely don't want to solve the problems: just talk about it (except for some really sensitive and eager to do). At this point, I borrow a phrase from the recently deceased sociologist Bauman, who rightly argued that travel for profit is encouraged; travel for survival is condemned. In this condemnation, in fact, there is only the political embarrassment to deal systematically and reasonedly with the subject. I conclude by saying that these waves of horror hide strong economic interests and lucrative strategies with a huge scope and to make the cost of it cannot be children, the youngest and, for this reason, the weakest. So who knows and, despite everything, does, is an accomplice - I repeat, is an accomplice - and, as such, must be condemned. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u44	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the All-inclusive State Institute "Giuseppe Spataro" of Gissi, in the province of Chieti, who are attending our work. Welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u45	She is registered to speak Senator Fasiolo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Undersecretary Manzione, the bill that is being discussed extensively this morning, approved by the House of Deputies, is intended to protect - repetita iuvant - unaccompanied foreign minors present in the territory of the State for any cause and therefore not having Italian citizenship. The majority expressed a highly positive view of the measure. A positive transversality has characterized the process of examining the bill for the need to safeguard the value of human dignity and of the person, who is the basis of our constitutional dictation. Respect for unbearable human rights is imposed in a forum - I am referring to our own, the parliamentary one - which must draw everyone across to fundamental duties. The response with an organic law to the needs of unaccompanied foreign minors is today a due responsibility to the most vulnerable. I accept as a very important fact of the measure as provided for in Article 3, i.e. the prohibition of refusal at the border of minors who are entitled to maximum protection. According to recent data published by UNICEF, in 2016 there were about 25,800 minors who reached Italy by sea, more than twice as much as the previous year. They represent 91 percent of all the more than 28,000 minors who reached Italy in 2016. I am pleased that young people and young people are listening to this data from the forums and it would be very appropriate for the school to reflect on it. They come mostly from the sea, from Egypt, Syria, Nigeria, Eritrea and Horn of Africa, but not only; they also come from Afghanistan and Pakistan, as fast as a wave, and as a wave disappears, disappeared by criminal structures (there are over 6,000 impossible). If we then think that only in the first two weeks of 2017, despite the adverse climatic conditions, have arrived in Italy by sea almost 800 migrants of every age, the triple compared to last year in the same period, we can imagine data still increasing relative to unaccompanied minors. I believe that some of the points mentioned in the draft law, such as the provision of facilities intended exclusively for first assistance and reception, must be in dignified conditions and in which minors must be protected from situations of promiscuity. The situations monitored by prefectures and reception centres, followed by organizations such as Caritas, Save the Children and the Italian Refugee Council, tell desperate stories of minors fleeing from poverty, slavery, war and violence. Often, as I have already said, they disappear into thin air, slaves to other dramatic situations and other slavery. Younger teenagers in particular are exposed to a high risk of exploitation and abuse, to which they are also forced to pay the cost of traveling across the Mediterranean. Dramatic situations accompany most of the children and young people who embark on a journey to Europe or who also arrive there by land. Let's think about the images we see every day about Syrian and Libyan disasters or Aleppo's drama. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the European Charter of the Person are being broken. Article 6 of the bill, to which I refer, which deals with the identification of foreign minors not accompanied since the first reception, reveals and responds to the absolute delicacy of the moment of the interview, which is aimed at deepening the family history of the minor and to bring out every useful element to his protection. The paragraphs are largely protecting the unbearable needs of protection and provide for the intervention of professional figures such as the cultural mediator and socio-health professionals trained of high competence and sensitivity. The rule therefore calls for the identification of the child as an essential element to ensure proper humanitarian and psychological assistance, with attention to the fact that often the declared age is lower than the real one. The draft law presents other new and significant elements, including those set out in Articles 6 and following: after hearing the child in his or her interest, there is the initiation of investigations to identify suitable families to take care of him or her before any placement in the community; another point is related to the adoption of solutions such as assisted and voluntary repatriation, only when the reunion with the family members in the third country corresponds to the best interest of the child. The best interest of the minor: this is the concept, the keyword that repeats itself. This also happens before repatriation, therefore, when both the minor and the guardian are heard. The centrality of the bill under consideration, therefore, is the greater interest of the minor, and it is not a small one. In particular, there is the right of the child to protection: for this reason it is envisaged to establish a registry, a national information system and a social file for the registration of personal data. The prohibition of rejection of applications for residence permits and expulsions is also specified; a list of voluntary guardians, additional protection figures, is also established, which must be kept at the Court of Minors. Private citizens, selected and trained by regional childcare and adolescence guarantors, who are willing to take on the protection of an unaccompanied or more minor alien, may be included in this list in order to preserve the family in the case of brothers and sisters. It is therefore a very complex matter. Residential structures that aspire to host children must also meet minimum standards of services and be authorised or accredited under national and regional legislation. In choosing the place where to place the child, account must be taken of the needs and characteristics of the child, always learned through the interview. During the course of the other articles, long-term integration measures, training courses and social integration are envisaged, and in this the school plays a very central role, it is really protagonist (the Senator Elena Ferrara has talked about it extensively and exhaustively, therefore I skip the references I made on this structure). Health care, therefore, for the promotion of education, preparation of specific projects that provide, through cultural mediators, conventions aimed at promoting apprenticeship programmes (today the children talk about alternation, even that was to be a crucial moment), up to the accompaniment to the age. These rules are integrated with the provisions of the Single Text on the discipline of immigration and the conditions of the foreigner, in which a specific function of the educational institutions is envisaged. These rules are, in fact, coordinated with the regulations of the MIUR. I highlight the importance of the FAMI Minor Borders project, a national project being implemented, curated by Save the Children and the Italian Refugee Council. In this project have been agreed not only common objectives, but also various activities for which organizational phases are being started for the reception and integration of unaccompanied minors. These projects involve the training of operators in reception centres, tutors, prefecture staff, local commission staff, cultural mediators and others, and therefore all the structures and institutions that deal with the subject. It is important that all these operations become effective and waste and duplication be avoided. I believe that we must work by monitoring the effectiveness of the nascent projects, those already existing but also those in perspective, so that they really favour the places of inclusion and full and total transparency, because we do not run the risk of feeding swallows of self-referentiality and other interests: the interests must be those of the children and that is enough. It is essential, therefore, that a system response be created through this measure, therefore a real strengthening of protection against minors, therefore the most vulnerable, of support and solidarity across the board, so that our country, Italy, is even more an example for other countries for policies of solidarity and reception, not only for humanitarian commitment, but for effective and effective integration. Finally, I would like to thank all those who, at every level, work in the world of immigration and help with passion, disinterest and self-denial the world of the most vulnerable and the most fragile. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u47	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u48	Madam President, the draft law stems from an objective necessity: in recent years tens of thousands of unaccompanied minors have arrived in Italy. The figure has risen a lot since our Navy, helped by non-profit organizations declared, transports anyone to sea from Libya and has traveled a few miles, so as to get close - and not always beyond the borders - to territorial waters. Our Navy picks them up and takes them to Italy. Therefore, it is obvious that there has been a great increase. As has been said in many interventions prior to mine, many of these minors arrived in Italy disappear. The concerns of those who think that, among these children who disappear, there are many that end badly. There is even talk of organ trafficking. It is undoubtedly a possible hypothesis because, when they disappear, anything can happen. Less chilling assumptions, but very worrying and much more widespread are those of labour exploited for illegal economic activities or, even, for crime. In view of this situation, it is clear that measures must be taken. The large number of minors who disappear also depends on the government's policy that, for some time, has made the smart not recording immigrants, minors and not, who arrived in Italy hoping to be free and to be able to send them to other European countries, aspiration of many of these people coming from Africa. The attempt to get rid of this burden has been made in a way that is not very elegant and not with great respect for legality and is, moreover, ineffective since the other European countries have clearly told us that they no longer want them in part because they have already taken several and in part because they simply do not want them. Faced with this phenomenon, a bill is carried out in which there is an abundance and a display of generosity and really extraordinary good intentions that start from the assumption that all minors who arrive in Italy are very young children exhausted by hunger, persecuted and fleeing to rocambolica to save their lives, as well as very candid souls who will come in our country anxious to water themselves to the goodness and legality of our country. If this were the reality, the bill would be excellent, with the only defect of not having the necessary cover to do what it will oblige to do. In fact, among other things, it is scandalous that there has been - if there has been - the green light of the budget Commission because there are potential expenditures that are difficult to estimate, but certainly very high that are covered with ludicrous sums. But at least from the point of view of the effects it would be good: these children, who come to Italy hungry and exhausted forces, would be helped. This is right and it is elementary humanity. However, the real world is not this. The lack of a sense of reality is a very serious fact in politics: good intentions are of no use in politics, if they are not contemporaneous with the sense of reality. The greatest misfortunes have been caused more often by those who, with good intentions, have not considered reality, reaching disastrous results, rather than by those who have acted out of pure and direct wickedness. The situation, in fact, is not the one that is honestly imagined in the spirit of this bill. A given should already induce some suspicion. Between 2014 and 2016 45,000 unaccompanied minors arrived in Italy, or rather people who declared themselves unaccompanied minors: 13.000 in 2014, 12.000 (more or less the same number) in 2015 and, then, in 2016 a big leap to 20,000; probably, everything suggests that in 2017 this number will be further exceeded. Of these, 53 percent are over seventeen years old. It is curious that there is this demographic crowd right about the age of seventeen. This should create some suspicion. Strange, isn't it? Just 8 percent are under 14 years of age, so they're all teenagers, at least. And then there's this 17-year-old demographic bubble. The suspicion that many are far from seventeen years old is very strong, I would say that it is a statistical certainty. If they are underage, in fact, they have a number of advantages. Article 1 is beautiful in its good intentions, but very dangerous in reality. Article 1 reads as follows: "Unaccompanied foreign minors - without specifying how long they are not accompanied - are entitled to the rights to protect minors on equal treatment with minors of Italian nationality or of the European Union." Later it is specified that under no circumstances can there be the rejection of an unaccompanied minor. So whoever doesn't have a white beard will have an interest in declaring himself a minor. Maybe the beard, if it has it, reduces it a little, so much so that there is the joke: after Save the Children, the praiseworthy association (that if you care more about the children who are in Africa, rather than those who come to Europe, it would be better, but that still carries out many commendable activities), you have switched to shave the children, that is, shave the children so that they look like children. Maybe they're 25 years old, with their pretty beard all the way to the navel, shave them and automatically become underage. This guarantees a number of advantages for them, because they get all the benefits already foreseen before this law, well known, and makes them much more profitable for those who will receive them: however you see it, whatever the estimates on the cost of foreigners that are received in Italy, it is clear that minors, only for the centers that welcome them, cost - or make, depending on the point of view - from 10 to 15 euros per day more. There is, therefore, an obvious further advantage. We add that there is the risk of applying another norm of Italian laws, which provides that the minor that is found on Italian soil and that you do not know where it comes from can even have Italian citizenship. It is almost a comedy case of Terenzio, that of the child who is found, and it is normal that this happens: it is not that you ask the certificate to the abandoned child. But when the baby has a beard, things change. On the fact that he has a beard of patience, but there are data that should call to a sense of reality: the crimes committed by foreign minors in Italy were 17,000. Minors in Italy are a minority of that minority of the population resident in Italy that is not an Italian citizen. Yet it is 17,000 crimes, including 3,500 crimes against the person and 32 voluntary murders. I have heard the beautiful expression several times in the best interest of the unaccompanied minor. Very well, these 32 people killed by these unaccompanied minors were precisely excluded, because it was thought exclusively of the interest of the unaccompanied minor. I remember that they are 32 people killed by these minors, accompanied or unaccompanied. Then there are 54 other attempted voluntary murders. Here you can probably see the problem of young age: not all murders succeed, especially when perhaps the experience is still scarce, but you can remedy it. In addition, there are 1,560 voluntary personal injuries; note that these are not the crimes committed by foreign minors, but are the crimes of which the identity of the offender has been established. And we know that the crimes of which identity is established are a small minority of those who are denounced. So these are exactly the cases where they got caught in the act. Since the crimes of which the author is identified are only a fraction of the total of the crimes, these figures are likely to be multiplied. Let us hope, at least, as far as the murders are concerned, that they will be multiplied by a little. These are data from the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice, they are not inventions, they are not propaganda, they are not fake news and they are not hoaxes; they are official data. And we are talking about helpless children, just as they are treated by helpless children, or rather some of them naturally, because there are so many of these children who really deserve every care and every welcome. We said there were 32 voluntary murders, 54 attempted murders, 1,560 voluntary personal injuries, 10,000 crimes against property and public safety. Plus, there were 268 sexual assaults. I repeat: 268 sexual violence of which the author was identified and the author was an unaccompanied alien minor. Doesn't the rights of those women, and also of some men, usually very young, matter? The exclusive interest is that of these gentlemen who, at any age, claim to be seventeen years old, so much so that they are 53 percent of the children? Who cares about those others? In addition, there have also been 47 stalking offences, which is certainly much less serious than sexual violence, but we know what consequences it may have. I find this particularly impressive, because stalking indicates a repetition of hostile acts against people, usually women; this is something that goes beyond the passing drive. Even there have been 1,801 crimes of minors committed in the reception centres, i.e. where they are directly controlled by persons whom the State is preparing to comply with the law, as well as to do the necessary interventions. Then, in the face of this data we are preparing to approve a bill (the House has already done so) which is totally unbalanced on the one hand. This has been very well said by some of my previous colleagues: it is all done in the exclusive protection of these people. First problem: age. As I said, it is very convenient to declare yourself seventeen, even when you are many years older. In this bill, there is no mention of anyone who is responsible for questioning the age of a gentleman who may even have the appearance of my age. It doesn't say anywhere. As a result, it is very difficult for anyone to take responsibility for it, to face this grain and to pass itself as a xenophobic or for who knows what other things. So no one will question age. If you may have too many wrinkles and a little too much beard, you will say that it is a phenomenon of early aging or a rare disease and that you need special care. There is no limit to being able to declare yourself an unaccompanied minor and have all the benefits expected, as some exclusive clubs say that ask you for a large amount to join. This is a fundamental fact. There are tests that can reach a very precise approximation, not at all invasive because they consist of an X-ray of the wrist, which can be of great help to ascertain the age. In the text, however, there is no guarantee that these tests will also be carried out because the money is not there; there are no tests, but then they will have to be found in order to maintain these people, with the special protection due to their young age. There is no limit to what can be done, no one is responsible, there is no one to protect the interest of the State, which is certainly also to not take responsibility for people whose first act when they arrive in our country is to declare the false for the purpose of cheating the State. I'd say it doesn't seem like the best way to start integration. Then there are paradoxical aspects. The law is made in order to save the child, that child who was drowning in the water and was starving; everything is done in this perspective. The sense of reality, however, says that there are not only those; first of all it is enough to see the boats that usually have on board seventeen years old big and big that have very little the air of having suffered hunger and, even less, they have it when they arrive in the centres of first welcome. The measure states that under no circumstances may an unaccompanied minor be rejected at the border. Let us then take the case of a school trip from a non-EU country where one of the children has lost his passport; one must take him to the first hospitality center, one cannot tell him to return to his parents, to take the first plane and to return, for example, to New York. No, you have to take him and take him to the reception center. It's crazy stuff. An ideological law that does not take account of reality. How do you do that? The presence of the cultural mediator is also mandatory. But what cultural mediator is needed, again, I take the example of the American boy who comes to Italy, maybe grandson of Italians who speaks as much Italian as we do or who, however, should find someone who speaks English? Do you need the cultural mediator? We know that this increases the business turnover of the reception business, but some limits should be set, perhaps by inserting the diction: where it is necessary to do so. The curious thing is that, as often happens when you have no sense of reality, it is that a kind of schizophrenia occurs because, for one verse you assume that they are all children that are starving if you do not get breast milk, for another you say that it is mandatory to talk with the psychologist, the cultural mediator. If you really find the baby, do you have to do the interview with the cultural mediator and the interpreter mandatory? Common sense should first be put into the law, because asking for it later is a problem because it means that every unnecessary passage that is devised in these classrooms involves - at best - an additional form that must then be filled out by those who should instead work and not fill out forms, with costs and at the expense of the service that is provided. Just today an important newspaper has published the news that some non-governmental organizations collaborate with the hullists to bring people, adults and minors, to Italy. I had asked a question two weeks ago, but it didn't get on the pages of the papers and it didn't even get a response from the government. I conclude by saying that our country has all the problems that we know; as Senator Rizzotti said well, there are Italian children who are in poverty, whose family has difficulty and fear to turn to social services because there are many cases where when the family is poor, social services "rape" children by appealing to the notorious article 403 of the civil code. There is therefore an excellent proposal for an amendment which, however, is never examined because these things need to be examined with priority. Well, in this situation we welcome and encourage the arrival of children, who cost 2,200 euros per month: I save you the detail, because it is easily calculated. Do we have any idea how many Italian families could be helped with this amount and how many hundreds of children - instead of charging 2,000, 3,000 or 4,000 euros to boatboats to get them on the boat, until the taxi service arrives to bring them to Italy - with the amount that one of these people maintains could be helped in Africa and really saved from diseases and hunger? It would be a real rescue and not a fake rescue like what we're talking about. Well, in the face of this situation, I propose to return to the sense of reality and to consider things as they are, because Italians, even if they are uninformed and often uninformed, understand much more than those who perhaps write these things. [[Senator Caliendo's applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u49	She is registered to speak Senator Mattesini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u50	Madam President, I would like to stress that the Italian Parliament - given that this is a draft law of parliamentary initiative - is giving a great deal of evidence of civilisation. This is a proposal for a law which bears the first signature of Mr Zampa and which has been signed by many political forces in the original text, including Forza Italia: I say this to Mr Malan in particular. The second signatory is Mr Carfagna. They therefore agree with themselves. I would therefore like to thank Mr Carfagna for the attention and sharing of this bill. I want to point out that this measure is important because we are finally recognising the rights of unaccompanied foreign minors who, among all, are the most vulnerable and we do so by outlining a national system of reception and protection. It is a system that harmonises legislation on the protection of minors and immigration, thus giving rise to a single and comprehensive text which fully transposes the fundamental principles of the UN Convention on the Rights of Children and Adolescence. When it comes to the superior right of the child, one does not quote a phrase at random, but it is a fundamental element. It therefore stigmatizes those who in a silly and banal way treat this as if it were one of the many elements and does not consider it instead the fundamental element, which establishes the subjectivity of minors and their fundamental right. The bill under consideration, therefore, intervenes on the fundamental aspects of the life of migrant minors, who arrive alone in Italy. With this measure we define a stable system of reception, with certain rules, aimed at guaranteeing equal conditions of access to all persons of less age and with it we will also produce an optimization in the use of public resources, since we are giving life to a system. In fact, it is well known to those who talk about public resources - and this is right - that uncontrolled expenditure can also grow in the emergency stages and not in the structuring of a system. Instead, with a structured system we will also control spending and give greater efficiency and better reception. I say this very clearly: it is essential that we all consider, as does the draft law under consideration, that minors who arrive in Italy, even before migrants and refugees, are minors and as such must be taken care of and protected, also within security policies: I will return to this subject later. That is the first organic law in this area, not only in Italy, but also in Europe, so I hope and hope that the Italian example will be followed as soon as possible by the other European countries, also in application of the Dublin legislation, which I remember does not concern minors. I say this very clearly to colleagues from other parties: give a hand to the Government and, on the question of the application of Dublin legislation, which creates so many difficulties, but which does not apply to minors, help us to ensure that Europe does not raise walls. In fact, many minors arrive in Italy, but they only ask to pass through it, to reach their family or friends who are in other countries. I remember these figures: more than 21,000 minors - teenagers, but also infants and children - arrived alone in Italy in 2016. In 2011 the survey was carried out by the Bicameral Committee for Childhood and Adolescence, of which, as has been said before, many colleagues and colleagues who intervened, but never came. The Parliamentary Committee on Childhood and Adolescence - I say this quite clearly - basically works thanks to the presence of the Members of the House and Senate of the Democratic Party, because without us his sessions should often be deserted. [[Applause from the PD Group]] It is therefore up to everyone not only to tell, but also to give consistency with their work and their presence. In 2011 (only six years ago), when the Parliamentary Committee for Childhood and Adolescence was launched the cognitive investigation from which began the path that led us to the present bill, the unaccompanied foreign minors were 3,500, today there are 26,000. It is therefore in the distance between these two numbers (3,500 and 26,000) that is the signal of the trend of world migration: in fact, the share of minors in migration is progressively increasing and at the same time, as their number grows, their age declines. All the readings tell us just that: Percentually and progressively the age gets lower and lower. They are children who have faced often dramatic journeys, without parents or other adult reference figures, or who have remained alone during the tragic journey, and once they have arrived in Europe, as I said before, they are the most vulnerable, easily preyed on circuits of exploitation and violence. The fact is that in our era of migration there is a young humanity, we could say maiden, who tests the foundations of our civilization. In fact, addressing all of us, even those who trivialized the numbers, thinking that minors come only because there is the Navy that welcomes everyone, I remember that beyond the Italian data according to UNICEF in the world there are 50 million minors migrant refugees. It is a huge number on which we should start to reckon. It is no coincidence that Pope Francis on the World Day of Migrants and Refugees reminded us that among migrants the children constitute the most vulnerable group; he also stressed (again he, but we must also put it in our head) that it is no longer an emergency, but an epochal fact, determined above all by the unacceptable level of inequality that afflicts the world and which has specific responsibilities: war, models of unsustainable development and terrorism itself. Pope Francis also spoke of climate refugees and I fully agree with this observation which calls for politics, institutions and therefore all of us to change the same concept of economic immigration, which I have also heard used in a trivial way, because it is a concept that will also have to be expanded to find new strategies for intervention, to keep people in the territories in which they were born. The stories of these children have entered our homes and are now part of our everyday life. Their photos, their events raided the pages of newspapers and televisions and I believe that you can't see those little bodies of children on the shore of the sea, you can't see children of seven or eight years coming down from those boats, from those places too often of death, holding the little brother or sister smaller than two or three years; you can't see this and remain indifferent. This requires an answer, not only in terms of strong emotions that are consumed quickly, but also in terms of precise choices and solutions. In this sense the present bill gives a long-awaited response. I repeat that these children have journeys that have sometimes lasted years; they arrive in Italy often after having experienced violence of all kinds and sometimes overwhelmed by travel debts to be returned and under these conditions can be easy prey of the circuits of illegality, especially if it is not activated since their arrival (the bill under consideration does so) a coordinated network of protection and support and therefore also of legality and safety. I would also like to say very clearly to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement who say that it is a bill without funding, that for example Article 16 is important because it allocates significant resources for legal assistance to these children. This is very important because these young people, these girls and these children arrive in Italy, being able to be prey to criminal systems; it is, therefore, a signal of great importance because instead they go to finance activities such as legal assistance. I would also like to add that Article 3 lays down a very important principle, namely the prohibition of refusal to enter the border of unaccompanied minors, unless family reunification is in their best interests. Article 5 is added to Article 3, which is very important and very detailed. Among other things, with regard to the assessment of the minor age, I thank, even before the adoption of this bill, the work done by the Under-Secretary of State, Mr Manzione, together with the Commission, for updating the possibilities for detecting the age of a minor not only by measuring the wrist. This is absolutely important. Among other things, the whole path of Article 5 until you get to routes that can provide together with the reception also important evaluations regarding the return to your territory are absolutely fundamental tools. Speaking of resources, together with Article 16, I would like to stress Article 17, which concerns trafficking. We know that the latter involves too many girls, too many young girls, but also so many women. I also address my colleagues in the bicameral committee for childhood and adolescence, and in this case specifically to those of the 5 Star Movement, because I shared with Senator Bertorotta the final report of the cognitive survey on child prostitution, in which terrifying data emerged concerning mainly Nigerian girls and teenagers, used by drug dealers to transport cocaine into their vagina. And we know how important this is. It is true that we do not allocate resources, but here too we must stop thinking about watertight compartments, because I remember that this year's law of stability has also increased the resources for equal opportunities, including those for trafficking. So agree on your brains, rather than thinking by compartmentalization. This is a fundamental point, because trafficking in human beings (in this case children and girls) is an aberrant thing, which we must all absolutely oppose by trying to make known the possibilities that so far there are and working together to achieve further and important objectives on this front. With this law we certainly respond to the humanitarian needs and also to our consciences, but we also have the ambition to give Italy a stable and secure system of protection and to support the work of associations and NGOs, without which we would probably be even more in difficulty. Above all, we want to help, and we will help, our mayors, all the mayors, those who have to manage the problem of reception in their territory. And we will finally offer them tools and resources for the reception itself, because, until today, if a minor lands in any place his presence weighs on that territory, in all respects, and, therefore, on the Municipality. It has happened, it has happened, but it will no longer happen so that the budgets of the municipalities are put in serious difficulty. With this measure, however, unaccompanied minors will be in charge of the SPRAR, the System of protection for asylum seekers, refugees and unaccompanied foreign minors. The choice of using the SPRAR is excellent, because first of all we must make it work (and this is a good policy) what is there and make use of what is already built. In fact, it is necessary to be organic, to compose the system and, at the same time, the choice to aim for widespread reception, based on family reunions, strengthening the foster care and voluntary protection. This should always be the path of acceptance, a road of cooperation, an institutional and social alliance that - I am sure - will give important results if it is implemented quickly in terms of system integration and efficiency and therefore quickly approved also in the House. To welcome, protect and invest in citizenship, i.e. rights and duties, is to invest in security and peaceful coexistence. In fact, in drawing up this bill an important balance has been sought, a harmony in the sphere of rights, first of all the human and civil rights of children, but together with the right of security of cities and that of transparency and legality. Also because, we believe that holding together rights and security is the best way to share rights and duties, to achieve full social cohesion and legality. As Cardinal Martini said, those who are orphans of rights will hardly be children of the house of duties. And with the approval and application of this law, the needs of the people and the interests of the country can finally be found. This measure is important because it intervenes on all aspects of the life of migrant minors who arrive alone in Italy. It intervenes on all the fundamental dowels for a good reception and integration: from the procedure to ascertain the minor age to the standards for the reception, from the promotion of family care to the figure of the guardian, from the health care to the access to education. Here too, I would like to point out that today it is not that these children who arrive do not have assistance, but have health care activated from time to time, depending on the situation, in part by the Ministry of the Interior and in part by the Ministry of Health. They enter into the unique system, automatic, of the relationship with the health service and even here there are no resources. I recall that this Government has increased the National Social Policy Fund by about two billion; therefore, the resources are not unchanged: we have increased the fund with important resources also to give real, continuous and permanent assistance to foreign children. A fundamental point of the measure is given by the times and the path, because the procedure to establish the minor age, and therefore the identification, must take place within thirty days, a short time that will also test the organization; an important time to prevent exactly what other colleagues, starting from Senator Malan, said. The shorter the stay in the first reception center, the less children will be prey to criminal organizations or other. The measure saw the activation of a kind of national database-data, important to govern the sending of minors to the reception facilities located in all the regions of the territory, based on the specific needs of the children themselves, which will be identified through the institution of what is called social folder, where the history of the minor is traced, which will help the operators in contact with the same minor to better know him and to identify the solution of long period better for him. The more we take care of these people, the more they will learn to love and respect our country. Another absolutely important element is the right to education and health, which I am not going to go back to, while I am going to focus on the right to listening and legal assistance in administrative and judicial proceedings involving children. In this respect, I repeat once again the importance of the resources that give access to legal assistance. It is necessary to remember that in 2016 alone about 6,000 minors have disappeared: some of them have certainly disappeared in order to be able to reunite with family members resident in other countries, but another substantial part has paid for the absence of a well-organized system, in which children can lose themselves in nothingness, or rather fall into the hands of criminal associations, in the black work and - apparently - also in the trade of organs for transplants. In this case too, a system that provides for very short periods of time in the first reception is essential. I remember, in fact, that to date, unfortunately, as the system is not structured, it is precisely at this stage that minors disappear, which is why determining such a short temporality, together with a path that allows to monitor, follow the life of the minor who arrives, will be an element of safety and legality. We remember that the best interest of the child is guaranteed also through the attention to family reunions. The draft law also refers to family reunifications, activated through special family investigations as well as the communication of the results of the investigation to both the minor and the temporary guardian. So, as I have already said, since children are not covered by the Dublin Treaty, it is important, as this law provides, to accompany them to their destination, without forcing the children, desperate, perhaps linked to the axis of a tir, to abandon our country in search of their families. Highly important is the transfer of competence for return assisted to the court of minors and no longer entrusted to the Directorate-General for Immigration and Integration Policies of the Ministry of Labour. The court, three months after the entry into force of the law, will have to establish an important list of voluntary guardians. The bill also promotes the development of family care as a priority way of welcoming structures: even in this case there are no additional resources, but family care today has in social policies important resources on which to invest. I would like to highlight in particular Article 14 of the measure, which includes measures to accompany older people and long-term integration measures, which establish that, when an unaccompanied foreign minor, to the attainment of the greater age, although having undertaken a path of social integration, needs prolonged support aimed at the success of this path aimed at autonomy, the court of minors can arrange the continuation of the reception at one of the structures referred to in Article 13 and the custody of social services no later than, however, the completion of the twenty-first year of age. See that this is an important point, because this helps not only the individual person in his project, since the person who arrives here is not just looking for a plate of pasta, a soup or a bed, but has his own life plan. This project must be respected and, in doing so, even through Article 14, we build a sense of belonging to our community. You build a bridge, you help and you support a way of welcoming, which does not assist helplessly to the abandonment or disaffection that could be born in these children towards our country or Europe. And we know how much the sense of belonging to a community that welcomes us is a relevant fact and is the main antidote to terrorism and to those attitudes contra legem, whose numbers, not quite correct, have been reported to us before. In fact, welcoming can not only mean guaranteeing a place to stay, but must mean shared growth and knowledge, and the network in the territory must give the concrete possibility to pursue a project of community growth that welcomes. The other important point is the specific programmes for children victims of trafficking and the special discipline of residence permits, as well as the dedicated structures of first reception that represent not only a choice of civilization, but also a strong organizational signal, which will allow - I insist - to take ground from crime and unscrupulous organizations. I conclude, apart from all rhetoric, by saying that those traversed by sea or by land speak of an enormous courage and a great effort enclosed in small bodies: young bodies, exhausted teenagers who may denounce a higher age, because they are forced to do this by corporals who make prostitutes of them; children who have seen drown people, traumatized young people who do not even know that there can be a life without brutality (we have the task instead of creating for them a normal condition of life), but they also narrate of potentiality, hope, desire to make it and succeed. Then it also depends on us whether or not we choose to give back to each child the right to be simply a child. Other walls are erected, but after all they will pay and we will pay the price of the tragedy. Welcoming and accompanying these children does not take away the bread to our suburbs and soliciting the conflicts between the poor produces only damage and regression. I say this because when you contrast and contradict Italian children in difficulty (these 3 million children who are below the poverty line) these children are also seriously harmed by our intelligence. Above all, there is serious damage in not recognizing very important elements such as the choices made by this Government: I am thinking of the Fund for the fight against child education poverty and the draft law delegation for the fight against poverty that we will have to incardinate in these days. Then there is an important article, the last of the law, that on decentralized cooperation, because I stressed the need not only to welcome, but also to work in these countries. Article 20 reads as follows: Italy shall promote closer international cooperation, in particular through the instrument of bilateral agreements and the financing of development cooperation programmes in the countries of origin. I want to say this very clearly: this Government, with the last law of stability and with this year's law, has reactivated (this year for 200 million) the fund for international cooperation, a fund completely reset by the Berlusconi government. We clearly want to welcome and, at the same time, collaborate with the countries from which minors come, because no one escapes from their own country because it suits us: escape to have a chance of life and keep these two activities together is particularly important. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Mattesini. MATTESINI (PD). I also remember, last, that under the Prodi government, with Napolitano then Minister of the Interior and Livia Turco Minister for Social Solidarity, a bilateral agreement was approved with Albania that blocked what was in those years a real exodus. We have done so, we will do so, and I hope that the House will approve this measure quickly. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u51	The general debate is closed. Appreciate the circumstances, postpone the continuation of the discussion of the drafts of law in title to other session.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u54	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Madam President (President Calderoli was afraid of my speech), ladies and gentlemen, I rise to speak on a matter of yesterday that caused a stir, because Fabrizio D'Alba, Director-General of San Camillo, took on two non-objective gynecologists, considering the need to respond to a user's right, guaranteed by the Health Service, to receive a certain type of assistance. He considered it appropriate that these two doctors should be employed in order to meet the requirement laid down in Law No 194 of 1978. This law is thirty-nine years old and in Italy we have not yet been able to respond organically, throughout the territory, to the needs that this law meets and warned by some women. When a woman undergoes voluntary termination of pregnancy (IVG), she never does so lightly. The psychic, physical, technical, administrative and health trail to cross is not easy at all. I tell you this from a person who knows the route from a professional point of view (I am an operating room nurse and I also worked in the operating rooms of gynecology) and personal experience. Senator Maurizio Romani and I (at the time we were still in the 5 Star Movement Group, while today we are part of the Italian component of the values of the Mixed Group) presented the bill No. 923, at the first signature of the colleague (he is a doctor, while I nurse), for a change of prerogatives within Law No. 194. It is right that conscientious objection exists, but service must be guaranteed. With reference to those who work in the public sphere (I am thinking of the categories of gynecologists, anesthetists and nurses), within the operating units it may be expected that the percentage of objectors does not exceed 30 percent of the total, so as to guarantee the service. In Italy the percentage of gynecologists objectors of consciousness is very high: at the Centre-North is around 70 percent, to get to be very high in the South (from 85 to 90 percent). The percentage of anaesthetists also varies, being equal to 50 percent at the Centre-North and 75 percent at the South. As for the nursing class, the percentage is 50 percent in the Centre-North (Tuscany is very virtuous because it has only 27 percent of objectors), while in the South it oscillates around 75 percent. So, these are very high numbers. Anesthesiologists and nurses may decide to work elsewhere. Those who object and do not want to do certain types of practices or participate in surgeries where there is a termination of pregnancy may be targeted in the public sphere to other operating units. The hospitals are large and not only the gynecology department exists. Those belonging to these categories can therefore be easily placed by other parties. The question remains open for the gynecologist, who has a specialization in this sense and, therefore, can only be included in those areas. I believe it is correct that the percentages are respected in order to offer an adequate service according to what is laid down by law and taking into account the fact that our country is secular. I do not know how constitutional the recruitment of the director-general of the San Camillo Forlanini hospital company is. The point is that, however, one must respond to a requirement enshrined in the Constitution where, alongside conscientious objection, the right to care is also enshrined. Women have the right to be treated correctly, because otherwise we return (in fact already there are) to the practice of illegal abortion with mothers, thus putting at great risk the lives of women. I believe that this is not correct in a state that wants to protect people and health and that wants to offer care in the most appropriate and correct way possible and in compliance with the law. I call on you to reflect on what happened yesterday and on the need to predict, within the departments, a fair percentage of conscientious objectors, thus guaranteeing equal service throughout the national territory and taking citizens away from journeys of hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u57	GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Madam President, a few days ago the good news had arrived, at least for me, that General Spano, commander of the Sassari Brigade at the time of the peace mission in Iraq, was acquitted of all charges of imprudence and imprudence relating to the massacre of Nassiriya. Unfortunately, eight days later, bad news came. Since the civil parties have appealed in cassation, the matter has been postponed on appeal and General Spano has been sentenced to pay 80,000 euros of attorney's fees, in addition to the amount - will assess the court of appeal how many millions of euros - to compensate the relatives of the victims of Nassiriya. I remember that the relatives of these victims have already been compensated by the State, being absolutely necessary and right that they have a refreshment. The problem is that General Spano was acquitted criminally ten days ago, as it proved that he was not guilty of malpractice or negligence. However, the judges of the Supreme Court objected that he should have placed a tank at the beginning of the base. However, General Spano, who was not in charge of the base (which was the Carabinieri), had arrived in Iraq for just twenty days and had no tanks. In fact, by political choice, in peace missions, tanks had not been supplied and will only arrive a year later. He objected that the genius would have to intervene to strengthen the base, but he had only one department of the genius and had to use it in two advanced bases. In short, the civil judges have made a disanimation of the situation creating, as happened for Ustica, a situation in which the Criminal Court has established that the aerial battle has never been, the missile is a fantasy science fiction and has acquitted everyone while the Civil Cassation has written that it was probably a missile and we have to pay 300 million euros of compensation. Again, two organs of the state, civil and criminal, have said two things totally conflicting and in addition, for this reason I urge the Minister's response, have removed the operational capacity to the Armed Forces because with this precedent any commander who does not end up at the Martial Court, that is, responds of military omission, is not condemned criminally, but is called to respond personally of an assessment of opportunity on the field, which, evidently, becomes a tautology because whenever there is a victim, a dead in action, someone will wonder what responsibility the commander has for not having prevented the happened. It is clear that any officer on a foreign mission today, and on this I have been confronted with the leaders of the Armed Forces under oath at the Military Academy a few days ago, will be immensely concerned about something that does not happen anywhere else in the world. I therefore believe that the Minister, in the face of something so striking - General Spano is still an active officer - must find an answer first of all to know who pays because the military on mission cannot pay for political choices made by the Government, especially when it keeps the missions in a situation where it does not provide war material capable of responding to certain provocations and attacks. I ask that the Minister respond in some way. I have already put forward an interrogation to that effect. I ask you to calm the Armed Forces and give a response to public opinion and I ask that this incredible discrasia be finally faced between the judgments of the Criminal Court and those of the Civil Cassation because we are ridiculed in front of the whole world when, in the face of the same fact, someone denies that it has ever happened, after years and years of trial, and the Civil Cassation, instead, on the basis of the assumption of a fact never happened, condemns perhaps the State to pay hundreds of millions of euros.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u60	BERGER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Madam President, I would have preferred to speak on 25 February, on the 25th anniversary of the genocide in Khojaly, and I would like to recall in this House how important it is to give a fair assessment of the facts, in order to raise awareness of the public opinion of the Italian community and to avoid such crimes in the future. Unfortunately, there are conflicts that, despite the gravity and cruelty with which they are perpetrated, remain in the dark pages of history and are forgotten by the general public. This also happens with regard to this genocide, which happened in Azerbaijan. On the night of 25-26 February 1992, the town of Khojaly, in the newly independent state of Azerbaijan, was the scene of one of the most serious and dramatic events of the conflict for Nagorno-Karabakh, between Armenia and Azerbaijan. On the evening of February 25, 1992, the Armenian army, with the collaboration of the Russian troops, began the attack on the city. The intention was to carry out a massacre and eliminate the population living in the area: a real genocide committed against the helpless and fleeing Azerbaijani population. Many bodies of men, women and children were mutilated. Khojaly was sacked and then razed to the ground. The official report of the victims of the massacre includes 613 people, including 106 women, 83 children and 70 elderly; 56 people were killed with particular cruelty. I feel obliged today to appeal to all of us not to forget. I also consider it important to address an appeal to the international community in order to take a clear position to force Armenia to abandon its negative position on the genocide of Khojaly and military aggression against Azerbaijan. This is a necessary step for human rights and the peace of the territory and a step within the framework of our responsibility as well.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u63	RUTA (PD). Madam President, I would like to say briefly that I have asked the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Economic Development for Question 3-03520, to stress the need to know in a thorough way how many additional extraordinary resources he intends to commit to active policies for workers in the complex crisis area recognised by the Molise Region and for the programme agreement ex-Law No 134 of 2012 for employees GAM, former Arena. Specifically, it is necessary for the Government to give a response before 8 March - for this reason I speak today - in order to know for each measure what are the actual resources prepared and what are the instruments of active labour policies so that the workers can, together with the unions and the social partners, sign the agreement that previews the revival of the poultry supply chain. I remember that Arena was the third Italian poultry pole after AIA and Amadori, and so that the structure that today has been, at least for the acquisition of the goods, acquired by a company related to the Amadori group, resumes momentum, and therefore to reactivate the entire supply chain, it is necessary that there is the agreement signed before March 8. Before that date, therefore, the Government must give an answer to the question I put this morning, so that the social partners can sign the agreement after knowing exactly what the terms are for workers of all the modular instruments that can be put in place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-02-23-LEG17-Senato-sed-769.ana.u64	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will come back to meet in public today, at 4 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 13.25 a.m.
