ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 11:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Amati, secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting on 21 June.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u4	TOSATO (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. and resumed at 11.26 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u6	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u9	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, let us renew the request for a quorum check.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u10	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate is not a quorum. I therefore suspend our work. (The sitting was suspended at 11.27 a.m. and resumed at 11.47 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u11	We shall now proceed to the vote on the Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u14	CROSIUM (LN-Aut). Mr President, let us renew the request for a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u15	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u16	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u17	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation begins (11:48 hours).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u18	I inform you that Parliament is convened at 2 p.m. on Thursday 29 June for the vote on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court. The honourable senators will vote first. Therefore, the scheduled afternoon session of the inspection union will not take place.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u19	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00705 (text 2), tabled by Senator Malan and other senators, on Taiwan's participation in international organisations. I call Senator Malan to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, Taiwan is the twenty-second economy of the world, it is the eighteenth partner of the European Union for interchange, it has 24 million inhabitants and it is the first partner of the People's Republic of China for investments. Contrary to what happened until a few years ago, when the connections between the two countries - I remember that they have relationships, even personal and kinship, really intense - took place through flights that made first stop in other States, currently there are hundreds of flights weekly. In this context, understanding the situation that has been outlined, since the 1970s when the People's Republic was recognized as the state that represented the Chinese nation at the United Nations, and compatible with it, we consider it important and necessary that Taiwan be included as much as possible in the international bodies that work in particular for international safety and health and, therefore, in the interests of the community, the international community and the Taiwanese population. In this motion we refer in particular to ICAO, an international body dealing with aviation security, UNFCC, which is a UN agency dealing with climate change and Interpol, of which we all know the role of international police. Therefore, it is good that there are more agreements concerning the three organisations. The ICAO has to do with civil aviation, so it is very important that, with regard to aircraft departing from the People's Republic of China and Taiwan, or from any other country, and crossing the two countries, or taking off in one country to go to another, there is maximum mutual cooperation in order to ensure safety - in this case of passengers - and international cooperation on climate and international police issues. The motion under consideration commits the Government to continue to actively consider, together with the partners of the European Union, compatible with the international agreements already signed, how to allow participation as Taiwan observer in the international contexts I have mentioned, to which the World Health Assembly should be added, in order to improve collective security, international relations and in particular our relations with that country, where moreover many Italians are present for business, study or other reasons. That is why we tabled the motion. Initially a text 1 was presented, which I do not now find among the documents of the Assembly, and then, in agreement with Senator Sangalli, a text 2, which is now to your attention, in which will be contained some small coordination changes that we consider important. This is another reason to have good relations with Taiwan and the People's Republic of China, which has a significant exchange with Taiwan itself. I remember the meeting between President Xi Jinping and the penultimate president of Taiwan, Ma Ying-jeou. Currently, the president is Mrs. Tsai Ing-wen, Taiwan's first woman president. From this point of view, we believe that the commitment that the Government will make is a positive fact.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u21	I declare the debate open. Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u22	Mr President, I will certainly not go into the matter of historical events which, in various ways, have contributed to making Taiwan an island of troubled international relations, especially with mainland China itself. It would be interesting to look into the matter, but this is clearly not the subject of the motion. The fact is that Taiwan has become one of the 22 most important economies in the world; it is the eighteenth partner of the European Union in terms of trade volumes and with Italy it has rather interesting cultural, commercial and industrial relations. The balance on cultural activities is also very positive and the agreements between Taiwanese and Italian universities are no less. The quality and the quantity of democracy that characterizes the island, with elections taking place at every level of public life, are not to be overlooked; moreover, civil, social and trade union rights, as well as religious rights, are absolutely guaranteed. With planning and tenacity Taiwan participates in many activities of various multilateral bodies. In the last period, however, a mechanism was set in motion whereby, in the short space of a few months, Taiwan had to undergo, probably due to irresistible pressure from Beijing, the failure to take part in some activities to which it had already been invited in the past; in particular, Taiwan's exclusion from the World Health Assembly was claimed and obtained by the Chinese Government after eight years of participation, among other things much appreciated both for its scientific contribution and for its effective cooperation. And Beijing's stance has stirred up controversy and protests around the world. With this motion, which we have signed, we have managed to highlight in a positive way also the issue inherent in the World Health Assembly, which we consider one of the most important aspects, as evidenced by some interventions that characterized the North League, in which we have highlighted how prophylaxis, prevention and the fight against diseases, pandemics and viruses are absolutely to be regulated in the relationship with a country that has a continuous interaction in the world from the economic point of view. The commitment of the motion under consideration is precisely to ensure that the Government promotes, in the appropriate seats of the European Union and through all its organs, that the island of Taiwan has a stable and continuous entry into the health and safety fora. We are sure that this branch of Parliament will approve this motion concerning a very interesting country from an economic, cultural and democratic point of view for that geographical area, which will put us in a position to interact freely with a country that makes the economy one of its main activities. This is the subject of the motion and the idea that we at the North League have about it. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u23	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motion that has been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u24	Mr President, pending the rewordings that I think will be proposed, the text that I have received from the Government is in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u27	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, to reply to the Undersecretary, the third last paragraph of the motion, which begins with the words: 'in the context of the matter' and ends with the following: 'China policy', is deleted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u28	Mr President, can we have the text of the reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u29	Text 2 is already available and is being distributed. It is not clear to me whether Senator Sangalli refers to text 1 and its changes or not.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u30	Mr President, I ask for five minutes' suspension to resolve a sensitive issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u31	I would ask you to forward any new text to the Presidency so that it can be distributed. I am suspending the sitting until 12.10 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12:01 p.m. and resumed at 12:10). The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u32	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u34	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, leaving aside the reasons for the laboriousness of these rewordings, which I shall explain in the explanation of vote, with this further rewording - I address the Secretary - it is proposed that the third last paragraph, which goes from the words 'in the context' to the words 'One China policy', should be removed from the text of the motion. As for the last paragraph, the commitment to the Government is maintained, but it is asked to add, among the multilateral bodies mentioned in brackets, the World Health Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u35	I invite the representative of the Government to comment on this further rewording.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u36	Mr President, this reformulation meets the Government's favourable opinion. As an alternative to the initial WHA, you can also use the Italian acronym AMS, referring to the same organization.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u37	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u40	COMPAGNA (FL (Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, I would like to make up for lost time by expressing our Group's strong vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u43	Arrigoni (LN-Aut). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the motion tabled in December 2016 has been reworded, with a text 2, although further reworded in a text 3, excluding whole parts in the premises and rewording the device. It is very likely that there was some inspiration who advised the Government and, in cascade, Senator Sangalli, and we regret that. It should be recognised, for example, that in 2013 Taiwan was invited to attend the 38th ICAO Assembly and that it expected that this invitation would be renewed at the last Assembly, 39th, held in Montreal last September, precisely because of the positive precedent of 2013 and the fact that ICAO's own subjects and competences are technical in nature and directly concern the fate of hundreds of millions of passengers. In contrast to expectations, Taiwan was not invited to the 39th assembly last year. Evidently reasons of a nature completely unrelated to ICAO's purposes and duties have conditioned, in such an invasive way, its functions and responsibilities so closely related to the life and safety of all those who use air transport. Yet it is not irrelevant to point out that 60 million people transit every year from the island's air and port ports. We regret that China continues with this ostracism towards the democratic Taiwan and its 23.5 million inhabitants in the name of the mantra "One China policy." An ostracism that has also been confirmed in recent weeks with the very serious exclusion of Taiwan from the World Health Assembly which took place in Geneva in the last decade of May. China claimed and imposed the exclusion of Taiwan from that Assembly for its own publicly declared political reasons of aversion to the democratically elected Taiwanese Government in 2016. A democracy - I stress - one of the most advanced from the point of view of civil, political, religious and trade union rights. And the political motivation of ostracism against Taiwan is so evident - and therefore unacceptable - because in the last eight years, from 2009 to 2016, Taiwan has always participated as an observer in this WHO decision-making body by making a valid and appreciated health and scientific contribution, since viruses, diseases and epidemics do not stop before national borders or regimes of any political color. It is very serious this political ostracism, but even more serious that the World Health Assembly and the World Health Organization (which this year have perhaps made more news about the scandalous expenses for travel and subsistence of their own officials, including the Director-General) have been involved in these games, since they should be non-political and in their constituent act they decide to operate - today we must say "should" - for the exclusive objectives of the protection and promotion of human health, including through food security, to pursue the welfare of humanity, outside and above all racial, religious, political and economic motivations. Only the stubbornness and responsibility of the Government of Taipei made it possible for the Minister of Health, who had bilateral meetings with his colleagues from 31 countries and with the leaders of 28 international organizations working in the field of health and cooperation, to go to Geneva. For these reasons, as parliamentarians of the North League who signed the motion, we ask the Government to coordinate with the other European Union Executives and to work to ensure that Taiwan - as I stress it, twenty-second economy in the world and eighteenth partner of the European Union in terms of volume of trade - can participate as an observer in the specialized international multilateral bodies in which there is today a foreclosure, such as ICAO, Interpol and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and in particular that it can also actively contribute to the action of the World Health Assembly, also to recover a minimum of reasonableness in the interests not only of the Taiwanese population, but also of the international community. The North League will vote in favour of the motion as reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u46	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, I do not think that the delicate aspect of the relations between Taiwan and the People's Republic of China is missing from anyone, so it is within this delicate balance that this motion goes to be inserted, with respect to which we have appreciated the rewording proposed by the proposers of agreement with the Government. A pragmatic approach is needed, trying to get diplomacy to work that often has a long time, but it allows us to maintain that delicate balance that I believe is necessary in relations between Taiwan and the People's Republic of China. In this perspective, we express as Group 1 - Progressive Democratic Movement our vote in favour of this motion. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u49	MARINELLO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, first of all, I am voting in favour of my Group. The motion is certainly a positive sign, although - this is my point of view - we still do not feel completely satisfied, because we are fundamentally convinced that there are still considerable prejudices and ostracisms towards this important country, among other things, fundamental partners. We are aware of the conditioning that comes from international policies and also from the relations that our country and the European Union rightly have with mainland China, but we are convinced that Taiwan has demonstrated, over long decades, that it is a great country, but not only: it has shown friendship, as well as being a bastion of freedom and democracy and of wanting to maintain, in particular with Italy, a preferential lane from the point of view of economic relations and bilateral relations. This signal is important in any case, so we will vote on the motion firmly and I ask the Presidency to be able to attach the written text of my speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u52	BERTOROTTA (M5S). Mr President, we wonder what happened from December to today to Senator Malan. The motion at his first signature, today under discussion, turns out in fact to be a hole in the water. He probably made it after Trump's statements in early December, when the American President made a phone call to the Taiwanese Premier, leaking his intention to support Taiwan. Instead - alas - President Trump later denied his statements, probably forcing Senator Malan to reformulate this motion, which today has completely changed its meaning. This request to the Government for us does not mean anything, let alone we believe that it can support our national interest in some way, since trade with Taiwan will certainly not be affected by the approval of this motion. At the same time, we do not believe that Parliament should speak on a subject relating to Taiwan's foreign policy and its possible participation in the international bodies mentioned. For this reason, the 5 Star Movement will abstain and hopes that in the future we will avoid discussing motions as useless as this one. It would be good for us to talk a little more about CETA, which will be examined in the Committee on Foreign Affairs today and which will then come to the House, which no newspaper is talking about; citizens are unaware of what this treaty with Canada entails. I also remember that for months the 5 Star Movement has been waiting for the calendarization of a motion on our country's foreign policy, which concerns Afghanistan, Syria and Libya and which in our opinion is certainly more important for the Italians than Taiwan's participation in international bodies. I repeat, therefore, that the 5 Star Movement will abstain. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u55	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I have no doubt tabled a text 1 of the motion, while the one we are discussing today is text 2, which involves amendments to text 1. But the important issue that we raised with text 1 and which remains completely unchanged in text 2 is to ask the Government for a commitment to allow Taiwan's participation in certain multilateral contexts, which I have already mentioned in my first speech. I am referring to civil aviation, the UN climate agency, Interpol and other international bodies, where it is undoubtedly in the interest of the international community and the Taiwanese population to continue to have this cooperation. As far as the parts of the motion that have been changed are concerned, there have been no points in this matter concerning Taiwan, with the obvious aim of reaching such an agreement that it would be possible to approve the motion. With your approval, we will have a commitment from the Government to promote Taiwan's participation in these international bodies. It is certainly not today that the One China policy is approved, ratified or encouraged, the result of decades of work, contacts and pressure from the parties involved. It all originated when the People's Republic of China, which had been excluded from the United Nations until the 1970s, was included on the initiative of the Nixon Presidency of the United States. This was the right thing to do, because leaving the world's most populous state outside the United Nations would really be a contradiction. Of course, a very questionable decision was taken, and this is the reason why I have always been part of the parliamentary friendship group between Italy and Taiwan: to put at the same time outside the United Nations (and not only to give it a lower recognition) the Republic of China, whose territory in fact coincides with the island of Taiwan, plus some small islands close to it; a Government that was in continuity with the power of the Republic having the same name and even the same person to lead it, Chiang Kai-shek. Among other things, it was the country that in the Second World War had the greatest number of fallen in the fight against the powers of the axis, more than any other country, even more than the Soviet Union. It was also the country that fought against the Axis powers for the longest time, beginning its confrontation with Japan, due to the Japanese invasion, long before the beginning of the Second World War. Putting him out completely, without any protection, I think it was an unfortunate choice. Today we are confronted with today's reality which asks us - with the approval of this motion we are going in this direction - to allow the participation of this country, which - I repeat - is the 22nd economy of the world, the 18th trading partner of the European Union, the main trading partner of the People's Republic of China, connected to China with hundreds of flights, whose former President, as President, met Chinese President Xi Jinping. It is therefore asked to give this country at least the support to participate in those international bodies that serve not to the prestige of Taiwan, but to international security, to the protection of people who from all over the world, including the People's Republic of China, go to Taiwan. The international community is asked to allow an important country to participate in the decisions and information exchanged in these bodies.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u58	BELLOT (Misto-Fare!). Mr President, we also vote in favour. The rewordings modify the addresses in a way that we share. We are, therefore, in favour and, as a signatory, I support the relations between Italy and Taiwan in the commercial and cultural fields that have always accompanied us and we would like this to constitute an openness and growth that allows Taiwan to have those relations of democracy that has always shown that it wants to support. We therefore vote in favour of the motion with the rewordings made.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u61	Sangalli (PD). Mr President, when we talk about Taiwan, we remember many aspects of Taiwan in the international economic classification. I refer to two industrial brands: Acer and Asus. They are the largest manufacturers of computer components in the world and we are faced with a country of the highest technological standard that, within a few decades, has passed of being a poor and agricultural country to be first an industrial and manufacturing country and then a country with the highest technological production. Today more than 65% of Taiwan's population, which has a very high average income, is employed in high value-added services. We are talking about an economically important country, although certainly not as important to us as the People's Republic of China, because it is a country whose size, its international role and the stabilisation of international processes obviously have a different weight. We are talking about Taiwan because we are dealing with a story that starts from the history of the second twentieth century. It is a story of revolutions and rupture within the Chinese regime. It is a story that has a bit traced international relations in the United Nations. It was rightly recalled that Formosa, which later became Taiwan, was the representative of the United Nations for the whole of China and was not represented by People's China. It was a story that evolved a lot. I would like to point out, because it is the sensitive point of the motion that Senator Malan, who is the first signatory to the motion, whom I thank for putting this issue on the agenda, that in 1992 Consensus, with the so-called 1992 agreement, what is called the One China Policy is achieved: the recognition of a single China not as a country or as a nation, but as cultural and historical data. On the basis of this agreement, the then Taiwanese President developed an intense relationship with the People's Republic of China. Therefore, from a country threatened by a near-invasion of China, we move to a country that, although not having diplomatic relations except with countries not significant in the international chessboard, apart from Vatican City, has relations maintained essentially between commercial representations that assume the value of diplomatic representations. This led to the arrival on 7 November 2015 in Singapore at the historic meeting between Chinese President Xi Jinping and Ma Ying-jeou, president of Taiwan for many years. I would also like to point out that Taiwan is a democratic country, in which local elections are held, in Parliament and whose President is elected by the people. We are in a situation that must be looked at very carefully in multilateral relations. I am sorry for those who underestimate it, but the position of this country is strategic not only in its relationship with China. We bear in mind that relations with China are strained from the formal point of view, but from the substantive point of view they are very proactive; there are over half a million Chinese living on the Chinese territory, there is a large amount of inhabitants of the People's Republic of China working and operating there, companies have a very strong interchange and China is Taiwan's largest trading partner. We are at a delicate point of the military chessboard, as well as of international politics and for this reason the position must be carefully looked at. To tell the truth - and I do not find here any hints of controversy with Senator Malan - in the various positions taken by the United States of America, when President Trump considered meeting the President of Taiwan as the first gesture and made the second gesture by hosting the President of the People's Republic of China in Washington, he wanted to say, even with his "creative" way, that foreign policy is not done exactly as internal politics is done. Foreign policy is made up of signals, agreements, treaties, the construction of a assembly, knowing strategically what the threats can be in the medium and long term. I am sorry that when you leave the border of your country the whole world becomes mysterious, but sometimes you also need to document yourself on this part of the world and on the potential risks that there might be in the absence of a process of relaxation and agreement. We will therefore vote in favour of the motion that we have unitedly participated in writing; we will vote with the idea that we are within the European Union's policies towards Taiwan. We therefore recognise the value of the 1992 One China Policy agreement between the two Cines. However, we would also like to ensure that this agreement, as it has produced significant trade effects between the two countries, can have significant political effects in the entry of Taiwan fully into the various international fora and bodies in which it is entitled to be represented not against China, but within that culture of rapprochement between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan. For this reason, the vote of the Democratic Party Group will be in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u62	We shall therefore proceed to the vote. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic means. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 705 (text 3), tabled by Senator Malan and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u65	Mr Bencini (Misto-Idv). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this speech is in the wake of others already made by me, as well as by many other Members. In fact, in the spotlight, from time to time, were the industrial policies of large groups and the employment prospects of the workers of the sites affected by outsourcing operations and therefore numerous acts of inspection union, and not, were presented in order to know the feasibility and the concreteness of the operations established by the various companies involved. Today I bring to the attention the intentions of the giant of the telecommunications Wind Tre so as mentioned by the unions during the table called for the presentation of the industrial plan of the new company risen as a result of the known operations of fusion Wind Tre. At stake is the customer care ex H3G operating in the offices of Palermo, Rome, Cagliari and Genoa. Therefore, first of all, the strong concerns about the future of the workers involved are precisely the safeguarding of jobs. The press learns that the expected responses have not yet been received for several months, so much so as to bring the national secretariats of various unions such as FISTel-CISL, SLC-CGIL and Uilcom-UIL, with a national statement of May 22 last, to reaffirm the need to have more clarity on the holding of the overall business perimeter, as well as to fear a package of hours of strike together with initiatives of protest and media visibility. The same concerns about the maintenance of the company's employment levels, and therefore the risk that the merger will be entirely dumped on the workers, have also been brought to light by the national secretariat UGL Telecommunications. The strong remora originate from the decision of Wind Tre SpA to proceed to the outsourcing of the customer care service or the service carried out by the contact center ex H3G, where the employed workers amount to approximately 910, divided in the four offices of Palermo, Rome, Cagliari and Genoa. Moreover, no information was received, even marginal and unofficial, about the name of the company to which the outsourcing service will be entrusted. In this respect, therefore, I have the same concerns as those of the trade unions; experience in similar or similar cases has shown that such operations have proved to be bankrupt. Obviously in the short term there is no risk, since in case of transfer of branch of company the employees ferry, with their contract of employment, to the company that acquires. However, let us not forget what happened last year with the Almaviva Group, as well as in other cases of outsourcing. I conclude by recalling that next Thursday, 29 June, at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, a political table is planned with the hope that an industrial plan will be presented at this meeting that really invests in human capital and not just a financial operation. So, of course, I hope that there is a chance of saving jobs in the balance.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u68	Campanella (Art.1-MDP). Mr President, I rise to tell colleagues about a factory situation of the 1800s. Often people tend to say that there are no more workers and that the episodes told in films like "Modern Times" no longer happen. That's not true. We are at Electrolux in Susegana, in the province of Treviso. There we still work with the roller shutter assembly chains, with the rhythm tied. For years, trade union delegates have been contesting too intense working patterns. It is not a fantasy: in that plant more than 181 cases of occupational disease related to repetitive movements in 700 work units have been recognized by INAIL. So, we're talking about incredible morbidity levels. Electrolux's FIOM delegate, Augustin Bruno Breda, has become an expert on machining time calculations. He, however, has a problem. He has a family member who is not self-sufficient and therefore enjoys the permissions of Law No 104 of 1992. Now, in the run-up to the RSU elections and in the run-up to work, Electrolux has him followed by a detective and discovers that instead of spending all the time next to the sick, Bruno also goes shopping to the post office to collect his pension. That's why he disputes the misuse of Law 104 and dismisses him. But are we in the 21st century or the 1800s? I give you this episode as an element of reflection. Consider then that Breda enjoys all the esteem of her colleagues, who in about twenty days have made twenty-seven hours of strike. And anyone who knows how much a metal worker earns realizes what twenty-seven hours of strike means to these workers, who strike to defend the one who represented them and who was fired. I am presenting a question, in which I ask the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Health what they intend to do: for this specific situation in Breda, but also for the level of occupational diseases in that plant: 181 out of 700 people are an unacceptable level of incidence in a society that once called itself Western and evolved. This I wanted to represent to you, so that you know that in Italy we have this kind of reality, which is still absolutely existing and is made of real suffering and because compared to this we assume a clear position to prevent people outside think that we are absolutely detached from these realities and from this level of real life.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-06-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-845.ana.u69	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report. I remember that the Senate will return to meet in public today, at 4.30 p.m., with the agenda already printed and distributed. The sitting was closed at 12.44 p.m.
