ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Pegorer, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u2	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u3	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u4	DIVINE (LN-Aut). Mr President, I would like to ask for the vote on the Minutes, subject to a quorum check. Verification of quorum
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u5	I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators, by electronic procedure. (The request is supported). I therefore call on the senators to make their presence known by electronic means. (Follows the quorum check.) The Senate has a quorum. Resumption of the debate on the Minutes I put the Minutes to the vote. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u6	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u7	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1 of the Regulation (9.35 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, at the opening of the afternoon sitting on Wednesday 17 May, which will begin at 3 p.m., the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation will make a statement on the situation in Venezuela. Parliamentary groups will be able to speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on the resolution adopted by the 10th Permanent commission, pursuant to article 50, paragraph 2, of the Regulation, at the conclusion of the examination of the deal assigned on the results of the main companies directly or indirectly participated by the State, with particular reference to the areas of interest of the Commission, both from the sectoral point of view, and from the point of view of competition (Doc. XXIV, No 73). The report has already been printed and distributed. He asked to speak, to supplement the written report, Senator Cucchetti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution that the Industry Commission is proposing to the Senate today concerns the way in which the State exercises its role as shareholder in the large companies of which it has legal or de facto control. It complements the previous resolution, again on the same subject, of three years ago. This resolution, voted unanimously by the Commission with the favourable opinion of the Government, concluded a deal assigned during which the results of ENI, Enel, Leonardo, Terna and Poste Italiani, whose summits were due, were analysed. We also studied Fincantieri, engaged in the acquisition of Chantiers de l'Atlantique. The analysis was made on the basis of the official documentation of the companies related to the hearings of the managing directors. The results are summarised in the report accompanying the resolution and which the President mentioned just now. The work of the Industry Commission did not want nor could it be exhaustive of the entire world of large public companies which also includes the State Railways, STS Microelectronics, SNAM, Saipem and others. But with this initiative the Commission wanted to represent the need for greater accountability by the State shareholder, also offering an analytical method of intervention respectful of roles, which are and must remain different, of the Government and of Parliament. You see, such a survey work and such a resolution would not have been feasible in Parliament twenty years ago, even if the archives of the House's Budget Committee retain an exemplary report on privatisations carried out until 2000 by the Mediobanca study office, free of charge. In fact, in the 1990s the common objective of the great majority of the political class was privatisation. Historians and economists have over time gained discordant opinions on those choices: on the impact they had on the system of the big business in Italy, on the public debt, on the financial markets. I consider it crucial, for government action, to deepen these points on the basis of facts, avoiding twisting history to the prejudices of each. But this is not the forum for such a debate. For today it is enough to remember how, in that season, the economic public bodies, i.e. the IRI, the ENI, the Enel and the INA, were transformed into four public limited companies. The first and last don't exist anymore. The INA is now part of the Generali group. The IRI was wound up in 2000 by the Government of Alema and the procedure ended two years later. ENI and Enel have been listed on the stock exchange and remain under the aegis of the State. The ownership of the holdings was transferred directly to the Treasury. In this regard, the transfer of participation in Telecom Italia was an example. The direct allocation of the companies to the Treasury was intended to facilitate their sale or, when this prospect was excluded, was intended to assign to these companies the objective of creating value for the shareholder, according to the theory that in those years had been undisputed on the financial markets and to the great majority of the political class. In 2003, some of the Treasury's main holdings were transferred to the Deposit and Loan Fund, in the meantime transformed into a public limited company and placed outside the scope of the public administration. The entrance of the bank foundations into the Cassa strengthened, if possible, the demand for dividends to the participants. The Bank's articulation in some investment funds then favoured the intervention of the public hand in other companies, provided that they were in surplus. Today the Cassa participates, in partnership with other Italian and foreign investors, in the competition for the acquisition of the ILVA and the Treasury returns controlling shareholder of Monte dei Paschi di Siena, from which it had come out in 1990 following the Amato-Ciampi law, and enters the bank deriving from the merger of the former popular Venetians, whose share companies had never been part before. In recent years the Government has even designed a public company for the turn around of private companies without immediate market solutions, to avoid their closure. Privatisations - it has to be said too - have not come out of the government agenda; but, unlike the 1990s, it is mostly the placement on the stock exchange or with other investors of participations that do not weaken the control by the state. Of course, you can have different, even opposite ideas about this. But on one point the Commission was unanimous: as long as the State retains the control of law or fact of a company, up to that point the Government has an imperative obligation of transparency and direction. The controlling shareholder is never a mere coupon cutter. Hence the first point of the resolution which the Industry Commission proposes to the Assembly, namely to make known the acts aimed at establishing lists for the boards of directors, with particular reference to the concert of the Treasury with the other ministries responsible for matters and the possible role of Palazzo Chigi in the framework of its powers of direction and coordination. Mr Padoan then reported to Parliament. It was a first step; others, even richer in information, will be able to follow in the future. The second point of the resolution required the President of the Council to issue, as soon as possible, the decree on the requirements of good repute, professionalism and autonomy of directors of unlisted public companies and to work to harmonise the statutes of listed companies on the so-called ethical clause. I used the imperfect not without reason. The resolution is dated 15 March, while the decree was issued the next day, two days before the nominations. As noted by Minister Padoan, the latter decree does not delete the previous legislation, but integrates it in order to take account of the decision-making powers of the assemblies. This is a limit of the powers of the assemblies, which is also mentioned in the Commission's resolution. In fact, the wording on the ethical clause that would be more acceptable on the markets is the one adopted by Enel, where at first instance the assembly had also accepted the first most drastic version, rejected instead by the assemblies of ENI and Finmeccanica (now Leonardo). The fourth point is very delicate and concerns conflicts of interest. It seems obvious, but experience tells us that situations may arise in which it is not. The fifth point makes the reconfirmation of the outgoing directors conditional on a rigorous analysis of the results, considering not only the return for the shareholder, but also the more general consequences of the industrial plans pursued. I would like to point out the invitation to assess, in particular, the effective consistency of intangible assets and order books, which are crucial for the holding and development of companies over time. Issues on which legal responsibility belongs to the boards of directors, but which are, however, the subject of penetrating attention in the holding companies of private sector holdings. The public shareholder can certainly not be less careful. The fifth point calls for a balance to be struck between the interests of the shareholder state and the more general and permanent interests of the regulator state in order to develop competition policy. Of particular importance, in my opinion, is the sixth point. In case of placement on the Stock Exchange of shares owned by the State, the Government will have to consider not only the reduction of the public debt and the consequent savings on the interest generated by the collection, but also the waiver of the dividends that result. In the chapter on the Post Office of the accompanying report there are some considerations on this subject. Five other points provide guidance on the role of the presidencies of the boards and on the general principles for the remuneration of top management, avoiding, for example, the provision of end-of-relationship premiums to those who switch from one public company to another when both are under public control. It's not as obvious as it sounds. It's happened in the past. Finally, I would like to mention two points of particular political value. The first, inspired by the Dodd-Frank Act, invites the State shareholder to demand from those who appoint to the role of administrator the commitment to operate to ensure that the councils give in the balance sheet more detailed information on the cost of the consolidated labor and that of the Italian activities in order to tie the eventual increases of the remuneration of the heads of company to the improvement of the Italian wages according to the proportions that the boards of directors will establish. I believe it is a market path to counter the most unjustified inequalities. I acknowledge that companies heard in the Commission have provided interesting information on labour costs. On the other hand, information on the total compensation of managers is often lacking, because the pro-forma calculation of good exits is avoided. Finally, the appointment of the Management Board is asked to ensure that expenditure on advertising, sponsorship and liberality and - this is the sensitive point - the relevant recipients are made known in the budget or in an accompanying report. These expenses, in fact, can be made for entrepreneurial purposes, and then represent a normal operating cost, which will be judged as all the other operating costs for the effects it produces, or can also be used to build consensus around the top management, and this would not be in the interest not only of the State shareholder, but of all stakeholders. This is a point which is reflected in the draft competition law that this House has adopted in recent days. The resolution concludes in the sign of accountability, inviting the Government to submit to Parliament an annual report on the performance of companies in the light of the mandates assigned to them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u11	I declare the debate open. Senator Council is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u12	Mr President, the phenomenon of public-sector companies has historically been linked to three principles and causes: the establishment of the state of business, especially since the 1930s; the formal privatisation of public bodies in the 1990s and the outsourcing of activities carried out by administrative bodies. These three points characterised the phenomenon of public participation. The first two cases concern more generally the relationship between the State and the economic initiative in the market, the third is due to more modern times, with the need to make administrative action more streamlined and more efficient. The empirical data and calculations made may have been affected by the temporal question and the contingency of the moment, because then their application in the coming years led to the implosion of the system. In fact, instead of obtaining the expected results and which had to be guaranteed by the calculations made at the constituent stage, there were serious economic losses for the State. The operation of the institutions according to economic criteria, which was the pivotal principle (i.e. the self-sufficiency of management provided for in Article 3 of the law establishing the Ministry of State Participations), has probably been disregarded. And it has proved to be so misguided, that it does not even guarantee, in many cases, a balanced budget. In this way, the system, unable to self-finance itself, accumulated losses that could only be offset by the periodic contribution of the State. And in some cases it happened. The role and functions of the companies involved by the public administrations, particularly widespread in the local administration sector, have been the subject, over time, of numerous interventions aimed at rationalising the sector, both to increase its transparency and to reduce its number, also with the aim of reducing its expenditure (the famous spending review). In order to reduce and overcome this fragmentation, Law No. 124 of 2015, the so-called Madia reform, was launched. Reform on which we have been, as League, very critical, so much so that the Constitutional Court, in 2016, rejected a large part of this reform, having to intervene with a new outline of legislative decree. With regard to the resolution on today's agenda, I would like to thank Mr Cucchetti personally for having conducted the Commission's operations well and for having been able to articulate the various needs very well. Probably something more could be done - this is clear - but attention has been paid to our ability to incorporate certain key elements into a resolution. The 10th Commission unanimously approved the 911 affair, which commits the Government to take a series of initiatives aimed at introducing elements of greater transparency in the performance of the main companies controlled by the State of interest of the Industry Commission. Specifically, of the 14 points at least 4 intervene in particular on a rigorous analysis of the results, on which depends the reconfirmation of the outgoing directors, and four others on the issue linked to the transparency of the performance of the main companies, in particular those controlled by the State. Transparency has seemed to us, Mr. Representative of the Government, to be one of the fundamental elements and must be the principle which must necessarily be inspired by the choice of criteria relating to the appointments of directors, as well as the presentation of curricula and appointments concerning the entire governing body. The case of the bad management of the capital apparatus, with reference to the issue of waste, is emblematic of the limits of the Madia reform. These are aspects that have already highlighted some flaws in the short term of this reform. Clearly, there are positive aspects in the resolution, and we would like to say that, however, some points could probably be more distorted and interpreted than such an important issue. There is also a report by Cottarelli on the number of companies involved in various ways, including by local authorities, which I consider to be economically important in terms of public expenditure. There are therefore certainly positive aspects in this resolution which commits the Government to launch, as soon as possible, the implementing decree on the requirements of good repute, professionalism and autonomy. We also have to deal with the fact that the declaration of constitutional illegitimacy of certain provisions of the delegation law, which are inevitably reflected in the legislative decree, extends the time of a concrete and comprehensive reform of the public administration with a view to greater efficiency. Legislative Decree No. 175 of 2016 sets new ceilings on the salaries of public managers working in state-controlled companies. The rule had been the subject of our questioning, of an interrogation and also of a resolution (we made it of all colors on this subject). In the resolution we had asked for a hand in the remuneration of presidents or administrators. Again, in order to see implemented the rule that has for managers the maximum ceiling of emolument in the famous 240,000 euros, we must wait for the adoption of the decree of the MEF. Here perhaps a mechanism is triggered that denotes the inability of the Government to follow up its provisions and therefore be very incisive. We have also devoted a passage to Community law, with which we must always confront ourselves: in this regard, the attitude of the Italian legislator to favour certain rules towards the public enterprise goes far beyond what is required by Community law, which instead assumes an attitude of total neutrality between public and private ownership of companies. What matters to Community law is that the public undertaking does not enjoy privileged regimes, in line with Article 106 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In this debate, the most recent legislation is aimed in various ways at restricting the use of the corporate model. In particular, public services have for some time been the subject of a critical review by the legislator, basically for some reasons: public companies financed with public money, where they operate on the market in competition with private entities, benefit from undue competitive advantage. Another reason is that public companies increase the costs of public equipment. Since the time available to me is over, Mr President, I will allow myself to conclude my speech in the explanation of vote. I will probably also make a point on the issue of RAI, which has not been considered in this resolution, but which is emblematic of how, sometimes, some aspects do not work. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u13	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u14	Mr President, today we are talking - and we have done so before - about the companies that are part of the state and who are in charge of them. It is such an important issue for our country that we have tabled a resolution in the 10th Commission. I would therefore like to thank my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement who are sitting in that Commission, who have fought, along with others, to ensure that some of the key points were put in writing. Participating companies are sometimes used, even too often, as armchairs and as an extension of a becera and marchettara policy. The state that takes on an entrepreneurial role is a concept that I do not want to exalt or denigrate. There are many economic doctrines and studies that explain the pros and cons of a role of the state within the economy. I would simply like to remind you of that part of our Constitution which represents the role of the economy: Article 41 reminds us that private economic initiative is free, but it cannot take place in conflict with social usefulness or in such a way as to harm security, freedom and human dignity. Beautiful this concept: private economic activity is free, but it must be directed towards social utility. It should be remembered, because sometimes we forget the meaning of the concept of economy, public and private. If this is the synthesis that our constituent Fathers found, we ask ourselves what the highest social goal can be if we do not manage a public society correctly and successfully, which, when it has a good performance, guarantees a direct and indirect gain to the country, therefore to all citizens. But this did not happen: historically we know that this is not the case. The greatest and most important technological developments of the modern era have been undertaken by the State - we must remember - which, unlike the private entrepreneur, has two very important resources: time and overall vision. Often the private sector does not have the time, because it must immediately reach the economic objective, while the State can To afford it. These two characteristics, if well managed, represent a great competitive advantage of the State over private economic entrepreneurs. This position, in a certain privileged sense, is aimed not only at reasons of profit but also at social welfare (so let us return to Article 41 of the Constitution), and therefore requires double the care, seriousness and managerial capacity required of the private sector, which is rightly driven by the objective of maximizing profit: this is the objective of private society. In the public sector we can afford a lower profit, and that is a great advantage. In 2017, almost seventy years after the promulgation of the Constitution, we face the classic political evils, which, on the other hand, has often acted in another direction. The turbid interweaving between politics and business is a constant evil, repeated, without mentioning all the failures: the President reminded us of the era of privatization and all of us remember the sale of Telecom Italia, which was a fundamental asset, because it had the network, conquered with a double climb; equally we remember what happened with Alitalia. And once again we find ourselves thinking about these issues. In the points highlighted in the motion for a resolution, we called for the publication of acts for the establishment of the lists of boards of directors, i.e. a minimum level of transparency; we called for the requirements of good repute and professionalism to be published, thus double the seriousness. We want to be sure that there are no conflicts of interest and that professional profiles within the boards are selected with modern, clear and transparent practices. We are asking for best practice. We ask that the best be put at the head of the participating companies: it seems normal to me. But what happens, what does Minister Padoan do? All he does is appoint Leonardo (former Finmeccanica) as the head of the company such a perfume that, if I remember correctly, he has been working in the banks for forty years and I do not think he has specific competences in the field of aerospace and defence; indeed, considering that he has managed banks like Monte dei Paschi di Siena that, if I remember correctly, has serious financial problems for which probably the managing director will be returned to judgment, it does not seem to me that it is a good practice; indeed, we have put Leonardo SpA in the hands of a person who is neither expert nor competent and who certainly does not have a medal at the value for the management of the previous companies. If that's the way politics thinks it can push, force, energy into this country, well, you're in bad shape. I'm telling the government he's responsible for making these appointments. This will not happen when - hopefully as soon as possible - the 5 Star Movement goes to the Government and will not use these practices, because they are not in the collective interest, but in the interest of the few who are certainly not the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u15	Senator Orellana is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, kind Vice-Minister, we are examining the resolution adopted by the 10th Standing Commission at the end of the examination of the deal awarded on the results of the main companies directly or indirectly involved by the State, with particular reference to the financial and competitive fields. In drawing up the document, the Commission has taken into account several companies, namely ENI, ENEL, Poste italiane, Leonardo, Terna and Fincantieri, with the aim of offering the Government and Parliament an in-depth analysis of the performance of the outgoing managements and their governance problems. To this end, the official documentation of the companies and the hearings of the managing directors were used. The documentation consists mainly of financial statements and, in some cases, interim reports and presentations for investors. However, during the hearings, non-financial data were also found, in particular in the context of the analysis of the contents of the mandate received by the shareholder. In this context - for example - the Italian Post Office referred in general terms to its role as a profit-seeking company and, at the same time, to social inclusion; Fincantieri has instead illustrated the impact of its activity on the territories as leader of an entire industrial supply chain. The other companies were more generic, but it was possible to register a widespread commitment to combating corruption, often through the conclusion of international agreements. Precisely with regard to the increasing importance of non-financial aspects in the corporate sphere, I would like to take this opportunity to recall the importance of the provisions of Legislative Decree No 254 of 30 December 2016 on the implementation of Directive 2014/95/EU on the communication of non-financial information and information on diversity by large groups, such as those we are dealing with. In particular, this rule, in Article 3, regulates the individual declaration of a non-financial nature, a document necessary to ensure the understanding of the business activity, its performance, its results and the impact it produces, covering environmental, social, personnel-related issues, respect for human rights, the fight against active and passive corruption, which have some relevance in the context of the activities typical of the company. Among the elements covered by the declaration are the use of energy resources (distinguishing from renewable and non-renewable sources) and the use of water resources; greenhouse gas emissions and pollutant emissions into the atmosphere; the impact on the environment and on health and safety; social and personnel management aspects, including actions to ensure gender equality, the way in which dialogue with the social partners is carried out; respect for human rights, measures taken to prevent violations, and actions taken to prevent attitudes and actions that are still discriminatory; the fight against corruption, with an indication of the instruments adopted to this end. It should also be recalled that the following Article 4 provides for the preparation of this statement also in consolidated form, including not only the data of the parent company, but also of all its wholly consolidated subsidiary companies; a document aimed at ensuring the understanding of the group's activity, its performance, its results and its impact. From the content point of view, the consolidated declaration faithfully reflects those provided for in the individual declaration - I have already listed them - and it is a way of ensuring the fairness of the conduct of national companies even in countries that are not part of the Union. I believe that environmental responsibility - to name one of those listed - has value for our companies operating both in Italy and abroad. Recently, also the stability programme of Italy, Section I, of the Document of Economy and Finance 2017 has highlighted the importance of non-financial elements in economic and financial assessments, recalling that the welfare of a society benefits from the increase in gross domestic product, but does not coincide with it and, therefore, the introduction of indicators of fair and sustainable well-being in economic planning is now indispensable. I am therefore strongly in favour of the commitment contained in letter (e) of the resolution, aimed at making the reconfirmation of outgoing directors subject to a rigorous analysis of the results, considering not only the return for the shareholder, but also the consequences in terms of employment, safety at work and the environment, with particular reference to international agreements and European climate and energy programmes. I hope that this will be a further, very important step in the path towards a concretely fairer and more sustainable economy and that, in the future, these constraints will become ever stronger and wider, with increasingly explicit and binding references to respect for human rights. This includes my agenda, which I have tabled, and which I hope will be welcomed. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u17	Senator Castaldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened to Minister Padoan at the hearing in front of the assembled and joint committees of the House and Senate about a month ago, and I feel I confirm and reiterate the judgment that the 5 Star Movement expressed in a statement: Minister Padoan is a greedy man. I also confirm the judgment that the participants cannot be the revolving door leading to the arrangement of friends of a former President of the Council and, at least, the place where to compensate for the diatribes between the internal areas of the Democratic Party. For appointments in participating companies we have seen a series of beceri measures ad personam and the total - I can also say vulgar - contempt of the will expressed by a unanimous vote of 10a. Commission for Industry, Commerce and Tourism on this resolution. I would remind you that, in the resolution adopted in the 10th Commission unanimously, commitments have been made to the Government which include a number of points: firstly, the reconfirmation of outgoing directors subject to a rigorous analysis of the results and impact of industrial plans on the economy, employment, safety, work and the environment, with particular reference to international agreements and European programmes on climate and energy; secondly, the approach of appointments on the basis of merit, giving particular importance to business experiences at least similar and ensuring gender balance in all the different functions. On the other hand, without the Minister providing at least sufficient explanations, we have assisted in appointments for the renewal of the councils of ENAV, ENAC, Enel, Leonardo and Poste italiane, that have left us bewildered, because they are not justified in any way by industrial considerations, but dictated only by political logics, with in the background the clash then in place between the government and the external summits of the PD - let's call them by name: Renzi - on privatisation. The Pavid Minister Padoan has not made known to us the acts aimed at the definition of the lists and the individual stages of the process carried out and nebulous was his account about the acquisition of the concert between the various ministries competent in the matter. On the other hand, the roles played by Gentiloni and Renzi are clear. Today we have the conviction that these are political appointments decided in advance, at the table, to which was simply attributed a semblance of presumption of legitimacy, with the famous directive of 16 March. It happened that not only were the requirements of good repute that had been the subject of a precise resolution of the Senate, with the motion presented by Senator Tomaselli and other senators, of June 19, 2013, approved by all the parliamentary groups, but also the function of the guarantee committee, introduced by the motion of June 24, 2013, to ascertain the correctness in the nomination procedure was abolished. All this was done by introducing a directive ad personam, which allowed to designate the CEO of Leonardo with a modification of the directive that took place two days before - perhaps - of appointments and practically secretly. I, Mr President, have the doubt that this change has been made even after that, it is likely. In fact, on March 18, the Gentiloni Government designates as CEO of Leonardo Alessandro Profumo, former president of the distracted bank Monte dei Paschi di Siena, who, in the first place - as Senator Cioffi has already said - has no experience in that field, having been occupied for forty years of banks - Unicredit and Mps - and of finances; secondly, it would be ineligible according to the criteria contained in the indications of the MEF of 24 April 2013, having been returned to judgment for a case of banking usury, just on March 10, 2017, however causing on the stock exchange a loss of value for shareholders of about 600 million euros, 200 million of which are ours - I say it to all Italians - because the State is shareholder to 30 percent. It is so ad personam, because in reality, without prejudice to considerations of opportunity, the speech does not apply - as happens - to the CEO of ENI, because, as far as I know, today has not been sent back to judgment, but only the requests of the prosecutors have been formulated, so, for its designation it was not necessary to change the directive, as instead it had to be done for Profumo. What a piece of shit, Mr. President! With this round of appointments something more and serious has been done. In essence, this Government has lowered the threshold of tolerance compared to the strictest criteria of good repute previously established: an ethically and politically incomprehensible choice, which still no one explains and yet no one explains to all Parliament and to the country. It remains to be understood what are the reasons for the political choice made by the current Government in allowing those who were ineligible in 2014 to become eligible in 2017, loosening the principals that had been introduced with the directive. Someone - for example - can explain what it has to do with Leonardo Luca Bader's business, from 2008 to 2014 in charge of the Democratic Party's foreign affairs department? Probably needs someone who speaks English instead of Renzi. And how do you explain the arrival of Matteo Del Fante, Florentine, driving Poste directly from Terna, where he had landed in 2014 by choice of Renzi, with a past - by chance - in JP Morgan? A gentleman who, during his internal management, raised debt from 6.5 billion to 8 billion. This is the prize! And what was the need to indicate on the board of directors of Poste italiani a professional already member of the board of directors of Poligrafico and Mint of the State? In short, we find ourselves funders, consultants, supporters, as well as potential buyers of state companies such as ILVA ended up on several boards of directors of the participants. We had asked for quality parameters in the appointment of the boards of directors and, instead, in response, the government has confirmed to the ENI Emma Marcegaglia, that as entrepreneur has accumulated a debt with the banks of beyond 2 billion out of 4 billion turnover. It's easy to be an entrepreneur like that! Not so unusual, but certainly embarrassing, is the geographical origin of many of the nominated. During the audition it emerged that from Florence come Matteo Del Fante, Roberta Neri, Marco Seracini, accountant of Renzi. From Arezzo comes Diva Moriani, while from Pistoia comes Alberto Bianchi. Always Tuscan are Fabrizio Landi, Catia Bastioli and the same general manager of RAI Campo Dall'Orto. Evidently those who made these appointments, first of all that of Profumo, do not consider necessary neither the competence nor the independence of the designated by the appointee. Let's take an example: in the event that the Milan court decides to refer Dr. Profumo to trial for fake in the budget and manipulation of information on the Monte dei Paschi di Siena affair, does anyone who made this appointment think that the image of Leonardo and the Government would emerge strengthened, however after a referral to court for banking wear? I think it's easy for everyone to say no. In general terms, Mr President, I believe that the fact that the Government has mortified the will of the Senate of the Republic, expressed with the unanimous vote of the parliamentary groups, is unheard of, even if it comes to issuing an ad personam directive in order to make it eligible as director of Leonardo who did not have the eligibility requirements. And I'll explain why. First of all, we are talking about a subject referred to judgment on 1 March 2017 for a case of banking usury and, therefore, ineligible. He couldn't go through an evaluation of the professional requirements based on experience because he didn't - could he, Senator Cioffi? - any experience in aerospace, defence and security and - in fact - any industrial experience. All these statements are not made by Senator Castaldi: they are found in the shorthand report of the 45th public session of Wednesday, June 19, 2013 of the Senate of the Republic. I hope, then, that the Government will soon respond to our urgent question and tell us why it considered it necessary to amend the 2013 directive only a few days before the appointment, by removing the clause of good repute considered first appropriate for the appointments of the boards of directors of the companies controlled by the State. Please tell us why the new directive published in March 2017 should be applied to a procedure for the appointment of boards of subsidiaries of the State which began on 1 January 2017. It also tells us when it intends to adopt as a matter of urgency the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers provided for in Article 11 of the legislative decree of 19 August 2016, n. 175 - in order to remain in the proceedings - on the requirements of good repute, professionalism and autonomy of the members of the administrative bodies and of the control of companies under public control. We as Movement, all the good Italians and the competent people who have studied a life and are independent of politics await your answers. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators Casaletto and Molinari. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u19	Senator Uras is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u20	Mr President, we are talking about participating and partly state-controlled companies, which are the operational arm of industrial policies, of those that have remained in this country. It is well known to all that the Italian industrial system is connected to public functions and that it is in a state of crisis even deep in terms of presence in the national and international markets. This resolution is, therefore, important and appreciable in many respects contained in it, especially from the point of view of identifying the managers, the managers of the companies concerned and the transparency of the nomination procedures, but also - I believe - from the point of view of the mission to be carried out by the large companies to which a piece of the national economy and possibility of development are linked. I refer in particular also to the letter (e) of the resolution, which highlights the need to make the reconfirmation of outgoing directors subject to a rigorous analysis of the results, considering not only the return for the shareholder (i.e. profit), but also the impact of industrial plans on the national economy, in particular on employment, on job security, on the environment, with particular reference to international agreements and European climate and energy programmes, and so on. I say this because it is also necessary to analyse the presence in the national territory of the factories and industrial production activities of the major economic players in question and of the work production activity. If you consider Leonardo society, you realize that its presence is imposing in the regions of the North and absolutely very limited, even ridiculous, in the other regions, and especially in those of the Mezzogiorno. If you exclude a small presence in Puglia and Campania, there are Regions totally forgotten by these subjects, and are Regions increasingly subject to reduction of the productive and industrial presence of companies with participation and public control. So, how to make a balanced economy and how to stay within a system that sets itself the goal of the harmonious development of the country from the economic point of view? Of course, it is important that a CEO is an honest person, chosen as part of the political responsibility of those who have to appoint him. And unlike others, I think that the dependence on the policy of the CEO should be increasing. I am referring, however, to good policy, that is, to the planning of public interventions in the economy, which everyone knows is needed, because there is a need for investment. Moreover, we cannot pass on to those who, on the one hand, claim that public investment must be activated and, on the other hand, say that the public (i.e. politics, those with government responsibilities) must remain outside the control, the direction and also the identification of the responsibilities of those who are called to manage industrial companies with public participation and control. The responsibility of politics must be exercised and the responsibility of those who govern is to identify who is to administer those subjects. Those who govern, however, also have the burden of giving an address to those subjects. Point (e) of the resolution makes it very clear that the relapse of the directors' action must be considered not only from the point of view of the return for the shareholder, but also because of the parameters of public interest. It is therefore also important to articulate the presence of those who have large public contracts. For example, Leonardo is a large company that carries out its activities mainly because of orders that come from the State and the Ministry of Defence. I say this for a very specific reason. Although Sardinia is the Region that gives more under the profiles of military servitudes on the territorial level and military exercise activities, in it there is not even an industrial plant of Leonardo. In Varese, within a radius of fifty kilometers, there are three plants, with thousands and thousands of workers who take care of the assembly of the F-35; there is Agusta with his helicopters and there are aircraft for training. In the Province of Varese there is therefore an economic return and there are no military servitudes. In Sardinia there are military services and there is no industrial plant. Political responsibility is needed to indicate the directors, because they are those who work with public resources, perform public functions and are subject to the control of the State and our Ministry of Economics and Finance. It must also be borne in mind that they are a useful and necessary operational arm. I think that public investment must increase and must be combined as best as possible with private investment. I believe that we must move towards a mixed capitalization as productive as possible, but that the quality of our country's production must also be maintained at the highest possible level. This is one of the addresses that must be given to directors, who must be honest and paid for the responsibilities they exercise, in compliance with what the laws of the State establish in the matter of compensation. Another address must be where, how and why it must be produced, so that those returns of general interest and not only for shareholders, as set out in point (e) of the motion for a resolution, are effectively pursued. Mr President, I shall conclude. We appreciate the resolution that has been tabled. It seems to me that there is everything in it to be able to proceed with maximum transparency to the identification of directors, according to responsibilities of government. I think we need to reflect on the Italian Post Office, on which agendas have been drawn up, because it provides an essential service that must be located throughout the country and must also be supported financially, so that privatisation must be meditated. In conclusion, we will vote in favour of this, as well as for the resolution. [[Applause from Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u21	The debate is closed. I warn you that to the text of the resolution of the 10th The Standing Committee presented the G1 and G2 agendas, the texts of which are distributed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u22	Mr President, I will take very little time, because the purpose of this resolution is to set out the broad lines on which each political group will then make its own assessments and will have its own consequences. I would just like to clarify a few parts of the country's history, and to share them with the House. One in particular concerns the question of managers' competences. Usually, the criterion of being in similar areas is the guide which the Commission recommended and which has been followed on average. However, there are cases in which the availability of specialised managers in a certain sector may not offer suitable people to play the role of head of the company. This happens in life and it is not always said that those who come from within the sector are the best solution. Without wanting to argue with anyone, we all remember how the FIAT crisis flared up in the 1990s when there was a so-called car guy - as the Americans say - born and raised in the car. FIAT then rose again, certainly in measures on which debates can be opened, but it certainly avoided failure and became the protagonist in the global world of the car, under the guidance of a manager like Marchionne, who did not come from the car industry, but was the controller and was a financial, just to say. In this case, a certain intuitu personae is fundamental and it is the responsibility that the shareholder assumes. In this respect, the choices legitimately made by the shareholder should be assessed over time and on the basis of the results. That's basically the point. The other, which concerns ethical issues, I would like to resolve as follows: it is true that this House has adopted a motion setting out certain points. It is also true that the directives that responsibly the Ministry of Economy later derived from it and sent to its representatives on the boards of directors of listed companies had then diversified results, because the assembly of members is sovereign, and we cannot forget it. It is interesting for everyone that there is - on the one hand - a commitment to ethical rigour, without giving in - this is my personal opinion, which I share with all of you - to justified or judicial excesses, so to speak, and - on the other hand - it is useful that the statutes be aligned and made consistent with each other, so as not to create excessive differences between societies.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u23	I call on the Government representative to speak on the resolution already adopted by the 10th Standing Committee and agendas submitted.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u24	Mr President, I will be very brief because, as the Commissioners know, I have taken part in the preparation of the resolution that is being tabled today in the Senate vote on this subject, on the basis of a vote on the same text that took place in the Commission, in preparation for which the Government has provided its cooperation, expressing, at the end of the work, sharing on the overall result. I merely say that, by giving its opinion in favour of the resolution on our examination, the Government knows that it is making a demanding choice. It knows, that the methodologies and criteria set out in the resolution will be based on and used for an evaluation in the near future of the choices made at this stage regarding appointments by the Government, which believes that it has inspired the whole of these methodologies and criteria also the choices made a few weeks ago regarding appointments. The Government is, of course, prepared to submit - as a sacrosanct parliamentary regime - to the exercise of Parliament's inspection union activity on the consistency between what is foreseen in this resolution, what is provided for by the laws and regulations that are to be applied, and the concrete nomination choices made. This means that the Government takes responsibility for the choices it has made. That's how democracy works. This is of course a criterion that can lead to a good outcome of the judgment on the Government, if the choices are considered to be average positive, or a critical judgment on the Government, which assumes responsibility for it, if it is considered on average that the choices are unacceptable. For this reason, not only do I have no objections, but I am absolutely convinced of the usefulness of adopting this resolution for the future. As far as the agenda is concerned, I welcome the G1 agenda presented by Senators Orellana and Bencini, as it develops a particular aspect of the principles contained in the resolution. On the other hand, I am opposed, in particular to the arguments put forward in the preamble, to the G2 agenda, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u25	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on document XXIV, No 73.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u28	COUNCIL (LN-Aut). Mr President, the Vice-Minister's brief report has led us to understand how possible responsibilities must certainly be considered as an object of attention on our part. I am making a nail on Mr Uras' surgery. He spoke about the good policy and the responsibility of the government, on which we absolutely agree. He also stated the idea that the decision-making power within a publicly-owned society should be a mission for the attention and interest of the citizen. The power, Mr President, cannot and must not be detached from responsibility, and the Deputy Minister mentioned it earlier. Do you have the decision-making power? Great. Does your decision depend on the outcome of a public society? That's okay, too. Does your actions depend on the well-being of the citizens? It's your mission. Does the goodness of public investment depend on the attitudes you have in managing a company of this kind? This is your job, too. Then you must also be responsible for all these actions. In part they have been dealt with within the resolution; but, if these responsibilities, which can be absolutely certified, then do not have a feedback on the subjects who have them and who had responsibility for this task, then the resolution unfortunately will leave the time it finds. Looking at the whole system of participating companies, I immediately jumped to my eye as it seems impossible to think that, according to Cottarelli's report, that we no longer know what happened - we lost some subjects who had to put their hands on the spending review, in the folds of the various mechanisms - there are about 10,000 participating companies. Then the Court of Auditors counted about 7,500. There's a hole in a quarter of these companies, and I don't quite understand how such a thing can happen. There is therefore a real jungle, dotted also by some area of quicksand. Mr President, I believe that this resolution must surely make us think and light up the problems of some very important companies, on which so many workers depend and on which the State and this Government must make absolutely clear, putting the administrators themselves in a position to have clear rules. Italy certainly cannot afford even a half-step in the management of these companies. To suffer the greatest damage probably, if this does not work, it is precisely the Ministry of Economy and Finance, the MEF, which is in an uncomfortable position to have to put international companies in a position to operate on the markets. I mentioned the RAI earlier: we said that politics had to be brought out of the RAI, which has never been so politicized. There was a question related to the inability to produce an industrial plan, a Marshall plan, as someone had said; everything is always played on a few tenths of a tax wedge point (zero comma something). We did not have the ability to put on track some great works, beyond some announcements that the former Prime Minister made on the issue linked to the bridge over the Strait, which made us smile a bit. Therefore, these are important societies, societies that must be managed to the best of their ability, and we must give power and responsibility to those who have such a task. We shall vote in favour of the resolution, which we consider to be partially positive. Perhaps a few more points could be introduced and a few more paragraphs could be sorted out. It puts us in a position to think that the Government has a strategic vision about these societies and that, at national and international level, the issue is absolutely under control. Under control, perhaps it is a rather big expression; it is true that some of the points of some documents, which in the past the North League Group had presented, have perhaps been unconsciously or consciously taken up. And we are happy about that, because it means that we had seen it well in the past. I conclude by saying that we will vote in favour and thank President Cucchetti for the attention he has also had to some of the issues that this Group has mentioned in the Commission. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Mancuso.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u31	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, our Group will vote in favour of this resolution in line with the vote already expressed by Senator Granaiola in the Industry Commission. We consider this to be a good document, full of data and information, but I think it leads us to think, not only on time, but also on a strategic basis. Budgetary analyses are therefore good according to international business management indicators, but in our opinion we need to take this opportunity to try to raise our eyes and not to remain imprisoned in numbers, in the only parameters, because of a diversity of public industry, participations in prevailing public capital. This is an opportunity to try to reflect on the role of these participants. Therefore, the approach cannot be reduced to that which is important for good management, fairness and transparency: these are, in our opinion, necessary conditions, but not sufficient, because we believe that we need to make a leap forward. In other words, we have to get out of a logic and an ideological vision of privatization, that is, we have to get out of that mood that has characterized perhaps the last twenty years, with a criticism in particular, in our country, to the sector of public industry, to the public hand in the economy, on the wave of that private is beautiful, private is better that it has ended up systematically denigrating the whole world of public entrepreneurship. I believe that this is also an opportunity to make a further reflection: it is true, the history of what were once called state participations was also characterized by malversations, clientelism, bad management, but we must never forget that without state participations, without that intervention, Italy would never have become the industrial economy that it is today. This is important, because in our opinion we really need to rethink the role of these companies, in the perspective of returning to talk about industrial policy in this country. Industrial policy has not been talked about for a long time and it cannot be enough - I say this now - to reason on the important chapter of the economy 4.0. If we want to talk again about industrial policy in this country, we cannot help but reason on the role and strategic role that societies directly involved by the state can play. There is therefore a reflection on the past that must help us to move towards the future. I quote, for example, a fact that struck me a lot: many times we have talked about the Italian gap in the field of investment in research and development that sees our country in the queue in all the European rankings. Well, reading on page 15 of the Commission's report on the resolution that Enel does not declare expenditure on research and development and that, in essence, only innovates, buying and combining the fruits of other people's research according to a scheme that, in Italy, is typical of the medium and small enterprise, I wonder if this is a fair thing, beyond the budgetary parameters, indicators, of the return on investment by the public subject. In other words, it is impossible to think of relaunching research in Italy without the industry giving its fundamental contribution to the prevailing public capital. This is an issue that must be raised, namely the idea that the Italian economy starts again if it rethinks its industrial policy, if important investments in industrial policy return. A fundamental mistake has been made in the past: it was thought that the least and most private state would mean renunciation of industrial policy. But this happened only in our country: in other countries, as in France, the idea was defended, often with nails and teeth, that in some strategic sectors there should be a presence of the public. Just as I believe that the role of several of these societies with a view to decreasing the divides that exist is fundamental. If we think about issues like broadband, for example, I get a bit of an easy joke. The conviction of many is that, if in the fifties and sixties there had been the logic with which these companies are led today, in the Italian territory there would still be vast areas without electricity. This is because bringing electricity to the marginal areas of our country is not profitable. In the same way, today we are with a fundamental divide, which concerns broadband. We are creating first-class and second-class citizens. Is this a problem that only concerns the state? It is clear that investment must be state-owned, but one cannot escape from this problem. There is not, in fact, only the digital divide: for how it is working and how the Italian Post Office is setting up compared to the small municipalities, with the closure of post offices, the reduction of opening days and the reduction of delivery days, which are implemented in Provinces like that in which I live and operate and even in Municipalities with more than 20,000 inhabitants, we are creating - let me say the joke - a life divides. More and more, that is, there is a difference between those who live in the big centers and those who live in the smaller centers. And I remember that there are not a few hundred thousand but millions of people living in small countries. In the same way, here are not mentioned State Railways but, from this point of view too, the areas that are out of high speed are basically finished at the margins. This is a question that I believe must be raised here: what role does the State want to play in the economy, to reduce divides and to help avoid creating differences between citizens and, in this perspective, as a role for companies to participate in public participation. Finally, on the substance of the document which - I repeat - has our appreciation, there is a substantial agreement on the issues of independence and commitments. Let me make a joke here: as we have also said in another place, we have seen in the recent rounds of appointment a territorial familyism that we would no longer like to see. There is a topic, therefore, which concerns the judgement on the results and in this we agree with the approach taken by the President of the Commission, Senator Mucchetti, but we should try to add, in the final evaluation on the results, also what vision ability, vision, there was of the business. In passing this data, it is clear that some excellent budgetary results have been obtained in diametrically opposed ways: some have invested, some have internationalized and others have worked only to make it efficient and to cut costs. It is not the same, of course, both in the perspective of employment and in the perspective of an industrial policy. Then there is our absolute sharing of the point concerning the next possible privatisations, that is, the need for a true budget, a true calculation that is not only reduced to the idea that through privatisation the stock of debt (important element) is reduced but also, as the Commission's report says, the balance between the foreseeable savings on the service of the public debt quota that would be cancelled with the collection of the placement and the amount of dividends to which the State renounces. With regard to the Italian Post Office there is another possible role, that of the Deposit and Loan Fund, on which I believe it would be necessary for the Government to define its guidelines and guidelines in the near future. In conclusion, I repeat the support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for the resolution before us, in the hope that we will finally return to talking more and better about industrial policy, which is not only a fundamental element in the economic perspective, but is the key to making the recovery that is fragile at the moment, precisely because there is no industrial policy. [[Applause from Senator Guerra.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u34	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, the Senators of the Italian Left will vote in favour of the resolution when we examine it, which certainly contains some valuable elements and ideas. However, I cannot fail to stress the fact that, exactly one week after the adoption of the resolution in the Commission, especially on points that gave very clear indications to the Government and committed it with regard to the mechanism of choosing appointments, the Government itself for many of them has certainly not acted in accordance with these commitments. As has already been pointed out, choices have been made, in our view, very questionable, which are not based on skills or other possible assessments. There is a kind of narrow ride in Italy - let's say the things as they are - for which there is a small group that passes from one company to another, from one appointment to another, passing from one bank to a participating company, and often they are the ones that do it by trade. The Alitalia story - excuse me if I mention it - is the testimony: there is a gentleman who is good to administer everything. The result is before everyone's eyes, with serious damage to the interests of the country, workers and users. It's some kind of tour company; do we want to call it that? In Italy there is a kind of tour company, whose members go quietly from administering a bank to managing a large participating company; you can switch from a large public energy company to any other company, like RAI to another company. So I am sorry - and I am also addressing the President who has dedicated a specific reference to the question of competences - but we cannot fail to stress this fact, because it is the data that confirms it. The rapporteur mentioned the example of Marchionne, I - as is well known - referred to Luca Cordero di Montezemolo and others who are good for everything; to a certain extent, however, because then, unfortunately, very often they cause disasters. So it is a bit of a joke, because today we approve this resolution, but in fact some clear issues that had been raised in it have been well overcome. Not to mention the narrower circles for appointments. Senator Fornaro referred to a sort of territorial familyism; therefore, we have a more general tour company and then there are the territorial tour companies. Having said that, I think that the work that has been done on the given deal, even with reference to all the data I have found in the report, would need further study. Perhaps the resolution offers too little space to address issues that, especially in this period, deserve a discussion and a more in-depth assessment, even with respect to the ideological drunkenness that has invested our country, as well as other countries, on the subject of privatisations, some of which, moreover, have not been properly done. This debate that we should have the opportunity to do to the full should all remind us of what should be our country's strategic interest in engagement in public-participated societies. Perhaps, in the light of the unhappy economic situation of our country, which has certainly not yet emerged from the crisis, we should take this issue out of hand and understand what it means today to articulate seriously the industrial policies that have no longer been in our country. This is also in the light of the choices made in recent years, which have not only led to industrial desertification, but above all have ideologicalized the idea that the State should no longer be a protagonist, even if in a smaller way, within industrial policies and, directly, also in the economy and in investments. I believe that not only did that season show all its difficulties, but I also believe that this approach has not proved correct in the light of the results. Therefore, in my opinion, we should reopen today a serious debate on what it means to recover a strong role of the state, which is not just programming. I would also like to make one more point. I wonder, that is, whether those choices, all ideological and made of very concrete interests, which certainly did not give good results for the interest of the country, have meant that the majority of these participating societies (specifically those that have been at the center of the deal assigned, therefore of the work of the Commission) have been strategically and fully in line with the interests of the country or if instead the State, with the various governments, has not more and more withdrawn from giving clear indications, in line not only with the interests, but also with the choices of wider scope from the economic point of view of the country. I am thinking, for example, of energy choices. We had an arrangement. In my life I have also been in the majority, not only to the opposition, and I remember perfectly what happened: the resistances that we have had to do often the opposite of the same indications of the Government and the Ministries. I am thinking, for example, of the Prodi Government's 2006-2008 season: at a time when the country took a big step forward in positioning itself on a national energy strategy based more on renewables (that is the period of the energy account and the most massive investments in the field of renewable energy), from a strategic point of view the great national players, like Enel and ENI, were in some ways hindering these choices that were legitimately carried out by the government and the majority. All this continues and then was discovered as a business, but not within the strategic choices of the country itself. I made this example, but I could do many more. Even the ENI, in some ways, for a long time and still now in some countries, continues to replace the foreign policy choices of the country itself. I believe that all these elements should lead us to have and plan a more in-depth discussion and probably to draw the Government's attention to industrial policies, which should become, also from a strategic point of view, an investment for a real economic recovery in our country, not only for a return of an industrial season for industrial policies, but for a profound change of the same. This concerns a lot of areas. We have tabled an agenda for the Post Office. In this case too, choices cannot be made only with regard to the budget or the urgency of having other resources to reduce public debt, but we must see the interests of the country. That of the Post Office is one of the classic examples, also because the universal service, through further operations of precariousness would be further developed, as unfortunately happened in recent years. That is why we have tabled an agenda on this particular point. In reconfirming our vote in favour of the resolution, we call for the planning of a more in-depth and general strategic debate on the role of our participants. [[Applause from Senator Cervellini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u37	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, the previous speakers have of course stated that they will vote on the resolution, even though there has been a fierce criticism of this Government's industrial policy in their speeches. Indeed, Senator Fornaro has said that there is no industrial policy and Mr De Petris, while voting in favour, I believe that he has made a great deal of point. We share the criticism and we agree with those who said that with this resolution, Mr Cucchetti did a good job, but he does not carry anywhere. Therefore, as a Group we have the courage to criticize the Government and the negative contribution it has made to the participants at this time and therefore we will abstain. The resolution under discussion is a very important act because it deals with a number of issues relating to the main Italian companies participating in the State, as the previous speakers mentioned. This means that we are talking about realities like ENI, Enel, Poste, Leonardo-Finmeccanica, Terna, Fincantieri. They are of absolute importance to the Italian economy both in terms of the financial results obtained by our participants and in terms of the workers who lend their activities to them, which are tens of thousands. I think it is essential to have a broad view of these realities, which this resolution does not do. In addition to the solid assets they must ensure, as mentioned above, employment, which is still too often experiencing moments of real crisis, but also the ability to operate in a much wider area than the national one, having to continue to deal with a regulatory environment that goes beyond what our parliamentary classrooms consider. 11:09 a.m. (Follows Barani). The resolution continues to state that gender balance has been pursued on the outgoing boards... and, in point (c) of the operative part, that the selection of candidates, in particular the presidents and the managing directors, is carried out on the basis of merit... and that the gender balance in all the different functions is ensured. But do we do our industrial policy with gender balance? Is it possible for Parliament to concentrate in a resolution only on gender balance, without saying that perhaps we had excellence among the administrators, who made the railways great, so much so that everywhere they say that we have had a renewal envied by the whole of Europe? We know who was the protagonist, who was then sent to administer Leonardo, until he took over with his leg tense the judiciary and took him out of the way. Industrial policy is being made by prosecutors. When we have good administrators, they "follow" us and just a warranty notice or a conviction at first instance, as happened to Moretti, and we don't have them anymore. This is how we replace them with managing directors and presidents, who perhaps make a short-sighted industrial policy, which does not look at competitiveness and development and we close in the national territory, without having the ability to attack foreign and international markets. Colleagues, when we had the crisis with India or Egypt they immediately replaced us with the French and when we had the crisis with Russia they immediately replaced us with the Germans. The Franco-German axis really exists and is colonizing also the Italian participants, because at the top of these societies we send men and women who may be pro-French and have been advisors to Presidents of the French Republic. This creates, in our participants, a tendency to a French colonization of the national territory. Mine is, therefore, a severe criticism, which leads us to say that we need courage. I take the example of the Italian Railway Network (RFI), a company that is building railways around the world thanks to our high technology, which at a certain time has to stop procurement, for the need to evaluate them carefully, because otherwise you run the risk of a prosecutor inquisiting it. So let us move forward with an industrial policy, which some people claim does not exist: it obviously does not exist, because we are all terrified of the "Holy Inquisition." By now the politics of the Government and industrial policy and of the participants in Italy makes her the "Holy Inquisition." We cannot therefore be superficial in analyzing the development of these societies in recent years; we need to look even more at the results obtained, especially from a prospective perspective. In fact, we are talking about companies acting in strategic sectors, resulting in a significant impact on the entire national economy and also on public debt. In fact, we must go and invest in foreign countries, bring resources to Italy and create jobs and not vice versa. To do this it is not enough to analyse the budgets, which are certainly the fundamental documents, but which talk about what has been, rather than what will be. In fact, it is the future that we are concerned about, especially in view of the circumstance that sees the summits of our participating in the deadline and therefore will have to be renewed. There is also a need for transparency, which goes hand in hand with the others and is essential: it is certain that having at the top of our participants a Maradona or a Pelé, to quote some football players of the past, is much better than having jugs. We must put at the top of the participants of the capable and not recommended people or of the area, as we have always done in recent years. We must return to the vision we had perhaps in the First Republic, in which we actually looked forward to the future, and we were the fifth economic power in the world. We were not considered "straccioni" as we are now considered. The future, ladies and gentlemen, is getting closer every day, but above all faster. From this consideration comes what I believe is an obvious need for innovation at all levels, from industrial plants to managerial strategies. We need to keep up with the times, so that we can stand up with a strong competitiveness in the international context, starting with the European one that still sees us suffering a significant gap compared to other Member States of the Union. I am talking about France, Germany and Spain, all of which have surpassed us by far because we still have the locks at our feet. We must first think about defending ourselves, as doctors do with defensive medicine, and then think about development. For this to happen, a certain selection of candidates who will be called to lead or to be a member of the board of directors is essential. If it is possible to guarantee gender balance well come, but if that is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, if we have two female players, let's put those two to play. We must not worry about saying in the resolutions that, however, what is important is gender balance. The Enel, for example, has a female president and a CEO, Starace, of male: it is going well; there we have succeeded; elsewhere it is not possible, and then you have to try to change. These are choices that the Government is called upon to make without being able to disregard rigidly meritorious criteria. We need a Government that is not a reserve: not a Gregary Government, but a Titular Government, that knows also in these fields relaunch the economic, employment and industrial development of the country. That is why we declare our abstention vote on a resolution that must have more courage and that should give us future prospects. We know those past ones, and we spread a pitiful veil. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u40	GIROTTO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, especially citizens, we are closing the barn when the oxen have already escaped. I think you all know the meaning of this expression: we're intervening ex post later. It makes little sense and this debate is certainly not effective; it should have been held sooner. However, I immediately declare our vote in favour of the motion for a resolution which has been carefully taken care of - I must say - by President Cucchetti, on whom the 10th The Commission has found full support, having been voted unanimously, even though we think we could have improved it further. We are, however, talking about games, so what I would like to focus on is the government's contradictory behavior in relation to the indications presented by Parliament. The appointments were made and almost concluded also on the boards of directors of the companies, and instead we had to deal with the topic before the deposit, by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, at the offices of ENAV, Enel, Leonardo, Poste italiani, of the lists for the renewal of the respective social organs, as we had urged. Similarly, given the government's inability to listen to what was expressed by the 10th I believe that this debate in this House, which is not going to change appointments, because it is not possible, serves at least to clarify and to make it clear that the Government has not listened to its majority and Parliament in the management of this extremely important step because it serves to relaunch the country's industrial policy and, hopefully, to overcome even the levels of corruption and conflicts of interest that have reached unacceptable levels for many years. Among other things, on conflicts of interest we are still waiting for the implementation of a special law, which has always been promised by the majority party. We believe that no problem has been dealt with structurally; indeed, the Gentiloni Government has completely yielded to Renzi's needs to arrange his "court" of Florence in the societies that are the safes of the State, which manage billions of public money, simply to organize his electoral campaign. Our assessment of the appointment framework is very negative. There was nothing political about the choices. I mean, the government hasn't even listened to its majority. Minister Padoan should have kept his wrist still and not been paviourous. As the holder of the Treasury, which is the first shareholder of most of these participating companies, he should have rejected a mere partitioning logic. Instead he contributed and supported the operation to save the interests of the courtyard of Florence and, the most serious thing, he did it by modifying the rules at the last useful moment in order to be able to make nominabile those who have already been returned to judgment for banking usury, like Alessandro Profumo, former president of the Monte dei Paschi di Siena and now managing director of Leonardo SpA, and who risk to be shortly, for competition in international corruption for the alleged bribe in Nigeria, like Claudio Descalzi, confirmed to the guide of the ENI. We are still waiting for the answer to our question on these serious aspects and on this legislative change which has come to the very last useful moment. Not only that: as an M5S Group, we are waiting for the motion of individual distrust presented to Minister Padoan to be scheduled as soon as possible. So far I have voiced our criticism of this, but criticism is not just from us. We recall in fact the position taken on the appointment of Alessandro Profumo by the Bluebell partners fund, a London hedge fund that had already forced the Monte dei Paschi di Siena to a budgetary adjustment for the notorious derived Santorini. This reaction is in addition to that held a few days ago by the sovereign fund of Norway, the financial arm of the Central Bank of Oslo, Norges Bank, which has monitored its investment in Leonardo SpA. The explanatory statement is linked to unacceptable risks - as the fund defines them - whether society contributes or is responsible for serious corruption. Leonardo SpA, of which the fund controls 1'1,53%, is in the scope of the ethics committee that directs the investment choices of the sovereign fund for alleged episodes of corruption. This yellow card has also been raised for the ENI, of which the fund is third shareholder with 1.72 percent, and Saipem, the fourth shareholder with 1.68 percent, for cases of alleged corruption in Nigeria and Algeria. In short, dear members of the government you have also passed the method of the infamous manual Cencelli of the DC, where at least the appointments were redistributed on the basis of the consents of the different political components. Renzi, on the other hand, pushed you beyond any limit in a process of excessive centralization of power. More than a scraper! 11:25 a.m. (Follows GIROTTO). On the other hand, if in the real world economic and industrial concentration proceeds on all sectors, from agriculture to logistics, from agriculture to large organized distributions, how can a certain policy be expected to do otherwise? Be careful, however, because this centralization of power the majority of Italians have already rejected it during the referendum on the Constitution, which precisely involved a centralization of power; be careful, because we live in a country in which we still feel the need to participate in the choices and to be indignant towards those who want to impose them. Colleagues, we very much appreciated the work carried out in the 10th Commission, from which several reflections have emerged. We have had a better understanding of the size of these societies and the importance of decisions on the choice of candidates in the economic and industrial policies that companies influence. The content of the report accompanying the motion for a resolution clearly indicates that this is not just a matter of appointments, as the subject is broader and more complex. We are talking about strategic interests for the nation and societies that play important roles in the national and international economy in many areas, such as space, energy, transport and more. Of course, we are talking about employment. In addition, let me also talk about the issue of the generous compensation of directors who, for a matter of social and ethical justice, would have to go without short deadlines. Politics should set an example. The moral question is not an optional one, but it is fundamental. Those who are called to lead such important societies should, too, set an example and policy should at least impose it on them. Finally, we have also observed carefully the dividends, easily reachable in some companies thanks to the prevalence and standardization of regulated activities, which favour capital no longer Italian, but owned by international funds that affect the strategic political choices of our country. In short, we strongly fear that this round of appointments will not lead to any change. The intervention of the representative of the Government, Deputy Minister Morando, did not enthuse the Assembly and not even the majority. In any case, what's the point of this intervention, since we'll talk about it at the next round in several years? The games here have already been played. Let us therefore be prepared to vote in favour of it, a vote which, from what I have heard so far, will be almost unanimously, a resolution which indicates precisely the rules and principles which, let us remember, Minister Padoan has not respected. This is sufficient reason to continue the work in the Chamber immediately with the discussion of the motion of individual distrust that the 5 Star Movement has presented to Minister Padoan, requesting his resignation. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u43	PELINO (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the report of the Commission for Industry, Commerce and Tourism is the result of an analysis of the various economic and market aspects of the main participating companies of the State. This is an appropriate deepening, because we are dealing with the so-called family jewels - ENI, Enel, Leonardo, Terna, Poste italiani and Fincantieri - which have very important business, revenues and capitalizations, which are around 130 billion euros at current values. Let us remember that some of the most important companies in the industrial and service sectors are in public hands, controlled directly by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, that is by the Deposit and Loan Fund (controlled by the MEF). The total value in public hands today is approximately €35 billion, for the companies examined in this report, a non-decisive figure for the reduction of the debt stock, which has settled above €2,200 billion. If all the shares in the public hands of the companies mentioned were sold, which at the moment is not even conceivable, the debt would be reduced by only 1.6%. To give a further concrete example, even if we sold the entire share of Fincantieri in public hands, equal to 71.64 percent - without considering the social and strategic implications - to current prices, which estimate a capitalization of 1.600 million euros, we would get 1,100 million euros for the leading shipbuilding company. This figure is less than one third of what was required to be found with the spring labour force in order to correct the government budget deficit of 2017. Even if we reason on the sale of further shares and public holdings, we would not get a visible result on the decline in the total amount of debt. Among other things, the Commission's work has also well reasoned on the overall return of value for shareholders, in particular for the State shareholder, during these years. As a result of the measurement of these values, it may not be convenient to sell shares, where the return, in terms of dividends and increase in the value of the share, was lower than the value of the reduction in the burden on the public debt, to which the sold share was destined. Here was made the example of the further sale of a quota of Italian Post. It would not be appropriate and could have a negative impact on the universal mail delivery service, just as it would not be fair to unpack activities. So this is not the way to reduce debt, certainly not to current stock exchange values. Of the companies mentioned above, both the economic accounts and the balance sheets of recent years have been examined by the Commission's work. Let us remember that the economic sectors in which companies with public participation are compared, analysed and of which they are authentic market leaders, are very delicate and strategic, in aspects that concern the markets and that affect the tariffs and services, basic for both the citizens, and for the fabric of the enterprises. We are talking about the main suppliers of fuel, energy infrastructure, energy, postal services, banking and insurance. We also refer to companies operating in the field of aerospace, defence and safety, shipbuilding, to which particular attention should be paid for the particularity of products created and marketed on the world markets. Let's not forget that even on the appointments of the corporate leaders has weighed an important moral issue, which has seen, for example, the appointment as president of Leonardo (already Finmeccanica), which has a very delicate core business, of the former head of the police and former head of security services. The work of the hearings and the collection and analysis of the dossiers produced by the six authentic champions of the Italian economy focused both on the level of revenues and profits, and on the creation of values for shareholders, precisely because the State, directly or indirectly, holds the majority control. It was therefore an evaluation of the performance of a management super parts. The conclusions referring to the Assembly of the Senate, which can be binding on the next choices of the Government, at the head of which is the power to appoint the corporate leadership. And well done, precisely, the report of the 10th Commission to highlight the positive aspects, but also the negative aspects, which led to the access of those companies to the regulated market. The sale of shares also involved an assessment of the benefits obtained so far and a further assessment of any favors (or, on the contrary, of the subtractions of value), which could be obtained from a further transfer of shares by the State. Sometimes you can agree to keep actions rather than giving up additional packages. Compared to Mother IRI's time, much has changed. At the time, they took decoction companies and carried them under the protective wing of a state which, in addition to being a regulator, became itself a producer. Today, if we exclude, in the banking field, the Monte dei Paschi case and, in the industrial one, that of the ILVA, few are the sectors in which the State has been forced to put money in order to repair the errors of the management of the private ones. Now the companies of which the State is shareholder generate revenues and produce profits such as to put in field, as said, also appraisals on the convenience or not regarding ulterior cessions of shares. The problem of the reduction of the stock of public debt certainly does not go primarily through further privatisations, because these affect, in some cases, the "zero comma" on the overall pillar of the sum of the state deficits. It goes through, as desirable, a serious path of adjustment of the public accounts, leading to a primary budgetary surplus, fundamental to start the downward path of the total debt of the general government. A path that from year to year, unfortunately, is postponed through the presentation of always new public finance objectives, woefully to the decrease compared to the previous programmatic estimates. But we know that this is an inescapable path. And it is the only one that can lead to a gradual, permanent and substantial reduction in interest expenditure, which, together with current public expenditure still to be reduced, takes away space from investment expenditure. And therefore it is absolutely necessary to bring back in the real economy - of whom investments make them profit and multiply them - the financial resources today distracted for other purposes. The resolution, therefore, clearly identifies the points on which the public shareholder must assert its position of strength, taking into account that it is not the flattening of compensation to directors the priority of Parliament, nor must it be that of the Government, as well as the presence of a correlation between these and the creation of further value, compared to the date of establishment in the corporate roles. Another focus that we have appreciated is that on gender balance within the social offices. The hope I can make as an entrepreneur and representative of the female gender is that the number of executive positions covered by women will increase. Women are doing well now and, as a rule, they also carry in themselves that requirement of good repute which is fundamental for those who run a company, especially if it is a company with public participation, which carries out a collective interest. In short, a balanced report and requests to the Government that see the favorable vote also of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u46	Mr Tomaselli (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the almost unanimous agreement with which the Senate Assembly will approve in a few moments, even with the Democratic Party's vote in favour, this resolution, after the unanimity we have agreed in 10a. Commission, I believe this is a sign of the attention that Parliament has wished to place on the very complex issue of the governance of the main public participating companies, which represent not only a significant part of the public heritage and the presence of the State in the economy, with significant repercussions also from the point of view of the state budget, but also - as some colleagues and in particular Senator Uras have recalled - a decisive, extraordinary and strategic asset of industrial policies in our country. Industrial policies for which the appeal has come from several parts, which we share, to be relaunched with a strong public presence of direction and also of industrial and corporate participation. These societies - which I do not call, but which colleagues well know - are among the main actors in the areas of their competence, not only in our country, but also in the global challenge, which sees some of these societies being among the most significant actors of international competition. Companies that are changing skin, that are redefining their industrial mission and that represent, in some respects, also a pride for our country. All this we have got to verify in the examination of the assigned deal in 10a We have already done so last year and we have repeated it this year and I would like to thank Mr Cucchetti for the work he has done. In the report annexed to the resolution there are also the most significant data, which give a sense of how this significant sector of the national economy, which is involved in its state-owned government companies, is changing. We are talking about Enel, which is increasingly redefining its core business, from companies that over the years and decades have ensured electrification in our country but with a concentration in particular on the production deriving from the fossil economy and that are increasingly becoming one of the largest global players in the renewable sector and, in our country and in Europe, in one of the most significant companies engaged on the frontier of services, starting with distribution, with this new challenge to bring fibre throughout the country. Not to mention the ENI, which has been recalled several times, perhaps the Italian company participated by the State that more than others has internationalized its industrial presence. Today talking about ENI means talking about one of the biggest players in the energy sector at global level and one of the largest international companies: today most of the revenues and the presence of ENI occur in the world rather than in Italy. To go further, there is Leonardo, between lights and shadows. It is a company that has started a financial recovery that can no longer be postponed, given the gravity of the debt that had been accumulated in the past years. The previous administration, which goes beyond itself, has certainly led to positive results, which we see both in the balance sheet indices, and in the stock exchange listing of this important national company. But we cannot hide the shadows, which derive from a redefinition of the industrial presence of Leonardo (already Finmeccanica) in our country, with segments of productive capacity that have been sacrificed and cut, with sacrifices that have been called many of the companies of the former Finmeccanica induced, today Leonardo, and with territories that are in suffering. Lights and shadows that I hope will be better balanced in the next management, recovering Leonardo's industrial presence globally. In this case too, it is a company that competes in the globalization of this sensitive sector, ranging from security to defence. It is desirable that it also recovers an important industrial presence, because around the themes of security, defence, space and airspace there is a decisive piece of our country's competitive capacity, which brings together the industrial and research sectors. We are not talking about Poste italiani, a significant and decisive company, which we have known in its traditional aspect over the years, but which is redefining its industrial mission increasingly towards the so-called digital economy. I mean, in the work we did, we discussed this too. I recall these aspects, because the theme was how to build the governance of these state-owned companies and how the process of evaluating previous governance and building new ones must be transparent and with shared methodologies. We have done all this and we have been able to do it because we had before us - as we would have said once, but I believe that the expression is still valid - really national champions present in the economy of our country and in the global economy. That is why I want to welcome the broad consensus that will be reached in this House, a map of good work and a challenge that has been overcome with transparency, in a fruitful relationship between Parliament and the Government, a government that has wanted to make its prerogatives available to Parliament, in the name of transparency and also of the need for control that came from Parliament itself. We have done so by redefining in the resolution some criteria which the Government then adopted. It is no coincidence that the favourable opinion with which the resolution was adopted in the Commission and with which it will be adopted shortly here in this House is a confirmation of a willingness, as some of my colleagues say unfortunately, to say something out of tune with this extraordinary harmony that has been desired on this subject today, also here, to consume. These criteria include an assessment of previous directors based on merit and linked to industrial and financial performance and which may be the road to start a reformulation and redefinition of governance. I believe it will be time to say whether the Government, through the Ministry of Economy, has done good or bad to indicate some confirmations and to propose some new figures of the governance of these societies. This is obviously not the subject of our debate today. I believe that, as Senator Uras said, it is not only a right, but also a duty of a responsible and transparent policy of the Government, at the moment when it faces these choices, to make them assume responsibility and respond to them before the country and Parliament. This government and the previous government have intended to accept the stimuli that have come from Parliament so that the criteria of transparency and objectivity are as clear and linear as possible. From this point of view, we are pleased with the work we have done, whose salient points I do not repeat because they are widely referred to by several colleagues, including Senator Cucchetti himself, in the report. I conclude by saying that the Group of the Party of European Socialists voted in favour of the resolution, confirming that this is an issue that we will find in the coming months and years. We are in a phase in which clear signs of exit from a very long and dramatic crisis that our country has experienced. From this crisis comes a country certainly weaker, but you can already see the conditions for this escape from the crisis to be solid. It seems to me that, from this point of view, an important and decisive role has played, in past years, this part of the national economy that belongs to the societies participated from the State and we think that even more, in the coming years, a solid presence of the State in the economy, in the sectors that I have recalled, from the energy to the distribution, the drugs, the postal sector and the saving, the field of the transports, the space, the defence and the safety, can be guarantee of a more effective escape from the crisis and of a more solid resumption of our Country. If this happens under the banner of an ever more transparent governance of societies, more and more open to confrontation with the country and if it happens in an increasingly fruitful relationship between Parliament and Government, I think it is a good way to go and if this is possible it is also thanks to the work that the Senate brings to conclusion today. For these reasons, I repeat, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of the resolution. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u47	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Scientifico - Guido Castelnuovo - Florence, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u49	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u50	Gasparri (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, of course I welcome the work done by President Cucchetti and also the substantial significance of the speech made by Senator Pelino on behalf of our Group. I would have no other opportunity, however, in view of the matter, except the vote of abstention, to point out the following: an account is the theories that the Commission and the Senate develop in the matter of appointments, management of certain companies and groups (and in this sense the resolution is adopted and is affected by the competence of Senator Mucchetti, whom I have experienced in sometimes positive critical terms even in his previous lives of authoritative journalist), other concrete aspects. I am referring to the fact that the current and the latest governments have managed these criteria for appointments in a questionable way. We set out an address for the future, but then Profumo is investigated in certain respects and appointed for certain others, the lawyers of the foundation of the Secretary of the Democratic Party monopolize appointments in some entities. My abstention points to my disagreement with the concrete exercise of the power of nomination by the Democratic Party and the current Government, which is in total contrast to the just and wise criteria that the Commission and the Senate indicate and that we hope will be respected in the future, but for the present they have not been. Not to mention the groups, such as the Enel, which managed the emergency in Abruzzo, leaving entire areas days and days without light: launched on the world markets, they forget the electricity current in the Italian villages. So, I disagree with the management of some groups and the management of the government of some appointments. This was an opportunity to express this dissent and I did so, using the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause from Senators Mandelli and Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u52	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u53	ISGRO CHOLIPOTI' (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, I too am speaking to declare my abstention vote. I agree perfectly with Senator Gasparri's thoughts. For this reason, the vote will be one abstention vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u54	Before we proceed to the vote, I would remind you that the agenda will be put to the vote after the 10th resolution. Standing Committee. SANTANGELO (M5S). We call for the vote on document XXIV, No 73, and on agendas to be taken by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of document XXIV, No 73. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1, presented by Senators Orellana and Bencini. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. We shall now proceed to the vote on the G2 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u57	FORNARO (Art. 1-MDP). Mr President, on behalf of all the Senators of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would ask Mrs De Petris to be able to sign this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u58	Senator De Petris has indicated that she will accept your request. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the G2 agenda, tabled by Senator De Petris and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u59	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-05-11-LEG17-Senato-sed-821.ana.u60	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday 16 May, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 11.54 p.m.
