ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:38 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr SAGGESE, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u3	I would warn you that qualified votes can be taken in the course of today's sitting by electronic means. Therefore, from this moment the period of 20 minutes from the notice provided for in Article 119, paragraph 1, of the Regulation (9.41 hours) begins.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law Nos. 2801, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of the Mantero and others deputies; Locatelli and others; Murer and others; Roccella and others; Nicchi and others; Binetti and others; Carloni and others; Miotto and others; Nizzi and others; Fucci and others; Calabro and Binetti; Brignone and others; Iori and others; Marzano; Marazziti and others; Giordano Silvia and others, 5, 13, 87, 177, 443, 485 and 1973. I would remind you that yesterday's sitting concluded the examination of the articles of draft law No 2801, in the text approved by the House of Deputies, and of the amendments tabled to them.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u7	REPETTI (Misto-IPL). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not deny that I am particularly excited today for the adoption of this law, which was so awaited by the Italians and for which Parliament's delay was now unjustified. This moment must be devoted first and foremost to all those who have begged us to approve this law; some of them are no longer aware of it, others are living a very difficult time in their lives. But I promised myself that if we had come to this vow, I would have remembered in particular a person on behalf of all, a man who deeply loved life, who taught us all to fight with all strength for life but also taught us to accept death as its natural conclusion. And in fact, among his great battles, there was that for a law on the end of life, so that the delicate passage between life and death was the most dignified, the most natural and least suffering possible. The man I want to remember here today, on behalf of everyone, and I want to thank him, was Umberto Veronesi. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]] I shall conclude, President, but I also acknowledge the merit of the Democratic Party, which, thanks also to the stubbornness of its secretary Renzi, has allowed us to bring home laws of civilizations such as civil unions and bio-testament. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]] But, out of intellectual honesty, I would like to thank all those - also you, President - who have allowed the adoption of this law that is so important, of great humanity and that will certainly make our country more civilized. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u10	Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, almost nine years ago we were on these same ranks to adopt a deliberate, elaborated, meditated and voted by many of us who are now in an adverse position. That law, unfortunately blocked in the right of arrival, introduced in our order the pre-emptive declarations of treatment, regulated informed consent, opposed the therapeutic bitterness, taking care to fix some cornerstones: that one could not reconstruct ex post the will of a person relying on labile traces, arrogant in fact the right to establish that there are lives worthy of being lived and lives that are not; that there remained an open opening, always, for the therapeutic alliance between doctor and patient, in order to prevent that in the face of changed conditions a person can remain bound to previous choices in the name of a deterministic claim that would impose five-year plans on the human body; that, finally, hydration and nutrition were not considered therapies. A therapy is in fact such if it cures a pathology and I would like to know from you, colleagues, what are the diseases that are cured through hydration and nutrition. I would like to know if a patient who is suspended from feeding water and food dies from his condition or dies of hunger and thirst. [[Comments of Senator Manconi]] I don't think there can be any doubt about that. Mr Manconi (PD). It's not water and food, Quagliariello! Mr Quagliarello (FL-Id-PL, PLI)). I wanted to recall that day almost nine years ago, not for the taste of amarcord, but to immediately clear the field from what, to make reference to a very popular term in this period, is to all intents and purposes a fake news. It has been said, in fact, that we would be opposed to any law that would allow a person to express his/her will for the future on the treatment to be received in the event of an inability to understand and want. Mr President, that is not the case. And in view of the risk of a judicial roulette entrusting to the ideological orientation of the courts the decision on life or death, it was no longer so for many who in the past had felt that there was no need to legislate on this matter. The fact is that we are not discussing a law on biological will in this House today. What the Senate is about to approve has been defined not by Quagliariello, Giovanardi, Gasparri, Rizzotti, Centinario, Sacconi or others, but by personalities on diametrically opposed positions, the Italian way to euthanasia. And the Italian way to euthanasia will have our firm dissent today, with unfortunately insufficient numbers, and it will have it tomorrow, when a new Parliament will see the relationship of force overturned and a centre-right majority will immediately shelter the three great twists of which you are taking heavy responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. For starters, the law under consideration makes the statements of those who write now basically binding. These are not written indications for an indeterminate future, to be entrusted to the science and conscience of one's physician according to scientific evolutions, to the precepts of Hippocrates and to that therapeutic alliance that knows how to discern the human afflate of the present that escapes mysterious to the claim of planning, but of provisions marked in focus against which the doctor is not even allowed the minimum option of conscientious objection. Colleagues, beyond the clearly illiberal character of such a norm, it serves an ideological reflection that does not take into account, for example, a reality that knows well anyone who has had a loved one affected by a degenerative disease. The point is that the course of these pathologies is often very long and, when you come to find yourself in the state of inability to understand and want, it is very likely that the possibilities made available to medical science are very different from those that the patient has been able to evaluate when drawing up his will. Can all of this be relegated to mere superstructure of which only a very labile account can be taken in the name of the fatal presumption of being able to determine everything? Then there is a second practical aspect that can have huge implications. In fact, it will not be enough a patch clumsily inserted in the budget law to heal a vulnus that opens uncontrollable and unpredictable scenarios and, to want to see it with optimism, will make this law substantially unenforceable. The recording, storage, accessibility and processing of data have in fact been left in absolute and total chaos. In a country where we are concerned about protecting citizens from the intrusiveness of leaflets in the mailbox, there is no guarantee in terms of privacy about the end of its existence. And above all, after turning doctors into state bureaucrats in charge of the will execution, the absence of a single national register of DATs will impose on the ill-capitulated health workers struggling with patients who are unconscious a sort of treasure hunt in search of any lost statements. Added to all this is an even more surreal fact: in order to dispose of the will on therapeutic treatments, the law does not provide for any discussion with the doctor to ensure that they are drawn up on the basis of an informed consent, nor is it provided for a verification of the fact that the registrant is at that moment in full consciousness. If, however, after having signed the biological will under conditions of complete anarchy, it is decided to revoke it or even to modify it, the presence of a doctor and two witnesses is imposed. We're not crazy, colleagues. We're way past that. Finally, we come to the aspect that more than any other configures this law as the Italian way to euthanasia. A good law on biological will should in fact serve to allow citizens the exercise of the freedom of care even in a state of inability and to avoid any senseless therapeutic aggression. However, this text not only does not prevent therapeutic aggression at all because it is based on absolute self-determination at the expense of the role of the doctor, but it goes far beyond the confines of freedom of care, allowing euthanasic practice of suspension of hydration and nutrition. And, as already mentioned, depriving a person of hydration and nutrition does not let him die of his own disease, but leads to death by hunger and thirst. Even minors do not escape from this drift: the combination of ambiguity and regulatory rigidity opens the way to ten, one hundred cases Charlie Gard also in our country. I shall conclude, Mr President. The twists of this law stem from a fundamental error, which contrasts with liberalism and the common sense of people before even with ethical and religious principles. The mistake is the fatal presumption of being able to decide that there are unworthy lives to be lived, and to be able to determine when they are worthy and when they are unworthy. And the point is that this mistake is no less serious when dealing with one's own life. Regardless of the dimension of faith, no person who truly believes in freedom can think of knowing the future before experiencing it. No one knows what the death of a parent is before they have suffered this loss; no one knows what the birth of a child is before they have gone through this joy. In the same way, no one can know what will live at the end of their existence. It is the essence of the mystery - if you prefer it, secularly, of the wonder of life - that does not forbid to formulate indications, but should not recommend the idea of caging with apodittic dispositions a future that is and must remain open, not only for believers, but for all free men. For these reasons, I am voting against the Federation of Freedom Group. [[Applause from the FL Group (Id-PL, PLI) and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u13	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, in a few hours you will be able to tell the Italians that you have brought home a good measure by a large majority (it was now, you have taken a legislature to do so). Finally the Christmas miracle, the miracle of the end of the legislature. You had to choose between the biotestament and the ius soli - surely you, President, would have been happier if you had chosen the ius soli - and you chose the most dangerous one, colleagues, in the face of all the appeals and strikes of hunger. Speaking of hunger strike, tell Delrio that alone will not be done; we risk that this gentleman at Christmas does not eat and we risk having him on our conscience [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] Tell Senator Manconi, too. Put your heart in peace. A harmful legislature, the XVII, which has seen some certainties of our society destroyed. A legislature that, instead of thinking of the 5 million Italians under the poverty line, the decline in births, unemployment, pensions, the security of our borders and our roads, the 170,000 young Italians who leave our country every year, has taken care to dismantle or tried to dismantle the hinges of our society. Short divorce: Today it is easier to destroy a family than to change phone company, thanks to you. Cirinna reads: with this law everything is family, nothing is family. CIRINNA' (PD). And thank goodness! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). All the rights of families, but not the duties of heterosexual couples... CIRINNA' (PD). Go, go! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Thank you, partner. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] . Jobs act: all more and more precarious. The stable work, the one that allows young people to ask for a mortgage and create a family (what you do not like), is now a chimera. The 900,000 more jobs Renzi talks about are - say we - 900,000 underpaid slaves. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group Comments from the PD Group]] Enough with those verses, it's like you're at the zoo. [[Applause from Senator Rizzotti. Comments of Senator Dalla Zuanna]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u14	Continue, Senator Centinario, but try not to provoke reactions.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u15	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Mr President, I am not trying, I am speaking. I ask for the floor and I speak, seeing and considering that - instead - we have had dumb people throughout the parliamentary term, who only know how to blabber. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Baby bonus: from 80 to 40 euros per month. There is no birth policy at all, ladies and gentlemen, there are those outsiders and illegals who are going to pay us pensions. [[Applause from Senator Candiani.]] Illegal immigration: thanks to the Renzi-Alfano couple, 700,000 fake refugees stand in our streets. Then there were the attempts to destroy the State: the mess of the Provinces; the electoral reform of Madame Boschi, which was to be the most beautiful reform in the world, sent back to the sender; the constitutional reform, which had to remove the right to vote to the Italians (Mama mia, see the face of Renzi after December 4 last year was really the most beautiful Christmas gift that the Italians gave us)! [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] Not to mention the proposals that remain there, such as the liberalisation of cannabis, with which we should all have become addicts, or ius solo. Returning to today, Mr President, our vote will be against, not because we are against a law on this matter, but because we are against this mess. This law is the antechamber of euthanasia. You know, Mr President, what confirms this? We received confirmation yesterday, when you declared unacceptable all the amendments calling for an explicit condemnation of euthanasia. Every time there was the word "euthanasia" you did not let us talk about the subject, because it is contained in this provision. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] We are opposed because you consider artificial nutrition and hydration health treatment. Eating and drinking cannot be considered health treatments: they are right and not therapies. You want people to starve and thirsty, we don't. We are against this because the provisions are binding on doctors. We are in favour of the freedom and professionalism of doctors: yes - we have proposed it in so many amendments - no provisions. For us, the medical-patient relationship is fundamental. For us doctors must be instruments of life, for you instruments of death. We are opposed because DAT for minors are incomprehensible and shameful. To understand what we are saying, I invite you to listen again to Senator Bignami's speech yesterday, a mother who, like many others, is concerned about what you are voting for. Mr. President, we don't want cases like Charlie Gard's in our country. We want to avoid Mr. Renzi writing yet another tweet or post on this subject, and then, in a cowardly way, having his senators vote on a measure that goes in that direction. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group. Comments of Senator Cociancich]] The conscientious objection for doctors and facilities disappears. Doctors and hospitals want to keep saving people. They don't want to be your accomplices. Why not? Because you trampled on all international conventions - all the senators who spoke yesterday told you - including those signed by our country. Go abroad to subscribe to international conventions, to fill your mouths and become great and - then - return to Italy and those same conventions torn apart. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] In these days the Minister of Health has never come to the Chamber. CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Shame! Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). This was to be discussed with the Minister sitting - indeed, nailed - in the Chamber. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] The minister had to be here to confront us. But he never came to this House. Maybe because he's embarrassed? Maybe because in a few months you have to go and ask the Catholic circles and the pro-life associations that are listening to us? You will have to go and beg the votes and perhaps say that you were not an accomplice, because you were not present in the Chamber? He was supposed to be there, but he wasn't there! What can I say, Mr. President? Vote for this law: it is your law! We had said this: it was legislation that we would never be able to change by a single comma. To all those who in these days told us that we were pessimistic because we said that a comma would not be changed and you would not change a comma, we say: "Have you seen it?" We were not owls: we are people who attend this Parliament, they know the rules and also those of politics. A measure brought to this House at the end of the parliamentary term, when the credits are now running, is a measure taken or left, and therefore any proposed amendment has been rejected. We did not have the hope that any of our amendments would be adopted: ours was just a testimony to make it clear to those who are out of here that we are not against a law, but we want something totally different. We wanted a law of civilization. So, President, vote on this bill: the North League will never be your accomplice. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u16	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the representatives of the Association Luca Coscioni, whose representatives are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u19	MAZZONI (ALA). Mr President, it is certainly just a coincidence that, while the Senate was discussing the biological will, a dramatic hearing took place yesterday in a courtroom on the subject of DJ Fabo. It was called "the audience of agony," celebrated in a surreal silence, when the interview of "Le Hyene" was transmitted in which Fabiano Antoniani, blind and tetraplegic, said a simple and raw thing: I will go away with a smile, because I live in pain. Marco Cappato is now on trial for that assisted death in a Swiss clinic. Well, I believe that the vision of those images and that tragic testimony are worth much more than the rivers of words spent in this House, including the passionate and high arguments of Senator Romano, to explain that what we are discussing is a law of civilization, a necessary law. People suffering from terrible suffering, with irreversible diseases, have the right to choose how to die; it is a fundamental human right and we should apologise to them for the delay with which politics and Parliament have intervened on this subject. [[Applause from the ALA Group]] Many countries have already legalized the early treatment arrangements, which allow you to refuse unwanted medical interventions even when you are unconscious. Here, this law will also allow in Italy to leave provisions not to die in unwanted ways. Moreover, even in Italy for many years there have been doctors who treat terminal patients by practicing deep sedation and suspending the diet. When and whether to do terminal sedation usually decides the doctor, without any therapeutic alliance with the patient who is no longer able to decide, and often in agreement with family members who no longer bear to see their loved one suffer hopelessly. What we are talking about here is therefore a very sensitive subject from an ethical and legal point of view. However, I am convinced that legally regulating end-of-life choices increases the spaces of freedom both for those who want to be kept alive for as long as possible and for those who intend to self-determine in the opposite way. Without a law governing it, this crucial issue is left to the mercy of contingent situations and decisions taken in any case outside the will of the sick person. In the long and tormented debate that accompanied the iter of this bill those who oppose the anticipated provisions of treatment have tried to stick to the Constitution. But our Constitution explicitly recognizes the principle of consent and the corresponding right to refuse treatment, even if it is necessary to balance the patient's freedom with the reasons of medical science in relation to the appropriateness of a given treatment. In this sense I believe it was right to consider artificial nutrition and hydration as health treatments, which are such in that they respond to certain protocols inserted entirely within a medical practice, and this is the orientation not only of the most authoritative scientific literature, but also of the associations of doctors specialized in the practice of artificial nutrition and hydration. Just as I am convinced that the medical-patient therapeutic alliance can never be more important than my will and my freedom or that the doctor must have a predominant role in relation to my will and my freedom, because self-determination is the core, the very meaning of the human person. This is, in fact, a law of freedom that has found a point of balance certainly perfectible, but precious, because it has managed to settle the normative presuppositions with the legitimate instances of personal freedom emerged over the years as a result of the advances of science, and at the same time stripped this dramatic phenomenon of hypocrisies and disguises. It is a step neither too short to be useless nor too long to make us slip towards euthanasia and assisted suicide. Moreover, this is a law that does not impose obligations, since no one is forced to subscribe to DAT - a responsible and burdensome choice, all the more so if taken now for later - but sets at least some principles, first of all the formal legitimacy of the waiver of all forms of therapeutic aggressiveness through the interruption of extraordinary or disproportionate medical procedures compared to the expected results. And it finally puts a limit to the dramatic stone banquet that has hardly ever been mentioned in this debate: suffering, the pain that therapeutic aggression adds and inflicts on bodies already exhausted by terrible diseases. This is not how we want to bring death: we accept that we cannot prevent it. What I have just mentioned is paragraph 2278 of the catechism of the Catholic Church inserted in the chapter dedicated explicitly to euthanasia. In the following, it is also stated that a therapy aimed at alleviating the sufferings of the dying person, even at the risk of shortening his days, can be morally consistent with human dignity, if death is not wanted either as an end or as a means, but is only foreseen and tolerated as inevitable. That is why I believe that the measure we are adopting goes in exactly this direction. Of course, there are problems, first of all the contradiction contained in article 1, paragraph 6, for which the patient cannot demand medical treatment contrary to professional ethics and, therefore, against such requests the doctor has no professional obligations. Putting professional ethics as a limit to a constitutionally sanctioned right is a mistake that could cause infinite disputes. And also the bureaucratic outrage that DATs must be written with authentic private writing and delivered personally could be avoided, as is the case in Germany for example. But this is, of course, also a law of compromise and some ambiguity does not affect its character as permissive and non-impressive legislation, woven with a secular and liberal spirit. The biological testament, in conclusion, fills the fracture of the subsequent inability of the individual to make conscious choices about his life and therefore represents the pivotal instrument of the autonomy of the person: another significant step forward in the wake of civil rights. [[Applause from the ALA Group and Senator De Biasi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u22	DIRINDIN (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, at last! Finally, an extremely important law has been awaited for so long and for so many people; a measure which - as has rarely happened in this parliamentary term, let me say - can be considered of a good quality. I say this for two reasons: the first is for the subject that deals with and the second for the quality of the text. It deals with a subject which, in my opinion, qualifies the production of the 17th legislature with a rule that intervenes on a major, sensitive subject which concerns today's society, modern society, thus enabling Parliament to perform its role as a modern national political representation at its best. The second reason is the quality of the text. In a context which - as we have said in this House on several occasions - has been characterized too often by the proliferation of massive, disorganic and not immediately understandable legislative production, this measure seems clear to us, balanced - as far as it can be - and essential. It is a pity to hear such unserious statements, because they are merely instrumental and prejudiced, by those who have rarely raised doubts about far more complicated and obscure rules than this. The delicacy of the subject would have required a more careful use of the words and I hope that at least this morning certain terms will not be used which, unfortunately, I have already heard in the first speeches. I would like to make a more careful use of the words and, on the other hand, we have heard some sinister effects; we have heard the use of alarmist words; we have even heard of the euthanasic era, as if it were acceptable for a representative in Parliament to speak in order to make a different law appear than it is. It is a sign that there are no other arguments and perhaps it is also a little sign of intellectual dishonesty. Instead, this rule does not deal with euthanasia. Speaking of euthanasia is, at least, a sign of poor honesty when it comes to this bill. To accept, instead, the limits of the human condition; to choose not to prevent, under certain conditions, from recognizing that death is the natural end of a person's life, is profoundly different from shortening life, shortening life or, even, bringing about death. Euthanasia is another thing. Here we speak of the right to renounce the use of disproportionate medical procedures and without reasonable hope of positive outcome.I quote the words of the synopsis of the catechism of the Catholic Church, for those who still have doubts belonging to that faith. Fortunately, this rule deals with an issue that can no longer be postponed, because the increasing therapeutic capacity of modern medicine allows today - which was not so twenty, thirty, forty years ago, although the Constitution had already written it - to prolong life even under conditions that were once absolutely unthinkable. And this is certainly good, because it is the progress of medicine. But the new technologies, which allow more and more effective interventions on the human body, require - as a great man said, Cardinal Carlo Maria Martini - a supplement of wisdom not to prolong the treatments when they no longer benefit the person. It's necessary. It is not easy to be wise in a law. The important thing, however, is that one recognizes that the will of the sick cannot be overlooked. This is the essential thing: recognize the possibility of informed refusal of treatment, when deemed disproportionate by the patient. It is a possibility - and I address it to all those who know what the consequences are - and those who do not want to exercise this right may not always do so, but they must recognize the freedom of others to do so. It's a possibility, it's not an obligation. Everyone remains free to exercise this power, as the Constitution also says. The Constitution already stated that no one can be obliged to a certain health treatment unless provided for by law. I shall now turn to the substance of the measure, and I would like to make a quick comment on just a few points, to point out that - in our opinion - this is a good law. I would like to stress one aspect that has not been sufficiently highlighted in the debate: the succession of the issues covered by the draft law. The law does not depart from the provisions of advance processing, but from the informed consent, in Article 1. Pain therapy followed and, then, early treatment arrangements. No treatment may be initiated or continued if the patient has no free and informed consent. That is why informed consent is regulated, so that it is not merely a bureaucratic matter - as unfortunately too often, and even today we realize that it is - and an indiscriminate appeal to a form to be filled out. The specialized literature specifies that the formation of a genuine informed consent always presupposes the simultaneous presence of at least four elements: the provision of information (must be present), the understanding by those who receive the information of the same, the decision-making freedom of the patient and its decision-making ability. The second point concerns pain therapy. I believe that it is part of the experience of many of us that it is difficult to know or assist people who feel the deepest tiredness that can result from a long chronic and crippling illness; who perceive the growing dependence on others as increasingly difficult to bear; who fear having to endure further suffering related to the disease. And if this is the experience of all of us, I am amazed at the attitude of many people who - I dare say with great respect - seem to be poorly human. Above all, however, in the face of these situations, the first duty of a health system worthy of a civil country is to guarantee to the sick every intervention able to alleviate their suffering, always, even in the case of refusal and withdrawal of consent to the treatment - as the norm says - including deep sedation, which must be motivated and noted in the clinical record. Nothing exciting, everything very balanced: this is the challenge that the norm does not avoid, but instead takes on and tries to discipline. Of course, there's no resources, but not for the records. Forgive me, but it makes me almost smile to think that the only problem is to finance the computer tools to make records, when the fundamental problem is the human and professional capital that must implement the law. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP-LEU, Mixed and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE)]] I would also like to stress what is written in Article 1: The time of communication is - for informed consent - between doctor and patient constitutes a time of treatment. This is an important statement which, for the first time, is made in the law that we are about to vote on, which I hope will have important implementation consequences. It is a pity, however, that once again, when it comes to health care, operators are asked to deal with new and old problems with the clause on the invariance of resources. I hope that sooner or later the day will come when, as legislators, we will be ashamed to say that everything can be done at no cost. The choice of the person can be said to be actually free only if health professionals can create that climate of trust that they often know how to create; if they know how to live, as often fortunately happens, the experience of care from the point of view not only of performance and professional, but also of human. What the law provides can then actually be implemented. On the contrary, we have heard in this House a paternalistic medicine that belongs to the past and is certainly not a sign of modernity; it is not the doctor who has to choose for the patient - one reads and writes this for a long time - but it is the patient who has to ask or, however, must be able to get from the doctor and other health care professionals all the information that can enable him to choose for himself in an informed and free manner. And doctors are aware that there is never a single response to patients' problems; they are increasingly aware of the limitations of medicine and the need to share them with patients. This is the path towards which modern health systems and civil societies are developing. Thus evokeing paternalistic medicine again is old. If we consider ourselves innovators, we learn to make progress. If anything, the problem is to make professionals acquire a mindset capable of dealing with these uncertainties, without denying them, but communicating them, even with professionalism, to patients. And perhaps this is also the most authentic way to create a relationship of care and it is also what - as some say - even gives back to those who provide assistance the meaning of its work. I should like to conclude by making a comment. It is astonishing that it is precisely from those who are always ready to claim the freedom of choice of the health consumer - I use a term that I do not like, but that is used - that today a fierce opinion has been expressed contrary to the freedom of the person. I wonder whether freedom is only valid when it comes to choosing between a public and a private structure or even when it comes to choosing whether or not to be treated under certain conditions. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP-LEU, Mixed and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE)]] It is another opportunity that someone has lost to show that one must be consistent when talking about the dignity of people, even in this area. The challenge now is to implement this law: it will not be easy to give you proper and full implementation. I believe, however, that we must all work to ensure that we can observe what is happening on the ground and make the leap of cultural innovation that we all need. No law is perfect. And when I made a good judgment, I didn't mean that it is. Sure, it takes improvement, but it's a good law. That is why we in Article 1 - Democratic and Progressive-Free Movement and Equal will vote firmly in favour of this law. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP-LEU, PD, Mixed, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u25	D'Ambrosio Lettieri (GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI, SA)). Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, I have already spoken in general debate on this measure and I have listened very carefully to all - and I repeat all - the speeches that have taken place, including those which illustrate the proposed amendments. Let me express a thought of great regret. I would have liked this House not to betray its own functions: it is in the Senate that the most important act of legislative action is celebrated, that is, the comparison and the possibility of consolidating the convictions. I very much regret the silence of the majority political forces. I regret very much that I have not heard any objections to the punctual, polite - and convincing, for me - assessments made in the illustration of the amendments by those who do not share the thought of those who have a different conviction, so that I myself could develop a different assessment from that which unfortunately, even for serious and guilty silences here, sees confirmed my position of opposition to this bill. I am unfortunately aware of the dark times of politics - a policy of the announcement, which almost never sees the thoughts and statements made with the assessments and expressions of vote reunited, perhaps to put a flag on the chessboard of a clumsy program - has determined from its beginning this XVII legislature, perhaps also for a mysterious and worrying cabalist influence: we have started badly and we end worse. The subjects of suffering and the complex issues of individual sensitivities deserved a completely different approach; they deserved a rapporteur in this House and that the assessments proposed in the numerous hearings held in the 12th Commission would find the basis for developing an overall assessment, which would allow us to take a step forward and also to me, who do not have a preliminary position on this draft law, to vote in favour, with the necessary correction points. And instead take it or leave it: the text is that of the Chamber and you must do it quickly and badly, because you have to hand over to the country a law that allows you to make the headlines in the newspapers. That's not how it's gonna go, and that's not how it's supposed to go. We should have initially taken care to understand how and how much Law No 38 of 15 March 2010, which we voted unanimously in this House in the last parliamentary term, has been reflected on a territorial level in terms of homogeneity and punctual compliance with its commendable, useful, modern and necessary points of progress on palliative care and pain therapy. But in this provision I have read a modest, sloppy and contradictory reference. We had to intervene with a measure that would avoid all forms of therapeutic aggression and the risk of abandonment; that would prevail the principle of proportionality of treatments and treatments; that would introduce the ethically noble principle of accompaniment to the conclusion of earthly experience in a solidarity logic, which is firmly based on the primary relationship between the doctor and the patient, in which the doctor cannot renounce the principles of his autonomy, his ethical and operational responsibility, and the patient must be stronger in the awareness of his rights and in the solemn maintenance of his prerogatives and his autonomy. We slipped upside down. We give the country a bad law, because the principle of making the law prevailed as long as it is, and then the courtrooms will be filled with a flood of appeals. But you have to make the law because you have to bring home a flag that will be the first to fail Italians, because it is a disvalue, because it offends the sensibilities of individuals, because it delivers or risks delivering our society to a serious form of nihilism, in which the primacy of the individual prevails over the collegiality of a society. We have passed from the declaration to the disposition, determining - I would say - the original sin of the entire normative system, that is, an objection of false conscience, because in fact there is no conscientious objection at the head of the doctor. Yesterday, in the illustration of the amendments, we talked about the ballet around the bed of the dying person, waiting to understand whether the family members can decide in a collegial way, or whether only one family member or family member must ensure that the patient's dispositions are fulfilled at the end of life, with a series of questions about who decides; with what sensitivity family members agree; with the risk that it will develop within the family group understood in an extended way (so including the cohabitant or cohabitant) a series of discrasies and contradictions. Compared to the national register, I want to see how the Senate Assembly will approve the amendment currently being evaluated in the House. Meanwhile, having to resort to the support of the Chamber with another bill to compensate for one of the many vulnus present here seems to me already the map of litmusol of a measure clumsy and altogether negative for the relapses that it will have. But can EUR 5 million be sufficient for the implementation of the national register? The other issue concerns hydration, nutrition and deep sedation: I believe they represent a sort of seal of guarantee of a path oriented to death and not to the culture of respect for life, which is a non-negotiable asset. For these reasons, in a strictly secular interpretation, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the Group of Independents and Freedoms expresses its negative assessment and therefore declares the vote against this bad bill that is not good for the country and its democracy. [[Applause from the GAL Group (DI, GS, PPI, RI, SA) and Senator Giovanardi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u26	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Parisian Institute Pius XII of Rome who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u29	PALERMO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, this is a very important measure with which to close a legislature of rights. Despite all the difficulties it encountered, it was, of course, a parliamentary term that was characterized by the promotion of fundamental rights. And we know how difficult it is in our country, as we have unfortunately also felt in the debate that accompanied the adoption of the measure under consideration. However, it counts the result and today we come to approve a fundamental and widely necessary law for society. There have been many criticisms - I would say instrumental - of the measure. In fact, the bill at our examination, for the most part, confirms and specifies what already exists in living and positive law, and in particular what exists on the basis of the constitutional jurisprudence of legitimacy and merit and in accordance with the code of medical ethics and the Oviedo Convention that Italy has ratified. We know, however, that without ratification, the Oviedo Convention is not yet part of our system and we hope that the implementation of this measure will finally push the Government to take that small step that is still necessary. Shakespeareously makes a lot of noise for nothing. And this is a very typical attitude, unfortunately, of those who accept quietly the things that happen, as long as you do not talk about it and do not see it, and then tends to oppose the moment when it is the source proper to the regulation of rights, that is, the law, to finally regulate a right and the exercise of the same. It is typical of an at least contradictory attitude. What confirms this law, in particular, that already exists in the order? Above all, it confirms the informed consent that the Constitutional Court - as I recall - has defined the real right of the person since 2008 and is also provided by the code of ethics, Article 35, and by the Oviedo Convention itself. Those who criticize this law - we have heard it repeatedly in the debate - actually argue, with reference to informed consent, that this would reduce the doctor to a mere executor of the patient's will, but the reality is not at all like that. The informed consent is a path of encounter between the responsibility of the doctor and the patient's will. The doctor in a first phase illustrates the situation and then evaluates, together with the patient, the consistency between the patient's will and the doctor's proposals. On this, among other things, the draft law in question takes up the code of ethics and - as has already been mentioned - Article 1 very appropriately provides that "the time of communication (...) constitutes a time of care". And, therefore, it allows a good step forward from this point of view. In any case, since many have evoked euthanasia or even a culture of death, it must be remembered - in order to put the dots on the i - that, in the presence of an illegitimate request, as is still euthanasia in the Italian order, or in the presence of a request not supported by scientific results - think of the case Statamine and everything else - the autonomy of the doctor prevails and not the will of the patient and, therefore, there is no automatism in the role of the doctor himself. The same is true of the other criticism that has often been made during our debate about the possibility of rejecting artificial nutrition and hydration. These are also treatments the contents of which have been defined by the case law since 1990 and, therefore, we are not inventing anything new. It is interesting to see that those who criticize the draft law under consideration very much criticize judicial activism in the matter of the end of life, but oppose a law that, in fact, should reduce such activism. What, then, is new in the bill under consideration? There are the early provisions of treatment, that is the so-called biological will. It too, however, is at least indirectly covered by both the code of ethics and the Oviedo Convention: both state, in fact, that the doctor must take into account what the patient has expressed. The bill in this case clarifies some still dubious situations and some problems with respect to an institution that could already be defined as "semi-existing" in our system. There is, however, one fundamental aspect which has been overlooked very much in our debate. I am referring to the fact that attention has focused on the anticipated provisions of treatment, which, in countries where they exist, concern a still minority part of the population, between 20 and 25 percent, according to experts. By now, however, in developed countries such as Italy, about 85% of deaths are not sudden and, therefore, we can plan the treatment, the various stages of the same and also their suspension, together and not against the doctor. Article 5 of the draft law provides for the basic institution of shared care planning, which is a fundamental aspect, also because it affects many more people than anticipated treatment arrangements. And even this programming in practice is already done, especially in some regions and centres: extending it and getting it out of the regulatory dilemma can only improve the quality of the relationship between doctor and patient. The doctrine - I think of an essay by Professor Casonato, member of the National Committee for Bioethics, but also to others - has evidenced that there are of course points that can be improved in the bill and the hope is that they can be improved in the future, after the law has begun to work: in particular, it is possible to process perhaps a little too much the procedure for the anticipated dispositions of treatment and, wanting to provide many guarantees, risks to bureaucratize a little such process. Then there are some formulas that remain vague and risk producing litigation, although we must not forget that part of the litigation is absolutely inherent in the same nature of this matter. In conclusion, the fundamental value of this law - and I quote Senator Manconi's words, spoken a few days ago in this House, which I find very important - is to remove this issue from the darkness and everything that is illegal to it when such a sensitive issue is not regulated. This is the greater value of the measure, rather than the innovations it brings that are not so great - as I have tried to demonstrate - than what already exists in the order. And that is why it is also necessary to thank - and I am glad that they are here - the representatives of the association Coscioni for the cultural contribution they are giving in this sense, it is in fact a problem of culture: to understand that it is important to regulate the problems with the instrument proper to the protection of rights, that is the law. This bill strengthens the therapeutic alliance and it is in everyone's interest to do so. With this bill, the medical-patient therapeutic alliance will work better, because it guarantees the right of care as long as it can be exercised and in more cooperative and more human ways. And this is also because, when the therapeutic alliance, on the other hand, does not work - plausible hypothesis, even if it is always hoped that it does not happen - it cannot constitutionally prevail that the right to self-determination of the patient prevails. It is constitutionally obliged to do so. [[Applause from Senators Buemi, Bell, Ichino and Repetti]] So it is above all those who fight in the name of the therapeutic alliance that should appreciate the bill at our examination, which helps such an alliance. This bill brings normative clarity, helps doctors and can above all help improve the lives of the sick and - no less important - the culture of rights. For these reasons, the Group for Autonomies, PSI-MAIE announces its vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE and Mixed.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u30	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u32	AELLO (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I have already spoken in general debate and have listened to the various speeches that have followed. I also took note - especially in the evaluation and vote on the amendments - of the absolute refusal to evaluate many of the amendments that we had signed together with our Parent Company, Senator Bianconi, and Senator Formigoni, who we thought were very important and who would have allowed us to make a contribution - as far as we are concerned absolutely improving - to this law which - we repeat - in the light of the debate and the votes, we continue to consider unfair, ideological and highly objectionable. We have also listened to the guidelines, following the discussion in this House of thousands of amendments, and above all the definitive approach of the DATs as provisions of a cultural presumption which it considers possible to measure the reality a priori when it becomes more urgent, namely in suffering and pain. We have listened to interpretations and explanations on sensitive issues such as diet and artificial hydration which, for us, remain at least imaginative, precisely because we believe that the principle of appropriateness should apply: if nutrition and hydration appear appropriate to the clinical state of the patient, they do not constitute aggressiveness and cannot be suspended. Instead, in the bill at our examination, we basically start from the consideration that artificial nutrition and hydration can be a real therapy and therefore, as such, can be suspended. This is a real abuse as far as we are concerned, an unjustifiable, regrettable act. Mr President, when we then hear interpretations of the medical-patient treatment report, namely the therapeutic alliance, at least amene, we really have nothing but to define this measure on contradictory DATs. We should remind everyone, especially those in this House and those who performed during the general debate and the examination of the amendments in bizarre and bizarre declarations to respect obnoxious ideologies which, even before becoming senators of the Republic, have taken an oath in favour of the culture of life and not death. Above all, we would like to remind them that, even when the prognosis would be unfavorable, but one is in the presence of suffering and sharpness, medicine has the means not to abandon the field. Deontology and a sense of humanity require that every effort be intensified. If there really had been a need for new legislation, then we would have wanted to contribute. In fact, it does not seem appropriate to determine all the choices in an a priori way, without always and in any case evaluating the situation in which we find ourselves and without taking into account also the scientific assessments made by the doctors who care in the concrete case. So, if there had indeed been a need for regulatory adjustments, we would have wanted to discuss rules relating to taking care of the patient, making concrete facts follow the proclamations of principle. Instead, the DATs, in our opinion, increase the distance and the detachment from suffering, from the people who need closeness, so that they do not feel a burden and feel forced, despite them, to recognize extreme choices. As far as we are concerned, the House of Deputies has drawn up and transmitted to the Senate a regulatory system that mainly directs us to pull the plug, a system that, among other things, dumps responsibility on the doctor. Therefore, we are in the presence of a system that will also take away from the doctor the insurance cover, if it will keep a conduct oriented to the good of the patient instead of mere obedience. It is no coincidence that Article 2, after recalling to paragraph 1 the palliative care and law n. 38 of 2010, which facilitates access to palliative care especially for the incurable, recalls, at the last period, in association with the therapy of pain, the use of deep palliative sedation. This means - also here we would like to be denied - that to insert the continuous deep sedation between palliative care makes concrete the danger of the elimination of a net line of boundary between pain therapy and active euthanasia. Mr President, in the light of all this, we have considered this and we have also endeavoured, by tabling improved amendments, to make our contribution and not to say no tout court, in an initialistic way. When the law came from the House, we gathered and reasoned with the Group and we came to the conclusion that on such delicate issues it was not necessary to get to actual authorized application excesses. We have seen, in the course of these days, since the beginning of the debate, a media pressure that has only been concerned with exalting the limited cases, in order to help achieve the result, but know that the DAT, as they are and will be approved, are neither a gesture of humanity, nor a compassionate act, but instead pose a serious discussion on the scientific and professional mission of those who have the responsibility to ensure therapy and treatment, that is, the doctors and the health system in its entirety. We continue to strongly believe that those who have the responsibility for therapy and treatment have the duty not to surrender to death and must transmit to their patient hope, trust and above all desire to fight to the end. He must remain the guarantor of the patient's life and freedom. Here you are approving a regulation that places in clear contrast doctor and patient, with the impossibility of conscientious objection; in this way the doctor would become mere executioner of will, perhaps not shared. There are too many shadows in this standard. There are no different levels of dignity in human existence. The culture of life must be pursued at all costs: as far as we are concerned, it remains our polar star, and not that of having at all costs the great haste to ensure the right to die before having done everything possible to ensure the right to live. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group]] Some people in this House may think otherwise than we do, but to think differently does not mean to be surprised, it does not mean to criticize in an a priori way those who, besides thinking differently, have humanitarian explanations in regulating a rule. So, for all that has been said, we are voting against this measure, not forcefully. [[Applause from the AP-CpE-NCD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u35	PETRAGLIA (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, we have finally reached a very important moment in the history of this legislature and also of our country. After years of commitment, struggle and suffering of many and many, we have come to the approval of a law that recognizes the right to choose, not to undergo therapeutic aggression on one's already suffering body. We are not passing a law for euthanasia: this is a law that speaks of self-determination, of the relationship of care and trust between doctor and patient, of an equal relationship. It is a law that speaks of information to the patient, consent, nutrition and hydration, recognized as health treatments, finally, but also of decision-making autonomy. This law speaks of the right to refuse treatment and the right to revoke refusal. Important words, words that weigh and have enormous value, so high that they cannot be dragged into built political polemics with an electoral character. Ours today is a courageous and complex choice: we must be aware of it because we are talking together about the right to health, ethics, the dignity of life and the dignity of illness. When you make politics, you try to assert your reasons in the confrontation, but above all you try to represent the citizens and make choices shared with the country. Sometimes, the reasons we have to support are stronger if it is those who live daily the suffering of the disease, just those citizens who are waiting for our choices, waiting for years of Parliament's vote. 10:54 a.m. (Followed by PETRAGLIA). Today is an important day, expected by so many, by millions of citizens, who together with us over the years have tried to say that we must do so soon. Then I will use words not mine. These are words that we could all be forced to say if we were in the same living conditions. I will use the words of Michele Gesualdi, a Catholic, one of the children of Barbiana - how far away from me as a cultural formation - and sick of ALS. Michele Gesualdi wrote a little while ago an appeal to the Presidents of the Senate and the Chamber, to the Heads of the Senate; an appeal that in a single month has collected over 108,000 signatures, which his daughter Sandra - who is here in the gallery and whom we thank - handed over to the President of the Senate. Michele Gesualdi authorized me to read his words: Today I am writing to beg you to speed up the approval of the law on the biological will, with the early declaration of the sick person's will, because for three years I have been affected by the degenerative disease ALS and some symptoms tell me that the passage to the unknown world may not be far away. ALS is a scary disease, irreversible and incurable at the moment. Advance, removing a piece of yourself day after day: the movements of the muscles of the tongue and throat that completely remove the word and swallowing, the muscles for the articulation of the legs and arms, those for the movement of the head and breathing and all the others. In the end it remains a rigid skeleton, as if it had been immersed in a cement casting. Only the brain is kept very lucid together with its windows, that is the eyes, which can communicate light and shadows, suffering, regret for the mistakes made in life, joy and gratitude for the affection and care of those around you. If I accepted the two invasive interventions, I would find myself a plaster skeleton with two tubes, one stuck in the throat with an air compressor attached to move the lungs and one in the stomach, through which to inject food puppies. As far as I'm concerned, in a very lucid way I decided to refuse any unnecessary invasive intervention and I wrote my decision, asking my wife to show it to the doctors to respect my will. When my wife and children saw me reduced to a skeleton due to the difficulty of swallowing, they begged me to accept at least the stomach surgery to be artificially fed, because it would be a gift even one more day that I stayed with them. This put me in a crisis and I gave in, even to repay them a little bit. To what has been done, I confirm all the reasons for my refusals, which consist in the fact that they are not curative interventions, but only aimed at delaying by a few days or weeks the irreparable, which for the sick means only prolonging suffering in a painful and hopeless way. For ALS patients, death is certain and can be atrocious if it comes by suffocation. Some claim that rejecting invasive interventions is an offense to God who has given us life. Life is certainly the most precious gift that God has given us and must always be well lived and never wasted. However, accepting the martyrdom of the sick person's body when there is no hope of healing or improvement can be perceived as a challenge to God. He calls you with very clear signals and we respond by challenging him, as if he were better than him, by martyring the body of the creature he is calling, even knowing that it is a martyrdom without outlets. Personally, I live these interventions as if they were useless torture of the sentenced to death before execution. Like all terminally ill people, in the last 100 meters of their journey they pray a lot to their God and sometimes it seems that silence becomes a voice and tells you: You are right, the offenses to me are others, among them the wars and social injustices perpetuated to the detriment of humanity. Those who love me can fight them with concrete political, social, trade union, school and solidarity choices. In front of these words remains a great serenity that takes away your desire to cry and scream. All you have left is anguish for the people you love and love you. When my wife learned that, in case of a respiratory crisis during the night, she has no choice but to call 118 and that the on-board doctor or the first aid doctor may refuse to respect the patient's will and proceed to invasive interventions, she was desperate and told me: "If you have a strong crisis at night, I can't lock you in my room and watch you die in silence. It would be a threefold drama for me, tremendously alone in the face of tragedy, not being able to respond to your desire, even if suffered by me and children, and the immense pain of losing you." For all these reasons, they are begging you to fall into similar dramas and help alleviate them by speeding up the law on biological will. It is not a question of favoring euthanasia, but only of leaving the interested person free lucid, conscious and aware of having reached the final stage, of choosing not to be unnecessarily tortured and of removing from the anguish his family members, who do not wish to betray the will of their loved one. The rapid approval of the law would be an act of respect and civilization that does not impose, but helps and does not leave so many people and their families alone. These are the words of Michele Gesualdi. I would just add that today, with the bill under consideration, we deal not with how we die, but with how to give dignity to the last part of one, a hundred, a thousand lives: that of Gesualdi, mine, yours, thousands of other people. By voting in favour of the measure today we make a great choice of freedom and not death. Above all, we speak of secularism, because only this is the way to protect everyone, believers and not. The Left-Italian component - Left Ecology Freedom of the Mixed Group will vote in favour of the measure, which is precisely a law of all. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE. A lot of congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u38	TAVERNA (M5S). Madam President, I would like to thank my colleague for bringing these words to this House. Excuse me a little bit of a concussion, but I think that's really what brought us here today. I begin my speech by quoting the Oviedo Convention, which states that an intervention in the field of health can only be carried out after the person concerned has given free and informed consent. The person shall first receive adequate information on the purpose and nature of the intervention and its consequences and risks. The person concerned may, at any time, freely withdraw his consent. The wishes previously expressed regarding medical intervention by a patient who, at the time of surgery, is unable to express his/her will will be taken into account. The Convention was approved in 1997 and has been issued in order to guide the laws of the acceding countries; to date, very few countries have failed to regulate informed consent and the so-called biological will. I have heard in this House these days that this issue cannot be discussed because it is a divided issue. However, in the House the measure was approved by 326 votes in favour, while those against were only 37; moreover, according to all the polls, 80% of Italians are in favour. I have also heard in this House that the time is not ripe for this measure. Well, the first draft law on this subject dates back thirty-three years, to the signature of the then deputy Loris Fortuna; since then it has always been discussed and in every successive legislature numerous draft laws have been presented. Moreover, the Senate Act 2801 is the result of the unification of several legislative proposals, the first of which, in 2013 (and it is a pride for me today to say so), is of the 5 Star Movement and bears the first signature of Congressman Mantero. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] However, before we go into the substance of this measure, I would like to say what you do not do. In response to those who in recent months have tried to leverage the strategy of terror by talking about euthanasia and assisted suicide, I have a duty to inform them that this measure has nothing to do with euthanasia or assisted suicide. The draft law that we are preparing to vote on, instead, finally also in Italy, addresses the issue of informed consent, of the anticipated provisions of treatment and of the shared planning of care, recognizing the right of the person to self-determination. I do not understand why part of this House is so afraid of the fact that a person can only express his or her will and see it as a right. I am appalled to think that there are still people who have had the power to blackmail and maintain, for two seats, people in inhumane conditions. At the heart of the measure is the informed consent, the will of the person. It was chosen to start with informed consent and the treatment report, thus framing the theme of the early treatment arrangements (DAT) within a comprehensive reasoning on the medical-patient relationship. Putting the therapeutic relationship at the centre means being aware that you cure the person and not the disease, a person who has a history, affective relationships, convictions and has expectations, hopes and abilities different from anyone else. Respect for the patient and his uniqueness implies respect for his choices: this is what paragraph 2 of article 1. The bureaucratic compilation of the form, which is now more to protect the doctor than the patient, is not enough; it takes time and in the provision we insert the prediction that the time for consent is time for treatment. Already Article 32 of the Constitution states that no one can be obliged to a certain health treatment except by law. Therefore, it is a consolidated acquisition that for each health treatment the informed consent of the person entitled is necessary. If consent is necessary, then the refusal is legitimate and the withdrawal of consent is also legitimate. This law is, at the same time, a historical fact for our country and an act that transposes the prevailing jurisprudence and good medical practice. First of all, this makes it possible to fill a huge legal vacuum which, although filled by the judge, has meant that everyone could not talk about the right to which it is due, since it inevitably is subject to the sensitivity of the doctor and the judge. Secondly, it will avoid the need for a judge to apply the law in question, with all the positive consequences in terms of deflation of litigation and economic savings. When informed consent is given, the recognition of the anticipated provisions is a logical consequence: if individual will detect when it is fully capable, when capacity fails, one cannot operate as if it had not been manifested. The early provisions of treatment are therefore the instrument that will guard and ferry that will in the future. It is clear that the legislation in question is also careful to prepare those cautious in cases where that will should be unreasonable at the time of its update, because it is inconsistent, or afferent to different clinical conditions or because in the meantime new therapies have occurred. In all these cases, indeed, doctors and trustees together may decide otherwise. It has also been said that DATs are mandatory. I would like to clear the field from this fake news (since this term is so fashionable). DATs are an act of maximum voluntarity and spontaneity that will be written only by those who consider it appropriate, and with the same voluntarity and spontaneity can at any time be modified or revoked. Finally, an ad hoc rule also regulates the shared planning of treatments that can be carried out in the context of the medical-patient relationship, in the case of a chronic or disabling disease or with unstoppable evolution with inauspicious prognosis, precisely to plan the treatments together for the case where self-determination is lacking. And here we also take the key role that this law has intended to give to the doctor, despite what I have heard in recent hours from some of my colleagues. The values of humanization of the care and dignity of the final phase of life are promoted, introducing the principle of the doctor's abstention from any unreasonable obstinacy and from the use of unnecessary or disproportionate treatments (therapeutic harassment), and also providing for the use of continuous deep palliative sedation. These are treatments that are already practised by the vast majority of health facilities in cases where they need to be. It is therefore a question of ensuring that even on such dramatic moments of human existence there can be no unequal treatment for all sorts of reasons. This, ultimately, is one of those cases in which failure to intervene by the legislator has only caused so much confusion and uncertainty that, in the painful fraction of life in which it fits, they resolve in a serious prejudice to patients and in a serious burden for healthcare professionals. There are issues for which the legislator cannot continue to postpone indefinitely, issues for which he must take responsibility, abandon ideological prejudices and put the dignity of individuals at the centre. Today is the day of responsibility. A day when this Parliament of this aberrant legislature will be able to take back the credit and pride of having handed over a page of civilization to its country. For all these reasons, the 5 Star Movement Group will vote in favour of this measure. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed SI-SEL Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u41	Zuffada (FI-PdL XVII). Madam President, first of all, I would like to anticipate that the vote by Forza Italia on this draft law will be a negative vote, without any misunderstandings. But, at the same time, I want to announce, with deep conviction, the decision to leave freedom of conscience and, therefore, to vote for every Senator of Forza Italia. Forza Italia is a great party that, since its foundation, has had the ambition to represent different political positions and stories, which have made the history of this country, all equally worthy and important. Therefore, there could not be any preconceived position on a bill that has the undoubted merit of addressing for the first time a complex, difficult and terrible topic: that of the end of life, freedom of care, the right to choose, under certain conditions, how and when to put an end to one's existence. It was right, on the contrary, to deepen, to confront, to improve the many critical aspects. It is clear - and in the debate both in the Commission and in this House has been stressed several times - that this measure has been badly written, has several shadows, dubious and very questionable elements. With a totally secular and responsible approach, we have done everything possible to improve the text and we have proposed several changes, never prejudiced; reasonable proposals, which certainly did not have the will to lower the measure, but which intervened on those errors and ambiguities that we are all aware of. I would just like to briefly mention some of our requests, the most significant ones, which have already been widely stressed by my fellow Senators of Forza Italia during the general discussion. The first thing we thought essential was to respect the freedom and deep conviction of those doctors who do not feel to accompany a person to death, allowing them, in an explicit and clearly linked to this provision, conscientious objection, a right that we feel on the same level as that of those who chose to refuse therapeutic behavior. On this point, I believe, we can measure the profound difference between those who recognize and respect the rights of choice of anyone, even those who have a different vision from their own and those who, on the contrary, rely on the law and the State to define moral rules to which everyone must submit. Among those who, secular and liberal, believe deeply in the primacy of freedom and self-determination and those who rely on the capable arms of the ethical state. Safeguarding personal freedom not to be obliged to work against one's deepest convictions (ethical, human, religious) in cases involving people's lives and death would have been important. In addition to the possibility of explicitly foreseeing conscientious objection, I would like to point out other proposals which we had made and which seem to me to be profoundly right and reasonable, regardless of what we think about the measure in its entirety. The first is that the DAT, in order to be valid, should have been renewed after a certain period. I imagine with horror the possibility, even for one case, that a person must be condemned to die for a decision made years and years before and that it has not been changed (for carelessness, ignorance, lightness, because it is never thought that it can happen to us, because there is always time to remember to change your DAT) with the change of your own conviction. We are talking about the difference between life and death; that this difference is entrusted to a bureaucratic document, valid forever, except for a specific revocation, seems irresponsible to me. How can one fail to understand that the vision of one's own life, of one's own suffering, of one's own death can change with the change of life, of age, of what we have around us, of what we live day after day? That the idea of prolonged suffering can be considered unbearable at twenty years of age and that, instead, at an advanced age, every day more life, in whatever condition, can be considered a blessing? It sufficed to foresee, as we had asked in one of our amendments, that after a certain period of time the declaration should be confirmed: a simple amendment to the law that would guarantee the highest possible adherence between the DAT and our real will. The second point is so obvious and obvious to everyone in this House that I am embarrassed without having to identify it. We have asked - we and many others, for the truth - for a national register of statements to be established. It is useless for me to dwell on how indispensable it was to create a situation of certainty and equal treatment, and to avoid that we can be faced with chaotic situations, absurd bureaucratic paradoxes, regions that collect the DAT in the electronic file and others that do not, differences of ease of access between Municipality and Municipality. There was nothing to do: lack of covers, we were told. At the same time, however, the other branch of Parliament is debating a budget law in which the cost of establishing this national register has been included. That, of course, proves, by giving us reason, that it was indispensable. And so we are faced with a paradox: the register must be there, as the budget law shows, but it is not there, because there is no trace of it in this text. We will shortly be voting on a law in which there is a very important part missing, but perhaps there is another law. Why and who can exclude that from the vote of the Assembly to the House, or from the second passage to the Senate, this forecast of the register disappears from the budget law, for one reason or another? So maybe he'll be there. It seems to me, I tell you clearly, madness, a piece of the theater of absurdity. Too bad we're talking about a law that intends to regulate the most terrible, the most private, the most dramatic of choices, the one between life and death. These are examples of reasonable changes, which did not in any way affect the ratio of the measure, but which would have made it easier to apply, clearer and more acceptable. I leave out, not for importance but because everything has been widely discussed during the general discussion, the events concerning hydration and artificial nutrition, the article concerning minors and inability and the preconstitutional will not to replace the term provision by the term declaration. In this rejection of the confrontation, of every possible improvement of a text full of errors, are the real reasons for our vote against, matured after careful reflection, with a rich internal confrontation, deepened and reached, as I said at the beginning, by majority. Yes, because a part of us will prefer to abstain, there are those who may be voting in favour, and there is someone, including our Parent, who regretted that, when examining this measure, we did not find the courage to take one more step, and to examine the question of the right to euthanasia, on which in recent years a deep debate has opened in the country in the wake of striking personal cases, last of which that of DJ Fabo. For this reason, having accepted the invitation of our Parent Company to make the explanation of vote for Forza Italia, I feel obliged to spend two more words to give space also to the reasons of those who do not feel perfectly represented by the vote against. The question of the end of life touches and has touched, I believe, many of us, in a dramatic way, obliging us to difficult and painful choices for which we have often taken full responsibility. I believe that this measure has at least three advantages, beyond, I repeat, of the considerable errors and omissions. The first is that, for the first time, Parliament and the country are dealing with a topic that is so far taboo: that of the possibility of choosing between a life that no longer recognizes itself as such and death. An attempt, although certainly not successful, to create indispensable ways and rules in a State that really wants to be secular and modern. The second concerns the recognition of how one's life and death, at least under certain conditions, are an individual responsibility and a choice that no one can afford to override. The third, finally, fills a legislative vacuum so far filled by judgments of the judiciary. These are important steps, which for some of us balance the many negative aspects of the measure. On one thing, however, I believe that the whole of the Forza Italia Group and many others in this House can agree, apart from individual assessments: unfortunately, this is a missed opportunity. A different attitude of the majority and greater willingness to dialogue could have led to a better law and shared by most political forces. On the other hand, a choice has been made which is the result of haste and superficiality and I am afraid - indeed, I am convinced - that this has happened for electoral reasons and not to face internal contradictions of the majority and of the Democratic Party itself. Too bad! Given the final result of the text proposed to us, I can only confirm the vote against on behalf of the Forza Italia Group. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]] 11:22 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u44	DE BIASI (PD). Mr President, the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this measure. It will do so together with a transversal majority, which does not follow the political majorities of this legislature. It is an important fact, because, on laws that concern freedom, we overcome that ethical bipolarism that many times in past years has prevented the production of a serious law on the end of life. This measure comes after a difficult and tortuous journey, which lasted many years, but which has been resolved - I mean - for the courage of so many people in here, of the Conference of Leaders and of the Presidency: allow me to thank everyone and, in particular, the commitment of our leader Luigi Zanda. [[Applause from the PD Groups and Art.1-MDP-LEU, and the Senators Berger and Repetti.]] For once, as far as freedom is concerned, this is not a prohibition measure, because it does not constitute an obligation, but it leaves people the freedom to decide, at an appropriate and early stage, that they do not want to undergo certain treatments. Why be afraid, then, that people choose? Why continue to rely on a paternalism that no longer has any sense of being, with changes in medicine? [[Applause from the PD Group and Art. 1-MDP-LEU.]] The medical-patient relationship, the relationship of care and the difficult and delicate relationship between fear and competence constitute that "asymmetry," as it has been defined, which is one of the central points of modernity. The last word, however, can only remain with the person concerned: we also owe it to the dignity of the doctor, a person who does not act independently of his conscience and competence, but adopts a healing relationship, in which respect for the person is the central ethical point of his ethics. When we talk about PEG (percutaneous endoscopic gastromy), why do we say that consent is necessary to do so, while there can be no realization of the early will for those who are unable to choose? This is the heart of artificial nutrition and hydration. Here is the point: the possibility to choose in advance, so that those terrible cases do not occur again. Peppino, we're with you again! [[Applause from the PD Groups and Art.1-MDP-LEU, and Senator Buemi.]] We are with Walter and all those who have fought and are no longer there, but they have done so by putting their lives in the middle, in order to be able to sanction freedom of choice. There is no race to die in this provision; on the contrary, there is respect, which is quite different. Conscience objection is certainly a moral judgment, but the theme is the technical and professional reasons, that is, the therapies that lengthen only the time that separates from the end of life, from the last phase of life. Sedation differs for procedures and outcomes from euthanasia, it is known if you want to follow modern medicine and science and not the Middle Ages. We have had Stamina in this House, and we have won on Stamina in our Commission, because, exactly as the law says, there has been a refusal of doctors and nurses to administer treatments contrary to ethics. I'm just saying that to make things clear. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] The therapy of pain tells us something very important: it recalls a fundamental law, which is Law No. 38 of 2010, an extraordinary law that says that suffering is not an inevitable destiny, that the right to death is not a right in itself, but an event of life that is inevitable, against any unreasonable obstinacy. There is talk of the right not to suffer, of the right to dignity in suffering, of the right not to be treated as guinea pigs, of the centrality of the person, of the respect for his privacy; death is a part, the last, of life. What we are talking about in this law is not the culture of death, but the culture of death, the culture of death and we cannot turn our heads on the other side. As much as we would like loved ones to be eternal and always be with us, we must be aware that we are not omnipotent, but that we can cure and accompany. I would like it to be clear that the palliative care, of which everything has been said here, has a wonderful derivation: the pallium, which is the cloak that lovingly is wrapped around the sick, the cloak of the cures both medical, and psychological, a very high concept, other than Italian way to euthanasia! [[Applause from the PD Group.]] When we talk about the treatment of pain and the rejection of any unreasonable obstinacy, we must also talk about the binding nature of these provisions, which recite the will of a person on himself, according to the constitutional dictation of Article 32. If it is certainly not the Italian way to euthanasia, however, there are many problems that bind this provision to the choice of the person and his dignity. There are technical problems, I think for example of the register; we can fix these problems, when we have a law, but if there is no law, nothing can be fixed: we would come back again in the dark and in the lack of consolation and response to the rights of the person. [[Applause from Senator Mattesini.]] Important things have been said and we will be right, but it is certain that the protection of minors and the incompetent is there, there are rights, there are regional registers, there are all those measures that will help the application of this law. In conclusion, I would like to read an important part of Professor Flick's speech when he was heard in our Commission: Of course, it remains the right of those who die and the duty of the State and those who are close to it (family or health care) to a path of assistance, of overcoming pain, of comfort, of solidarity, of palliative care against suffering, in short of dignity: whether he refuses therapeutic treatment or that of vital support; or (I would say above all) that he does not want or is no longer able to express that refusal, or did not want or could anticipate it with the provisions of the end of life. Each one dies alone; but this is neither good nor sufficient reason for others to leave him alone or increase his loneliness, when he closes his earthly page. We do not think in the same way, ladies and gentlemen, about everything, but I would also like to say thankfully, because we are laying down an important principle that is that of pluralism: different opinions that are secularly compared in a conscious Chamber and that is why we are opening today a page of history of dignity and humanity. That dignity which is the dignity of birth, the dignity of living and also the dignity of dying. A page of good politics, which we owe to all those who are not there and who are no longer there. It happened to each of us in his life: I will never forget my father's eyes and I think that we all had such an intimate and important moment, that he also made us discover our humanity. A page, therefore, of beautiful politics that I hope will mark the history of rights in this country. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed, Art.1-MDP-LEU and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE) and Senator Taverna.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u45	I greet, on behalf of the Assembly, the teachers, the students and the students of the Parish Bishops' Institute "Cardinale Innico Caracciolo" of Aversa, in the province of Caserta, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u47	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u48	ROMANO (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, every word is useless, because we had so much debate on this subject yesterday, perhaps not from the point of view of dialogue, because for several moments it was monologue. I was one of those people who totally agreed there was a law. I shared it at the beginning on an accompanying path. Unfortunately, I noticed that this accompanying process did not find the best solution. I did not use the words of emotionalism or ideology, I did not use the words of certainty and security. I didn't use the words of the other, but I used the expressions of the other. As a result, I tried to build a shared path that was based on a fundamental principle that I shared and realized throughout my pre-political life, namely that of an adversity to any treatment that is disproportionate or futile. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have not been able to answer these concerns and my questions. That principle of freedom, that principle of responsibility which characterizes all our actions, as a senator, without a mandate, dictates to me the moral obligation to vote against. Senators, President of the Senate, President Napolitano, I can't. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, Mixed, LAG (DI, GS, PPI, RI, SA) and FL (ID-PL, PLI).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u50	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u51	Carraro (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2006 and 2016, the substantial majority of Italian citizens, rejecting the proposals to amend the Constitution, expressed their support for bicameralism. It is a pity that in this parliamentary term two laws which, in any case, are thought to have a profound impact on the rights of people, have been, in fact, deepened only in one branch of Parliament: the one on civil unions here in the Senate, the one today in the Chamber of Deputies. I followed the debate and carefully considered the motives expressed by those who are against the measure and, in particular, in the speeches of my group's colleagues, whom I highly esteem, Rizzotti, Caliendo, Floris, Gasparri, Malan, Scilipoti Isgro' and Zuffada. However, I think that at this historical and cultural time, the draft law under consideration has more positive than negative aspects. I am confident that the combination of Article 8 and the attention of the public will ensure that the next Parliament will bring to law the changes that its implementation would highlight as necessary. In respect of the majority of my Group, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which I am bound by a common political vision and friendship, which has been consolidated in this very troubled parliamentary term, I shall not be taking part in the vote on this measure. [[Applause from Senators Caliendo and Sciascia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u53	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u54	AMORUSO (ALA). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are about to close a parliamentary term which is certainly not among the brightest in republican history, with the adoption of a measure which I do not think will positively mark the history of this House. It is a measure that poses serious concerns, as it has abundantly emerged in the monologue - as Senator Romano has called it - these days; a measure that does not recognize the freedom of conscience by the doctor, reducing it to a simple bureaucrat, bound to carry out the will of the sick, to be carried out also by judicial means; a measure that provides for hydration and artificial nutrition as therapies and not as a right of the sick to nutrition, always due and in any case to every person; a measure that subtlely introduces euthanasia into our system and that does not recognize that freedom of care that must always be guaranteed, as must always be rejected therapeutic begging. Last night, while I was listening to the debate in this House, I happened to read the thought written by a dear friend of mine, who has been fighting evil for two years, after medical science had declared him clinically dead. He wrote: I'm not a warrior, I'm not an example. Last night I saw the hyena service about DJ Fabo. What happened to this boy is something tragic, absolutely worse than my illness, but I became even more convinced that life is a gift, a precious asset that we must appreciate. I am not saying that we must cling to life at all costs, I simply say that we must appreciate it in whatever form it manifests itself. Now the affection and love of the most dear people make my life a special life: loving life is always smiling and still smiling. Thank you, Pablo! It is for these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, that I strongly reiterate my conviction of this bad measure. [[Applause from the FI-PdL XVII, GAL (DI, GS, PPI, RI, SA) and FL (Id-PL, PLI) groups and Senator Formigoni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u56	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u57	SACCONI (AP-CpE-NCD). Mr President, I will not take part in the final vote, to stress even more the reasons for my dissent, method and merit, on a bad day for the nation. In fact, this House incorporates, without amendment, the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, without a genuine comparison between the different political cultures and without the search for their composition. A priori, on such a sensitive subject, a shared floor of principles has been abandoned, on which a community already tired of many processes of disintegration can rest its path. The Senate is preparing to introduce into our system something more than a simple declaration of treatment preferences in relation to a state of unconsciousness. The principle of favor vitae, which has so far oriented the National Health Service and exalts the loneliness of the individual in the face of a crippling pathology, fails. They frighten the induced effects, even more than the direct ones, because tomorrow the medical profession stiffens, reduced to the mere execution of will expressed, even at a distance of time, in a state of well-being, for fear of future suffering. That therapeutic alliance, which has traditionally united the patient, his family and the treating physician in the concrete and current situation of a serious need for health, fails. The criterion of the appropriateness of therapies and treatments is replaced by an imperative also in the presence of a subsequent scientific evolution. The scope of jurisprudential discretion in the definition of the boundary between life and death is further widened, even towards minors and disabled people. In this way we will not free man from pain, but we will only feed the escape of society from the solidarity embrace of those who suffer. The parliamentary battle of a few, however, was only the beginning of a renewed commitment of many men of good will so that the vicious circle of self-annihilation could soon, even through the next vote, fall into the virtuous circle of vitality. For my part, I will compete with you, outside Parliament, with hope and a secular spirit of truth. [[Applause from Senators Bianconi, Formigoni and Giovanardi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u58	We shall proceed with the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u61	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we are calling for a simultaneous roll-call vote, by electronic procedure, hoping that this will be the last time in the Senate's parliamentary history that such a voting procedure is required.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u62	However, even if we adopt the new Rules of Procedure, it will be for the next parliamentary term, so let us hope that you can request it again a few more times. SANTANGELO (M5S). I'll make this sacrifice. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite the Senator Secretary to check whether the request is supported by the prescribed number of senators. (The request is supported). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2801, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Numerous senators from the PD, M5S, Mixed, Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE, Art.1-MDP-LEU and ALA groups stand and applaud at the gallery address.]] Consequently, the draft law no. 5, 13, 87, 177, 443, 485 and 1973.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u65	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, we have tabled a request for a new subject to be included in the House's calendar, namely the Senate Act 2888 on the abolition of vitalities. We call for this opportunity to be expressed by the House because, in our view, what has happened in recent days, namely the statements made in the press, calls this House to an act of responsibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u66	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u68	LO MORO (Art. 1-MDP-LEU). Mr President, after this beautiful moment, let us return to normality and therefore to ordinary demands. My request seems to me to be in tune with what has just happened. I shall inform the House of this and ask you to evaluate and vote on the request that we have submitted, pursuant to Rule 55 (7) of the Rules of Procedure, for the subject of ius soli to be dealt with from Tuesday. It is already on the calendar. We call for it to be dealt with from next Tuesday. [[Applause from the Groups Art.1-MDP-LEU and Misto-SI-SEL. Ironic comments by Senator Candiani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u69	The timetable for the draft law n. 2888 on vitality, as well as the advance of the treatment of the law on citizenship that is already in our calendar have already been the subject of deliberation and have been rejected by the Assembly at its meeting on 5 December last, during the examination of proposals for amendments to the current timetable of work. Therefore, in accordance with the above, requests made pursuant to Rule 55, paragraph 7 of the Rules of Procedure are inadmissible. However, in order to deal with the issues that have been put to the attention of the Assembly, I would like to say that for next week both the Conference of Leaders, at the conclusion of the reform of the Rules of Procedure, which will begin on Tuesday at 12 noon, and the Presidency Council, on Wednesday at 2 p.m., will be convened. These requests and arguments can be dealt with in those locations. Senator Endrizzi, I think I've given you an answer.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u72	ENDRIZZI (M5S). Mr President, our request was based on a new fact which has not yet taken place at the time when the last group leader was held. PRESIDENT. - The debate is A newspaper article or an interview cannot be considered a new fact, even if it involved the Assembly and the President. ENDRIZZI (M5S). If you'll excuse me, it's not just that. I understand that the insinuations on the responsibilities of this House and the figure of the President are not considered new. More importantly, however, it is the news that I learn from you and that perhaps the press should give fully. I am referring to the fact that this House has already voted, hidden in a pile of other proposals, to refuse to bring to this House the abolition of vitalities. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The Democratic Party must be called upon to be responsible for this. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u73	It's already known.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u74	ENDRIZZI (M5S). What we have heard on television and read in the newspapers, namely that the Democratic Party is there and that it is the fault of others, it is a hoax, it is a fake news, of which you are masters. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u75	All right, Senator Endrizzi.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u76	We shall now proceed to the end of the sitting. ENDRIZZI (M5S). President, I have requests to make. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Endrizzi, we're at the end of the session. I told you: we will be able to deal with these issues in the Group Leaders and the Presidency Council. ENDRIZZI (M5S). President, I haven't said yet. I'll ask you for 30 seconds. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We have already given the floor for the end-of-session speeches. Senator Endrizzi, your position is clear. ENDRIZZI (M5S). He's giving the impression that he's trying to get away from a responsibility.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u79	CERVELLINI (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, over the past few days I have been supporting the workers of the Ideal Standard, who were protesting against the closure of an activity that will leave about 300 people, families out of work, not to mention the induced in the area that will be depressing beyond that. In the meeting with trade union representatives and representatives of company property, to which I participated personally, the cynical and provocative defiance of a group emerged immediately, which, thanks also to the commitments of solidarity of the workers, who have even worked without salary, is active. Evidently, for speculative reasons and without an industrial plan, ownership delocalizes production, dismisses workers and inflicts a deadly wound on a territory already in difficulty. I have personally committed myself to putting in place all possible actions at national and local level, but there is a dramatic new fact. Yesterday the multinational announced that it will not show up at the table with the trade unions scheduled for tomorrow at the Ministry of Economic Development. It is a cold shower for the many workers who were ready to leave for Rome to support the protest against those who decided, suddenly, to close the plant in Roccasecca. This is a very serious act that demonstrates the absolute lack of respect for our country and, above all, for the lives of many people and an entire territory. 11:49 a.m. (Following CERVELLINI). Trade union organizations announced an eight-hour strike with a demonstration outside the factory gates flanking the motorway section. It is not possible so much indifference in the face of the legitimate indignation of people who have worked in the company for many years, not to mention that this delinquent choice will provide yet another very hard blow, in terms of productivity, to the economy of the territory of the Province of Frosinone and the more southern parts. I mean, the government's forcing the multinational to show up at the table. The Government has the tools and arguments, having benefited, in recent years, the property from large public resources and the money of the workers, who have entered into agreements in which wages were reduced and productivity increased. Don't let them get away with the loot, you'll be accomplices! It is not possible for workers to be left alone to fight against these ruthless conditions and laws desired by multinationals, such as the jobs act and those that have opened up their side to unscrupulousness and have favoured actions such as these. I therefore support the call that all the unions have launched for tomorrow's day to participate in the event. I invite senators and senators to do the same. I'll be there physically, along with the workers and workers of the Ideal Standard. Let us not leave them alone in the face of the violence of the owners; let us not provide them with alibis and above all no one then say "I did not know." [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u81	You have the right to do so. (Brusio). DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, I would like to ask for some silence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please do not disturb Senator Divine. Senator Falanga, you're disturbing Senator Divine. I ask you to step away from the bench of the Divine Senator to allow the colleague to begin his speech. DIVINE (LN-Aut). Madam President, there was a generally blamed fact a few days ago: the incursion of the Skinheads Front in Como; an incursion into a place of volunteers that we can call pro-immigrants and which has provoked a lot of indignation and reactions of general condemnation. It was a speech that interrupted a meeting: this is a serious matter. What happened the day before yesterday in Bolzano, however, is something that we consider a little worse, a little more serious, a little more alarming. A real attack took place on a city councilman from Bolzano by social centers, so-called leftist militants. In this case, the phrases used were very heavy: "We know where you live", "We will come and look for you", "The Legists are better dead than alive." It is not that we worry much, but all this happened with a smoke gas put a few centimeters from the face, with the clear intention to intoxicate their antagonist. In these classrooms there is a lot of talk about risks and dangers of drifting. In fact, the left has even thought of making a law against the risk of the return of fascism. So, if I greet a friend, I must be careful not to raise my forearm too much over the elbow because I would commit a crime, for the new laws enacted by the left in this country. Well, we would like, as we condemned that episode, of which we also said that it is not good to interrupt meetings, of no one and of no kind, to use at least the same meter to condemn violent episodes, but in this case real and not virtual or hypothetical. We call on this House and the political forces that have condemned the previous episode that is not duplicating, but that a general condemnation should also apply to these facts. Undoubtedly there is our solidarity with the friend, as well as militant of the League, Filippo Maturi, who had to suffer this humiliation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u82	[[Applause from the LN-Aut Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u85	ANGIONES (PD). Madam President, the so-called end-of-life law, which we have just adopted, is certainly the result of the battles of several people who are no longer there and of many others who are still alive: I have seen the presence in the gallery of Mrs Welby and Mr Emma Bonino, who have been protagonists until the last of these battles. I want to remember, among many, a protagonist of those battles that is no longer there. Walter Piludu was a Sardinian politician (he was also President of the Province of Cagliari) and, in his commitment, he was also an intellectual. In his journey of life he has always been sensitive to the events of the most unfortunate from an economic, social and physical point of view. That sensitivity kept him until the last day of his life, promoting a battle that certainly concerned his condition as a terminal ALS patient, but also aimed at affirming the dignity of life and death for all those who did not have his cultural tools. Piludu had written to the Pope and to the main political forces to solicit a law on the dignity of the end of life and had brought his experience as an example of a condition no longer compatible with the dignity of a real life to live. Piludu expressed the express will, independently and consciously, of the refusal of any treatment that artificially kept him alive through the use of machinery and disappeared in November 2016: it was an Italian court that established the ethical, human and legal justification of his request. The approval today of the law on the end of life is also the fruit of its civil battles, conducted in a democratic way, according to the laws of our country. Personally, I very much respect the views of all my colleagues who have spoken against this law, particularly those positions that I do not at least perceive as instrumental. I thank Senator Romano very much, in any case, for his contribution, even though he was in a different position from mine. Unlike some of my colleagues, I think today is a good page for democracy, culture and civilization in our country. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u86	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-12-14-LEG17-Senato-sed-917.ana.u87	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 19 December, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 11.59 p.m.
