ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Berger, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u3	The next item is the debate on motion 1-00737 of individual distrust of the Minister for Sport. I call Senator Taverna to explain it.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the Minister back. I hope he had a good time in Trentino. We learn from the newspapers that you have already decided how to vote on this motion, before we even discuss it today in Parliament, a bit like you have already decided that you will remain glued to the chair until you mature your pension. In short, you have decided to be politically complicit in a classic dirty Italian history, made up of corruption, bribes, pilot contracts, chores, mediators and politicians. Stories like these from the times of Tangentopoli to today we have seen and endured to dozens. All we have to do is explain to the Italians who are hostage, how in these classrooms we think to preserve in few and few places of power that allow you impunity even before the evidence of the facts. But what are the facts? In this government there is a Minister, the Minister of Sports Luca Lotti, investigated for revealing secret and aiding. The investigation is about corruption for a mega-contract of almost three billion euros, the largest in Europe, in the Council, the power plant that buys goods and services for public administration. In the investigation this time we end up with excellent names, all very close to the former President of the Council Matteo Renzi. In addition to Luca Lotti, who is practically the shadow secretary of Renzi, there are also Matteo's father, Tiziano Renzi, and his family friend, the Tuscan entrepreneur Carlo Russo. Both are investigated for trafficking in illicit influences. They are all Tuscan, all Renzi; it is a real Renzi system. But let's get this straight. At the center of this story there is an entrepreneur, Alfredo Romeo, now in prison: he is an entrepreneur who many of you know well here, from left to right. He's been legally funding everyone from PD to National Alliance. Even in the Senate he won a contract on which we have been trying to clarify for four years with our commissioner Laura Bottici. But this Romeo seems to be untouchable. According to the magistrates, the entrepreneur Romeo wants to get his hands on the megacontract Consip and thus corrupts the official Marco Gasparri, who confessed everything. But obviously it is not enough for him; he wants to get higher: he wants to get directly to the CEO Luigi Marroni. To do so - always according to the prosecutors - he uses Carlo Russo, the Tuscan entrepreneur friend of Renzi. The chain in short would be Carlo Russo, mediator with Tiziano Renzi, in turn mediator with Luigi Marroni. The entrepreneur Romeo, always say the pm, noted on two pinches that he had to give 30,000 euros a month to dad Renzi and 5,000 every two months to the trusted Russian. Someone will say: what does Minister Lotti have to do with it? We also come to you, Minister, because at some point in the investigation, your name comes up. When you were Undersecretary for the Presidency of the Council, you, Minister, send a text to the governor of Puglia Michele Emiliano and invite him to meet Russo. He writes to him: It has a good tour, it is part of the pharmaceutical world, if you meet it for ten minutes you don't waste your time. But the accusation about you is another one and it is very heavy: you, Minister, would be the spy who said to Luigi Marroni: "Eye, there is an inquiry about you." I mean, he would have told him that his office had investigators' bugs in it, and these aren't fantasies, because Marroni really does clean up the office, and the bugs are actually found. We repeat that these are not suppositions of the magistrates. The name of Lotti is two iron Renzians, two of the magic lily: one is Luigi Marroni, who in Consip was put by Renzi in 2015, the other is Filippo Vannoni, appointed by the Renzians in the Florentine multiutility Publiacqua and former economic advisor when Renzi was at Palazzo Chigi. Vannoni also says more: "Also Renzi knew about the investigation." But just when the Public Prosecutor's Office is about to reach the heart of the matter and then to Tiziano Renzi, everything goes to waste, with so much greetings to the investigation for corruption on the most important contract in Europe, which runs wild. In any civilized country this would be enough to bring down any Government; instead in Italy begins the tarantella that plunges this story into the most squalid political manfriend, because, even admitting that you, Minister, are not the spy, this means then that Marroni and Vannoni lied. But what reasons would two managers owe it all to Renzi and you, Minister Lotti, to slander you? Are they crazy? And if they're two slanderers, why didn't you sue them, Minister? And why is Marroni still in his place? If you tell the truth, when you plead innocent, why leave a slanderer at the head of the public purchasing plant? Marroni has already announced that he will not retract his testimony given before the magistrates. So at one o'clock: either you, Minister Lotti, are a liar who is lying when you say you haven't made any revelations, or you are a liar Marroni, the CEO of Consip. Logically, one of them should go home and immediately. Instead, we find ourselves in a situation within the limits of the absurd, with a government in a confused state: we have, on the one hand, Minister Padoan who protects Marroni and, on the other, the former President of the Council Renzi and his party that protect, you Minister Lotti. And all who remain in their place as if nothing had happened! If this seems normal to you, I wonder if even the citizens outside, who are listening to these words, consider it a normal thing that you all stand there, standing there, immobile: either it is the fault of one or the other, yet both remain in their place. In these days Renzi said that Lotti must not resign at all; a pity that only a few years ago, in 2013, instead, he said: Resignation does not depend on a guarantee notice. (...) It is not a judicial problem, so it is worse: it is a political problem. (...) Unfortunately, unfortunately, this affair has undermined the institutional authority and the idea of impartiality of the Minister. And again: "The idea that we made of the whole story (...) is that the law is not the same for everyone and that if you know someone important you can manage better. It is the Republic of Friends of Friends: this attitude is unbearable. This is what the former President of the Council, as well as former party secretary, former scraper, former young man, in short, ex everything, wrote about Minister Annamaria Cancelleri, involved in the Ligresti case and not even investigated at the time. The Republic of Friends of Friends is this which we have before us today, all in line and all aligned: it is yours. But unlike Renzi, who changes his mind faster than the wind changes, we have not changed it and today, as then, we feel all this unbearable. So Lotti doesn't touch. We would like to know why we are witnessing this stubborn defense against you today, Minister. Maybe because Lotti is Renzi's right-hand man and, if he falls, the government comes down? And that worries you, because if the government falls you risk having to go back to the polls and be judged by those voters that in these four years you have systematically betrayed. Especially because, if the government falls, you lose your pension, which you want to hold on to, why do you fall back when you retire after only four years of work? [[Live comments from PD and Art.1-MDP Groups]] The Fornero law is bad if you have to apply it to yourself, isn't it? Who cares if the Italians have to work for forty years and pass, you quiet and combed, still a couple of months and voilà: the pension has matured. This is why the Movement of Progressive Democrats presented its motion against Lotti: a shot at the circle and one at the barrel, in pure demo-Christian style. Because you, too, do not want the government to fall, otherwise you could vote on our motion. Then tell him that "DP" stands for "democracy of armchairs"! Say it and let's stop with hypocrisy! [[Comments from the Group Art. 1-MDP]] It is not only a minister who is defending himself here, who is arming the faithful of the famous Tuscan "tragic lily," who sits on the board of directors of the Fondazione renziana Open, together with Minister Boschi, a foundation that, by chance, has received lawful funding for 60,000 euros from the entrepreneur Alfredo Romeo (we remember the name, don't we?), today under arrest for corruption in the same judicial investigation as you, Minister Lotti, and the father of the former President of the Council. How many perverse interweavings tie the Council investigation to the Lily Rentian? And beyond the warranty notices, how can you not consider all this politically and ethically embarrassing? Minister Lotti, you are being investigated for crimes that are very serious for those who, like you, are in a position of government. The issue is not the warning of guarantee, but the seriousness of the accusations and to understand that they are serious we must not wait for the judgments of the judiciary. It is a basic principle, that we of the 5 Star Movement, applying our ethical code praised by the Magistrate anti-Mafia of Matthew, have already made our own. [[Enjoy comments and laughter from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u5	Let the surgery finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u6	TAVERNA (M5S). The PD, on the other hand, what does it apply? The code of the "tragic lily," where is the rule of the "Republic of Friends of Friends" worth? He's always in the middle, Renzi. You gave him the destiny of a country and a party, sacrificing the destruction of one and the other, in the painful attempt to rule in sequence with the Berlusconi Government, which you had before as an ally and today as a shoulder. Because you're going out today, aren't you? You will not participate in the vote. What did you switch, tomorrow's vote on Minzolini? [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti.]] The electoral law agreement? The next coalition to guarantee you a few more months' salary? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You have to account to the country. We are talking about very serious accusations: accusations about sabotage of an investigation into the largest contract in Europe. Then really here we are talking about being either on the side of justice or on the side of Minister Lotti. [[Comments from the PD Group]] You have distorted your role by filling yourself with rights and forgetting your duties. Renzi and Minister Lotti are bound by a very close political relationship. Lotti was Undersecretary and you wanted to give him powers to the Secret Service. Someone who leaks investigations to the people involved would have been delegated to the Secret Service! You've gone crazy! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You are a squalid theater of hypocrisy; you are merely hypocrites. And before this charade turns into yet another mockery for the citizens, Minister Lotti, have a whisper of dignity. On Sunday she applauded her political godfather Renzi from the front of the Lingotto, who glissed on the Consip case. That scene was the worthy synthesis of the history of your power group, which only thanks to an unconstitutional electoral law today has a majority in the Houses. Minister Lotti, apologize to the Italians and finally come home. By losing her, the Italians won't lose anything. After all, in recent years in politics, he has made so many good friends and, if he is not more protected by Renzi, he will always be able to count on Verdini. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause from Senator Cardinals.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u7	I declare the debate open. Senator Augello is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u8	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Members who have tabled this motion, although I have a disagreement with the issue of how to deal with a guarantee notice, are making some points. You, as a citizen and certainly not as a Minister (as your experience is so short that it will be forgotten as a Minister), have every right to receive a guarantee notice and consider it as such, that is, a guarantee to be able to defend yourself as best you can. However, there is a political problem that has been touched on by the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement is that I believe it must be deepened, also because I am the first signatory of another motion, which is centred on this (in fact, I entrust myself to the good heart of President Grasso, to put it on the agenda as soon as possible). The political problem that arises can be summarized in the following terms: you, Minister Lotti, are accused in this affair of having played a role that in ordinary underworld is the most ridiculous of all, that of the "palo." According to the hypothesis that they outlined the journalistic advances on the judicial case in question, you would have basically warned the summits of the Council that an investigation was under way. I would have no difficulty believing your denials, but it is not important whether I believe you or not: this is a problem that you will have to face with the magistrates and, if you like, with public opinion. However, I find it difficult to understand why you have been sent to this House today in this frankly difficult situation. On March 2nd and 4th, respectively, on the Republic and on the Corriere della Sera (Corriere della Sera), what you claim to be your slanderer, who perhaps also wanted to take headlong (if I remember correctly, I read somewhere that you said that in a moment of bad mood, when you knew this thing, you would have wanted to give him a headline), you made statements. This manager of the most important Italian contracting station told the newspapers that he had made his mandate available and that he had received a request to remain in his place by his colleague, Minister Padoan. It happens twice, on 2nd and 4th March, and not on the Echo of Chiesina Uzzanese, but on the two main Italian newspapers. I believe that this fact is already in itself astonishing, because before we have the problem - which we would put ourselves in this House - if it is necessary to use the civil code and the powers that belong to the shareholder of Consip to resolve a situation difficult to understand for reasons that I will say shortly, the basic point is that you are here and will shortly intervene to claim your extraneousness to the facts and to claim that the highest manager of the most important Italian contracting station slandered you, while a colleague of yours held the resignation of this slanderer and would tell him to stay in his place twice. Not only that: not later than a few days ago Minister Padoan also explained that this gentleman must remain in his place until the end of his mandate, until the approval of the budget of his last year of mandate. Why is this happening? Why do you present yourself with a group, that of the Government, absolutely empathetic to you on the crib floor and with such a squeaky and inexplicable fact? What will this Mr. Marroni have that he can't even touch with a flower after he slandered her? Besides, if she'd only been slandered, I could deal with it. Then we should take it easy on those terms. As you know, from a certain point of view, slander is an addict of perjury, because it means lying in the course of an inquiry to the magistrates or the judicial police authority, and it is more serious than perjury because it is aimed at bringing the blame on a person who does not have it. This crime, however, can be prosecuted either on its own initiative or by a lawsuit: it was not prosecuted on its own, because this gentleman was not denounced for slander. As for the complaint, I would remind you of your predecessors: Mr Bettini, a former Member of the European Parliament and Senator, recently announced yesterday the presentation of a slander suit against Buzzi, who said he had given him money; Rotelli in this House explained with great emphasis that he intended to denounce Lusi for slander. It's normal, it happens. In this case, I would be careful to say whether Marroni is a slanderer or not: they are your problems, you see it among yourselves; then, you all know each other from many and you will solve this issue. However, we have even reached the paradox that this administrator has publicly justified himself by saying that a good administrator favors if he makes them ask from everyone, because the important thing is that he does not then do them. I do not know if you can understand - following, because I see that at this moment, probably, it is taken by other things - the dynamics of this reasoning, which ended by saying: We are not Tibetan monks. Therefore, if one is not a Tibetan monk and manages the Consip, if a gentleman asks him to rig a race, he answers him to talk about it and, after a discussion, everything is resolved because the race does not make it up. I do not say this because I have heard it or because it is a voice: this too has come out in all the newspapers, quoted, not sanctioned, not in any way denied. There is a deafening silence around this character and she shows up here today after all these days of silence. Someone should in fact tell this gentleman that if someone does such a thing, they are attempting an auction disturbance and that he has a duty of his own to report it to the judicial authority and to notify his shareholder and the supervisory body. Moreover, it is forbidden by the code of ethics to listen to and have meetings with people who have such intentions with the mediation of others. So, I'm not interested in your misunderstandings, whether you're slandered or not. And I am even less interested, frankly, if someone goes to speak to Our Lady of Medjugorje and another understands that he must receive a clerk to encourage a race. These are language problems, which do not concern myself and do not concern the Senate of the Republic. It's about the magistrates. The Senate of the Republic is concerned with a political issue: it is not conceivable, it is not possible, for you to sit in a Council of Ministers, in which you tell us and the public opinion that you are being persecuted by slanders and slanderers while with the government itself covers not only the possible slander you are talking about, but also a series of behaviors and statements that are inconceivable. Also because his position is still to be established, that of the administrator not: he admitted to having removed the bugs because he knew that there was the investigation. So, you obstructed the investigation. He does not deny that he has relations with the clerk, because he says that it is normal to have them: just don't make up the races. And that makes her, frankly, very fragile. You come to this House in a state of disarming fragility. Now, it's okay. He's gonna be okay. You have already had a career that should fill you with satisfaction, because to go from the minds of the municipal council of Montelupo Fiorentino to being the Minister, I think you can be content. She's done pretty well already. Nearly all of us have made longer jigs and, so, I'm sure that, one way or another, it will still come out well of this. Then she's young, she's full of ideas (the bulb is called) and I'm sure she'll come out. Your problem here, however, is not of a personal nature; your problem is to clarify this inexplicable political issue to this House. And it is an inexplicable political affair because, then, what are we convinced of? Regardless of whether or not you were the pole, because this will clarify it with your lawyer to the magistrates, we are convinced that there were very serious things going on in there and that someone, at this moment, is concerned about having "spending the night", not intervening, as if the state were not there. This is serious, also because, while in your case there is a whole issue of guarantees, which are yours and which I recognise, in the case of the administration of the Council there are administrative issues, those which I raised. Violating the code of ethics is an administrative problem; not informing the shareholder is an administrative problem. It is an administrative duty not to do so to believe that we can maintain personal relations on matters other than those of the mandate of office. If you do, you put yourself in a sanctionable condition. I didn't see these sanctions. I saw her, on the other hand, very alone in her position. All this leads me to say that the real issue of this debate is not whether we are going out or staying in the Chamber. And I say to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement that I will leave the Chamber, but in return I did not ask for anything at all, for the simple reason that I have never voted for the resignation of a person who had received a guarantee notice. I've never been funny to anyone who got warranty notices. [[Applause from the CoR and LAG groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) and Senators Rizzotti and Sciliopti Isgrò.]] I've never messed with these things and I'm not gonna do it today. However, with all due respect for Montelupo Fiorentino, this is the Senate of the Republic and fairy tales do not apply, let us not be fooled: this does not mean that the position that you come to represent us today is credible or presentable on a political level. Solve the matter, because we will meet again in this House to resolve it; solve it because you cannot do all the parts in comedy. We will get out of the Chamber, of course; we will also come out of the Chamber with some memory of the many Ministers of the Republic who have behaved better than you. In fact, being in much more presentable conditions, only for having received a warning of guarantee, sometimes even without having received it, people who had responsibilities even less than yours and who exposed even less than you the Government at a difficult time in the country and, if we want, also of your political part, have not thought of it a moment, in the past, to leave. [[Applause from Senator Bignami]] If you will, I quote: from Storace, to Minister Lupi recently, to Minister Idem. I can name as many as you want. People much simpler than you, much less lucky than you, with careers much less brilliant than yours and, sometimes, even much less young than you. Think about it, Minister, think about it. That's advice. I do not allow myself to judge your judicial position; but in your political position I really hope never to end up and never have to present myself in a Chamber in the political condition in which you are in this evening. That is why, at the end of the debate, we will leave the Chamber and will not participate in the vote, because we cannot either endorse this political situation or use an inappropriate weapon to attack it. The own weapon, parliamentary, is already on the table of the President of the Senate; that day we will not do discounts and we will close this game. [[Applause from the CoR, FI-PdL XVII and LAG groups (GS, PpI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u9	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u10	Mr President, we shall remain here and vote on this motion of no confidence. In itself it is not a motion of distrust to the person, no matter how much the person of Minister Lotti can be identified, but to a system. And it is evident in the eyes of the Italians the system that you have tried to build, that you have carried on in the years of the Renzi Government and that still today continues to live under the lied remains of the Government Gentiloni Silveri. A system that intertwines in a disgusting way - for those who look at the interest of public affairs - private interests, a craving for immense power and a family mechanism that binds to parental relations as in Italy had never been seen and as seen instead in the countries that we have always defined underdeveloped or limited democracy. This is the image of the country and the government that you are currently projecting outside. And President Gentiloni Silveri wants to go to Europe and ask for credibility or to spend himself to rise to discontinuity with a system! The system ultimately belongs to him, because you, Minister, are part of the Government Gentiloni Silveri, like all the other comrades of the Ministers, photocopying from the previous Government. I am pleased to see that on this occasion there are more ministers than chairs in this House. A figure is missing, President Grasso: undersecretary Boschi, who evidently did not consider to be exposed in this circumstance, because otherwise this flower, with all its petals, would have been complete or however much more complete than the single petal Lotti, this magic lily. This is what you have built and it is not a rhetorical invention of politics that we are doing here in the Chamber, it is now the consolidated image that belongs and that characterizes the Government, first Renzi and now Gentiloni Silveri: the magic lily, this fantastic and unfortunately existing substructure of power that you have created and with which you have sought and continue to try to subdue and subjugate part of the country, whether by conditioning the press, or by conditioning or managing economic systems. So let us welcome this motion of no confidence. I frankly am only surprised to see the headlines appearing in the newspapers: Dad Tiziano, Lotti and the generals, all the faces of the Consip inquiry, the monster stuff of Florence. There are newspaper headlines that would be really embarrassing to any government. Yet, despite this, the political part that expresses this majority of government, the PD or, better, Renzi's party, manages to find justifications that give it a reason to remain in its place, the Government, despite the obvious embarrassment that there is in the ranks of the majority. This is at least symptomatic of the level of degeneration that now characterizes the Democratic Party and the majority of this Government: the important thing is to remain attacked by the armchair, because, if it were unfortunate to go to the vote today, the Italians would punish you. Other than 60% and 40% of the constitutional referendum, other than the blows you have already taken in the local elections: the government would fall in one minute and you would not be able to return to the government. This is the reason that keeps you glued, with situations that are, as I said, at least embarrassing. Why am I embarrassing? Since we are talking about something, let us also remember the numbers: we are talking about a convention that is worth 2,700 million euros, on which not only the ghosts hang, but the certainties of an investigation that is bringing to the surface a system of power management in which you, Minister Lotti, are investigated for aiding and revealing office secrecy. This isn't trivial. In other countries, ministers investigated for much less had to resign, simply not to transfer their bad image to that of the entire government. The problem is that your political action is so degenerate that you make this pass also by normality. I can think of an embarrassing interview that a reporter very dear to you, Fabrizio Rondolino, released on television this afternoon: you were talking about safety and it was said that the problem does not exist, it is the Italians who watch television too much and get influenced. This is the same vision that you want to give the government: the problems of corruption and interweaving, the existence of the so-called magic lily and relations with relatives, the mechanism of the babbi (Babbo Renzi, Father Lotti and Father Boschi) is a media invention. Italians, watch television too much, therefore, be serene because this situation does not exist at all, even if the investigations are bringing to the surface a system, complete with telephone interceptions, that is at least disconcerting, not to say discomfortable. In spite of all this, you, Minister Lotti, do not feel the duty to step aside. The inconsistencies appear objectively enormous. Both you and your counterpart, Marroni, who should already have been denounced for slander, come from the same magical lilies of Renzia. One says one thing, and the other says another, but there is no complaint or statement from him that would lead to Marroni being infamous. Something clearly doesn't work. We already know where you're going to end up: Marroni will be dumped, while you, Minister Lotti, will be saved because Parliament cannot be allowed to remove a petal of the magic lily, otherwise the whole lily grazes and we know that the flowers, when they touch, stink. So you can't afford to lose a petal. As for Marroni, be serene, his days are now marked. Although, still the other day, Marroni gave an interview at least curious for a person who should be removed simply for saying the false, moving within the framework of a trust relationship. Marroni said, why should I resign? For doing my job? For saving the state 3 billion euros with our races? The reasons why he should resign, Marroni should know them well, even for what he curiously goes around saying: I meet people and more or less everyone asks me favors, I write them on the pinches and then throw them. But who did you start running the largest procurement station in Italy? Either you remove it, or you, Minister Lotti, tell the fake. One of them says fake, it's obvious. The investigation will advance, but the discredit on the government is already there and the more you remain in your position, the more discredits the government. So far I may have a political satisfaction, but the problem is that the discredit of the government is moving over the entire country. I want to see the efforts that the next Commission will have to make to regain the confidence not only of the citizens, but also of those to whom we ask for the effort to pay taxes, that is, the honest people. In fact, if honesty does not reside in the government, it is difficult to be credible when it is then claimed by the country. This is the discredit that should worry those who govern in the interests of the citizens. We have seen that the interweaving goes far beyond and it has already been years that articles appear, such as those published in the newspapers of 2014 and 2015, in which it is said that Lotti's father signed the mortgage for Renzi's father. Nothing to say except that Lotti's father works in a bank, which lent money to Renzi's father, for a company that failed, with a loan guaranteed by Fidi Toscana. And once again it was the citizens who paid, because those businesses that failed took money, which were paid by the citizens themselves and not by the responsible and guilty hand that signed those trusts; not by the responsible and guilty hand of a joint of yours, Minister, who went to grant that money, on the basis of a clearly parental relationship, because there were no conditions to do so, if the company failed only a few months later. That would be enough to say that you are not titled and do not have that "malodorant" moral superiority, of which you are clothed, to remain in the government. In a normal country, these craps wouldn't even allow access to the administration of a condo! You're in the government today. Just ignore it and think you can do it. Your political side mocks those who raise these objections, rather than worrying about having to regain the confidence of the citizens, and it justifies you! Mr President, they justify, thinking that this is enough to be believed outside. Dear colleagues, you are instead cultivating discredit towards this Government, which you want to arrive until 2018. At this rate, however, it will not even reach the month of September and we hope so, because the discredit you are covering in the country will raise such a wave that it will overwhelm you: it is only a matter of time. Ditto, De Girolamo, Cancellieri, Lupi: let's remember these names. You let them go! I remember when Minister Lupi was discharged. And I would remind my colleagues in the majority of the NCD Group - or what the hell it is called today - that they intend to vote against the motion of no confidence. He wrote an article: "Because Lupi's resignation is Renzi's victory. They are Renzi's victory because they confirm his double-popuesism. At the same time, Renzi once again humiliates NCD, demonstrating its irrelevance. And the less credible NCD is, the more doomed it is to survive attached to the majority, like a mussel to the rock. The Premier knows he has nothing to fear over there. Alfano himself, in order not to leave the Government, would sell not only wolves, but also his soul to the devil, if only Satan had the slightest interest in buying it (I add) being second hand. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]] The truth of the facts is that even today, colleagues, you will be bending, but this time not even for the interest of one of your party pals, but to support a partnership of Renzi, fundamental to his system of power and to ensure a political survival, which now resembles that of a candle arrived less than an inch from the end of the wick. But go on like this. Mr. Lotti, you know who John Colangelo is, don't you? If he had forgotten it or if someone had not heard of this name, I remember that Giovanni Colangelo was attorney of the Republic at the Public Prosecutor's Office in Naples and a few days ago he gave an interview with the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera). To the reporter who asked him what he thought, basically, of his retirement, which was not applied to other magistrates, but which the Government explicitly wanted for a certain group of magistrates, he replied as follows: I'm telling you, I don't want to feed you illations. Of course, the temporal coincidence is an objective fact. So let us ask ourselves what this temporal coincidence is. This is the magistrate who opened the line of Naples investigations on the Council, which with this system you wanted to take out, trying to put a stone on this investigation. As had already been revealed by the daily newspaper "The Truth" several months ago, Father Renzi became restless when he learned and it was known that an investigation had been opened in Naples on the Council. He knew very well, in fact, what risk he would have had the investigation extended. Then there was the infamous magnificent leak of news, with the bugs and everything else, of which the chronicles have brought us well.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u11	Senator Candiani, I invite you to come to the conclusion. Your time is running out.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u12	CANDIANI (LN-Aut). Mr President, this is a mechanism that we want to disassemble. It is now clear that there is an abysmal distance between your games of power and the real country, the one made by the craftsmen who do not arrive at the end of the month, by the earthquake victims who do not yet have a solution to their problems and by the citizens who have to go abroad. Minister Lotti, come down to any square bar, without escort and no one around, and explain that it is normal, when you go to the government, to take your relatives, friends, faithful and family with you, and that it is normal for one of your relatives or relatives to leave their phones outside the house to meet other people. Please explain that it is normal to warn the partners that they are under investigation and that they must therefore be careful to speak. Explain that this lifestyle is normal and you'll see what they'll tell you. This is the system that you have sewed on tailor-made without realizing it, and this, President Grasso, is the most hallucinating thing. Minister Lotti, you will be saved today because, as I said before, there is a majority here that does not want to go home; a majority that knows very well that, at the moment when Renzi was sorry, it would no longer be redemptive. But be serene, Minister Lotti, because the end of the legislature will come anyway and, when the citizens will understand and understand to the end what risk they have run with the Renzi Government and what uncertainties there are still today in cutting the thorn and roots by the Gentiloni Government Silveri, then you will be flooded with infamy, far beyond what this motion is bringing to you today. Be responsible, Minister. Step aside before everything overwhelms the country. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mancuso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u14	Mr President, we knew that the Legists are obsessively suffering the figure of Alfano, but that they are also concerned about his soul. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE) and PD]] I believe that the motion of censure is one of the least exciting pages of our parliamentary life. We have already seen representations of this kind in this House in the past, always with the same cliché: generic references to behaviour more appropriate to the role of each of us; accusations very often, unfortunately, unfounded; sketches of dirty water taken from press articles written by questionable pennants. It is a film already seen, a painful and unupbuilding theatrical representation of our already discussed parliamentary life. It is one of the performances of the great Barnum circus that is becoming Italian politics. I believe that a recovery of respect, responsibility and sobriety we owe to ourselves, to what we represent, to the dignity that the role imposes on us and that should guide us along our political and parliamentary path. To accuse anyone who plays a political role with advance trials and with early convictions, feeding the suspicion and subjecting the person to media deception - it is called Guidi, Lupi or Raggi - seems to me an exercise worthy of an uncivilized country. It is not up to me - I would not even be able to - to assess the judicial profiles of a matter on which it is right to clarify. However, I would leave it to the magistrates - as they say - to ascertain any liability. On this occasion it also seems inappropriate to talk about guaranteeing, we who guarantee it are to the core, because here there is nothing to guarantee: there are ongoing investigations and measures in any case to protect the person investigated. I can assure you that, although it is difficult for me to see elements of judicial importance to Mr Lotti, there may be reasons for political opportunity. But what are the reasons for political opportunity? Political opportunity is a serious and important topic, which must be supported by sensible reasons that affect the political work of the accused person and the role he plays in the context of government action. In this case, the reasons given for mistrust are futile, inconsistent and miserably linked to the subject of political opportunity. We are therefore also today deciding on an empty motion of content and full of artificial motives, which have the obvious aim of casting shadows on the political work of a minister who has distinguished himself by his commitment, enthusiasm and dedication to his work. As far as we are concerned, this distrust is like a house built on the mud, groundless, collapsed before it was born. We do not, therefore, believe that there are elements to comfort a distrust that is argued with pretentious and instrumental reasons. Today another ugly page of Italian political life will be archived; a page that is an expression, this time, not of a judicialist Italy but of a rogue Italietta, of a gaglioffa Italietta. Minister Lotti, you have decided to remain in your place and you have done well. We wish you to continue your work with the same commitment and without any drop in enthusiasm. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE) and Senator Caleo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Falanga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind myself and all of you that we, here, are in a Chamber of Parliament and not in a Chamber of Justice. Moreover, Senator Taverna, who illustrated the motion of distrust, has joined the exposition of facts that she has undoubtedly deduced from acts that are filtered through the meshes of that secret inquiry that has become more and more secret of Pulcinella. On the basis of this attitude I would say voyeuristic, i.e. as a voyeur, who peeks through a hole in the lock, it is believed to be legitimate to express a finished judgment on the conduct of a representative of the Government. For a moment it seemed to me to revisit a famous comedy by Eduardo De Filippo, "The Mayor of the Health District," when some claimed to give advice to Minister Lotti. That advice gave Eduardo in that famous comedy. You see, if an suspect denounces the judge who is carrying out the investigation, following the complaint, and therefore the registration in the register of the suspects of that judge, a well-established practice is activated. The head of the judicial office, who on the basis of a general rule should subtract the investigation procedure from that judge, in order to avoid that a citizen can easily get rid of his natural judge, does not, in practice, subtract the investigation procedure from the judge in question who, even if denounced by his suspect, will continue to carry out investigations against him. It is the judiciary which, within itself, already applies such a rule. And it is to be expected that in this House a warning of guarantee, that is, an act to guarantee the suspect, will become a measure to be taken in order to distrust and send home a Minister of the Republic. Minister Lotti will allow me to say that I have no particular sympathy for him or for his majority in government, but I do not care about Lotti, Renzi or any other majority. I'm interested in the democratic rules of my country. I would like to see no question of the balance between the powers of the State. And if any of you thinks that you can confuse these balances and that the power of the judiciary can prevail, that is to invade the field of legislative power, as long as I participate in an Assembly of the Italian Parliament, I will always oppose, whoever is the recipient of the guarantee notice. Senator Candiani, you are of bossian origin. Let's not forget the history of this country. You're not allowed to do that. You remembered Lupi and De Girolamo. I don't care if they've decided to resign from their position as government. I would have voted 'no' to a possible motion of distrust against anyone in the political landscape of my country if he had only received a guarantee notice. There were the stories and, even, the questions. Someone almost dared to ask questions asking for explanations and taking on the judge's robes, undressing those of the legislator. This is the gravity of what is happening today in our country. That is why my group and I will vote against the motion of no confidence. Mr Lotti, you do not consider this an act of generosity on our part, but a consequence of a cultural attitude that will never change. A friend of mine - for this verse I also understand Senator Candiani's words - told me a few days ago that, in order to be faithful to his ideas, one must change the party about twenty times. Perhaps it is true; perhaps it is so, and that is perhaps why someone, who spoke a different language yesterday, speaks a different language today. We always use the same, at least me, and I think I can be an adequate interpreter of all my colleagues in the Group. We use a language of freedom, legality and respect for citizens' rights. And today we respect Mr Lotti's rights, although Minister, to defend himself in the courtrooms and not to have to do so in a Parliamentary Assembly. I wish you well, Minister Lotti. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group]] . Congratulations). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Repetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, once again we are forced to debate and vote on a motion of individual distrust, an act presented by the 5 Star Movement, but which many political forces - it must be remembered - have used in the past as an improper instrument of political struggle. And this highlights, once again, the embarrassment and the barrenness of Italian political life. With Mr Lotti's motion of no confidence, it is clear more than ever that we are faced with a pretentious political exploitation. Colleagues - allow me - I can think of another case, from a few years ago. It was a motion of distrust for the collapse of a piece of Pompeii wall, an absurd case. However, I do not want to be silent about assessing things beyond the political sphere. You know that's not the case. You know that case was objectively a mess. And, since I have assessed it then and I know how to evaluate it today, with the same rationality and intellectual honesty I also consider this motion unjustified today, a real shame. Colleagues, we must put an end to this practice of personal aggression used as a political confrontation. And that applies to everyone if we want to avoid the degradation of our democracy. Another question, not of secondary importance: we live in a country that, even with its own problems, can be defined civil, based on principles of guarantee, in search of true justice and not of justiceism; guarantees that protect us from dictatorships that, in other countries, do massacres of men and democracy. But tell me, then, how would you be guaranteed only with your friends and others get away with it? What code of ethics is this? It is the first rule on which dictatorships are based. How can one justify a motion of distrust only on the basis of an investigation for violation of the secret investigation, but which cannot be found in reality? Here then anyone can accuse anyone, with the knowledge that as soon as an investigation opens, you can literally take out of the political scene anyone you want. This is the point that must make everyone shudder. Another very serious thing about the affair - and not only this - is how a simple investigation has already turned into a real trial, with the publication of excerpts of judicial acts, all in small pieces and also unclear. And so nothing but guaranteeing, other than presumption of innocence: here we start straight with condemnation, without possibility of defense, through a media pillage. Is this a civilized country? On these issues too, ladies and gentlemen, without any hypocrisy, we must address the issue of justice and the dissemination of judicial acts. One thing is transparency and the sacrosanct right to information, which no one wants to touch; another is the presumed right to muddy people and their families, to destroy their reputation without defense, with the ignoble aim of taking out the political opponent and/or, even worse, to make a little cash with the gossip. Parliament must address this important issue once and for all, seriously, also in order to ensure better work for the judiciary. Dear colleagues, Minister, my position is therefore clear: I am firmly convinced of the absurdity of this motion of distrust, because I am absolutely certain of your honesty, Minister Lotti, and also because I am concerned about protecting the democracy of our country. Vote against this motion of mistrust today means protecting the freedom of all of us. It means protecting the freedom of all Italians. It means protecting the freedom of those who have tabled the motion of no confidence today. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bencini and Buemi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u18	Senator Gotor is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, on behalf of Article 1 - Democratic and progressive movement, I rise to ask, even in a parliamentary forum, that the Minister of Sport, with delegation to CIPE, Luca Lotti, resign from office. [[Applause from Senator Cappelletti]] If, however, he decides to stay, we ask the President of the Council Gentiloni Silveri to evaluate the suspension of his delegations until the clarification of the case that sees him involved. In particular, the important delegation to CIPE risks becoming of special embarrassment in the situation given, because it concerns national economic planning and the coordination of the activities of the public administration of public bodies, since the Council is the public purchasing power centre of the public administration. We appeal to the Minister of Sport's political sensitivity and invite him to have a sporting behavior, which means teaming up and protecting the image of the Executive which, as a democratic and progressive movement, we support. The government, in fact, must operate away from suspicions about behaviors that are not irreproachable - politically, be it clear - of its members, in order to be able to carry out its objectives more effectively. First of all, I would like to clear the field of a completely misleading subject which has been stirred up these days and which has also returned to this House. Minister Lotti is investigated of a serious crime for a minister, i.e. aiding and revealing secret instruction. But it is necessary - I repeat, right - to adhere to a strict attitude of civil guarantee, based on the presumption of innocence until proven otherwise and up to the third degree of judgment. We therefore hope, Minister, that you will be able to demonstrate, in criminal proceedings, that you are extraneous to the serious accusation and that your position can be dismissed without even taking a decision. But the issue, in our opinion, is political and concerns the need for you to remain in your position. In fact, it is not necessary to wait for justice to take its course in order to realize how in the Consip affair the mix between business and politics has given rise to a link detrimental to the authority and respectability of the institutions. The Council's question poses three problems which I would like to point out to the House. Firstly, there is a problem of coherence, which has already been mentioned. It would be appropriate for politics, in full autonomy, to regulate itself, elevating the bar of rigour of behavior in the management of public affairs. Politics must arrive before prosecution, otherwise it is already defeated, and must have uniform standards of conduct in order not to generate the suspicion of a double moral and of an intermittent guarantee, which transform that principle of civilization, guaranteeing, in a mere opportunistic behavior, to be claimed only when their powerful friends or party comrades are involved. We note that the Democratic Party, in the Venetian season, loves to practice a double morale and a guaranteed card: only in the last three years, three ministers (De Girolamo, Lupi, Guidi) were forced to resign although, unlike Minister Lotti, they were not even investigated. Well, it should be noted that Renzi was at the forefront of demanding them for reasons of style and opportunity, which today reveal themselves in all their hypocrisy. Not to mention the case of my colleague Josefa Idem, who was also Minister of Sport, who at the time had an Olympic behavior very different from that of Lotti and to whom all our solidarity goes; or of the story Chancellors, with the statements of Renzi of that time, who smoothed the hair to the most deteriorating judicialism. Do You Remember? He said: The idea that we've made of the whole Ligresti story is that the law isn't the same for everyone and that if you know someone important, you're better off. It is the Republic of Friends of Friends. That's right. In this regard, we come to the second aspect. The Consip story - I repeat, regardless of its possible criminal importance - highlights customer behavior attributable to the category of amoral familism, elaborated by sociologist Edward Banfield, in the mid-Twentieth century. These conducts unravel as issues of public interest have been addressed thanks to a prominent role of family, personal, private and friendly relations based on the predominant bonds of solidarity on the interests of the community and on the principles of free competition and meritocracy. Unfortunately, this is not an isolated case, but a more general conduct of these years, a style and a management of the power that can be summarized in form and formula: too much power in a few kilometers; a sort of raptor zero kilometer of politics. As authoritatively supported in an editorial by Ezio Mauro on the pages of "la Repubblica", we are faced with a sort of tangle of power grown around Renzi, who cultivated and tolerated him in the illusion of protecting himself, until he remained imprisoned. The management of public power cannot be carried out by the appointment of persons of proven personal loyalty or a certain geographical origin - in this case Tuscan - to the detriment of a verification of their intrinsic professional qualities. Such behaviour risks fueling the affirmation and the aiding of private and domestic interests in which the family, the faction and the consortry overlap with the State until they become confused with it, to the detriment of the necessary authority that must accompany the exercise of the public function. Finally, the perhaps most sensitive issue of this affair, which concerns the financing of policy and the undue interweaving that arises between those who have continued to have working relations with the Council or have been successful in public procurement and then, at the same time, as private entities, have continued to finance the foundations linked to Renzi or, even, to preside over them. This is the case - for example - of lawyer Alberto Bianchi, about whom the journalist Antonio Polito, on the pages of the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera) has shared that, as president of the Renzi Foundation, he should have put an end to his working relations with the Council - he has received legal advice for almost 300,000 euros in the last four years - which assigns public contracts, in order to avoid exposing himself to suspicion - I say to the suspicion and no more - not to be neutral with regard to those who have paid the contributions, or worse to aggravate the risk that some entrepreneur can ask, in exchange for the money paid to the foundation, some favor, perhaps to the managing director of the Council, the Tuscan Luigi Marroni. The latter, precisely from Renzi, on a trust basis, had been appointed to that role and admitted in an interrogation that he had been pressured and blackmailed by the father of the former Premier Tiziano Renzi, by Denis Verdini and by parliamentarians related to him. These passages allow - for some only now - to explain transformative parliamentary practices deployed in recent years by the Renzi Government, not politically justified by parliamentary numbers - that is the point - that we have always denounced. During these years courageous books have come out - I think of that of the journalist Davide Vecchi de "il Fatto Quotidiano" - which told of an excess of proximity and closure of the magical lilies of Renzia. For example, they pointed out too clever games about private funding for Renzi-related foundations, which later found correspondences with public prebende and institutional roles assigned by the Premier in a tosco-florentine tour, where more than an idea of country emerged an idea of country: a sort of "My Friends" in government sauce. I do not want to be too abstract and therefore I refer, without wishing to express a judgment on their professionalism, to the Florentine Marco Seracini, accountant of the Renzian foundations, who has been appointed effective mayor of ENI; to the Sienese Fabrizio Landi, one of the funders of the Open Foundation, appointed on the board of directors of Finmeccanica; to the Pistoiese Federico Lovadina, appointed on the board of directors of the Ferrovie dello Stato; to his high school partner, Minister, the lawyer Marco Pucci, paid by Palazzo Chigi as expert of anniversaries. And these are just to mention a few cases. These complaints have been ignored or almost ignored in the years of ascent and rampantism, but they remain and must lead to reflect even on an excess of the Italian ruling classes (not only of politics) to grant - an ancient and recurrent vice - to this type of model of narrow and short power and, therefore, better conditional. I am sure that this reveals a backwardness of Italian capitalism, its propensity to strangle and provincialism, which shows a deficit of modernity and a genuine spirit of competitiveness that must be changed with reformist impetus. For all these reasons, we ask President Gentiloni Silveri to withdraw his delegation to Minister Lotti. If this does not happen, as I fear, we will have the confirmation that in Italy the debate between politics and justice concerns not the noble theme of guaranteeing, but only the relationships of force: with our friends or with the powerful we are indulgent; with the weak, with the poor or with our opponents rigorist. This is one of the worst bequests - let us say - of the Berlusconian season, which took place even in a part of our field, where instead the moral question was a polar star that has progressively blurred. The dichotomy between guaranteeing and justiceism has always constituted the trap of the triumphant Berlusconism of the Nineties-Two thousand, a trap in which we have not fallen into today too. Yet in Italian law there are guarantees and there is justice, but there is no guarantee and justiceism, one against the other armed in a meaningless war. In this way the Manzoni message that reaches the citizens, that of unjust justice, weak with the strong and strong with the weak, is extremely negative on the civil level and leads to increase the separation between them and the institutions. I mean, the doctor doesn't order him to be a minister. A politician who performs executive functions knows that credibility is everything, because there is a social capital, that is, the widespread and collective trust that members of a community have to one another and that it is based on the evaluation of public behaviour. Therefore, a minister more than another citizen must be above suspicion and cannot continue to perform his duties as a suspect. The institutions, Minister, are used and are not used to protect themselves better. Think about it and draw from it the necessary political consequences, only and exclusively political, to which the Italians await it. [[Applause from the Art.1-MDP Group and Senator Di Maggio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr Lotti, we have ancient doubts about the institution of the motion of individual distrust: an institutionally improper instrument, politically useless, inconsistent in terms of a guarantee that always applies to us and is not subordinate to the conveniences of the moment; that for us, Minister Lotti, whether the Minister is called Luca Lotti or that his name is Annamaria Cancellieri, Josefa Idem, Maurizio Lupi, Nunzia De Girolamo, Federica Guidi, and I could continue. I would like to reassure my fellow Members, Mr Falanga and Mr Repetti. We do not change our opinion because elsewhere there has been a variable geometry guarantee. But the political fact must be emphasized. Mr Lotti, I do not want to give you any advice, but perhaps in replying a word of self-criticism about what has been yours and your attitude in the past, compared to colleagues who have the same dignity and who must have the same respect and the same guarantees, it would be desirable. Our position, which is that of a guarantee on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday, would, however, have more reasons today and would be stronger if the Government of which you are Minister had not behaved contradictoryly and frankly incomprehensible. I ask you, Minister, to help me understand why, in conscience, I cannot understand. What do we have? We have the CEO of the Council who claims to have been notified by some people, among whom you, Minister Lotti, of the existence of an investigation that revolves around the company he administered and that, following the tip, thought well to have his office reclaimed by the wire. And we have you, Minister, who denies, even if you do not file a complaint for slander. Technically, the complaint may not be necessary, since slander is a procedural offence of office; but institutionally perhaps it is advisable, when there is at stake the goodness not only of one's own person, but also of the high office that is clothed. And again, we have the CEO of the Council who reports of a climate of pressure, intimidation and sometimes even blackmail around significant tenders, but does not say anything to the internal control bodies, does not mention it in the periodic information to the Minister of the economy and does not press charges to the judicial authority. In such situations, in the face of inappropriate and disturbing interlocutors, it would be enough to pretend to take notes and then throw them in the garbage (maybe by being careful in which bags end up), without following the undue demands. In the face of all this, Mr President, we have a Government that defends its Minister with the sword and does so on the substance, going far beyond the grammar of a guarantee method, but at the same time defends the one who charges the Minister with conduct of not little gravity. We have a government that defends the accused and in fact also defends the accuser, falling into an insanable contradiction since either Dr. Marroni tells the truth, and then would wrong the colleagues of Minister Lotti to defend him professing his innocence, or actually is Minister Lotti, and then Dr. Marroni is a slanderer of Ministers. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Council is not just any company. Consip is a company that has as its sole shareholder the Ministry of the Economy and as mission the transparency in the procurement and the use of the public money. It is not by chance that an ethical code has been provided which in point 3.2 (c) recommends that the recipients act impartially, transparently and correctly in their relations with third parties, avoiding the establishment of relations which are the result of external solicitations or which may generate a conflict of interest. Mr Lotti, it is clear that beyond the criminal aspects, on which the judiciary will pronounce itself, the code of ethics has already been violated. The affair in question has already cast a shadow of opacity and discredit on a society of this importance and on the government itself. Nor does it help to dispel the shadows that no concrete action appears to have been taken to, as a minimum, suspend the tenders under observation, in respect of which the managing director has revealed that he has been the subject of pressure or strange requests. We know that the suspension of the races may have costs, but in such a situation we cannot proceed with gimmicks, as it seems from the press indiscretions we want to do. Either a technically impeccable solution is found and is free from any discretion to carry out a radical transparency operation, or that of suspension is the way forward, because otherwise the cost in terms of clarity and credibility of the institutions would be well above the cost of money. Furthermore, with regard to the question of the necessary renewal of management, we cannot fail to note a certain strabism on the part of Minister Padoan, who I regret is not here. In the case concerning the Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena, with a share of 4%, Minister Padoan did not hesitate to raise the phone to ask for the removal of the managing director. On the contrary, in the affair concerning the Consip, which is the exclusive property of the Dicastery of Via XX Settembre, despite all that has emerged, we entrench ourselves behind formalisms and veils of newspapers, without taking any active action to rebuild the image of the company around a new leadership completely unrelated to the events we are discussing. Mr President, if the behaviour of the Government were not spoiled by this blatant contradiction that led to the absurdity; if the Executive and the majority party did not try to make us believe that it is normal to defend Minister Lotti by swearing on his innocence (although it is not the task of this House to ascertain it) and at the same time defend his accuser, leaving him in his place and even rejecting his offer of discharge, if the public statements made by Dr. Marroni in this sense are true some time ago; if from all this story it did not exhale the stale smell of blackmail, it would be easier for us to oppose a motion of individual distrust that, as I have already said, we consider methodologically wrong. However, since this is the unclear picture in which our debate fits, the Senators of the IDEA movement will try to combine their positions of principle with a pressing demand for clarity, not participating today in the vote on the motion of distrust. At the same time, we strongly urge the Government to exercise all its powers for the immediate renewal of the Council's summits, to initiate an administrative inquiry and then report back to Parliament, and to immediately suspend all the calls for undue pressure, demands and blackmail. The criminal judgment is not the responsibility of this House, but the political judgment is the case, Mr President. For this reason, we urge the immediate calendarization of an act that would allow us to exercise that political judgment and that perhaps will force the Government and the majority to deal with their contradictions, coming out of the comedy of absurdity. [[Applause from the GAL Group (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) and Senator Di Maggio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u22	Senator D'Anna is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u23	Mr President, I would actually have expected that the requirement against Matteo Renzi would be made by a fellow magistrate, such as Senator Lo Moro or Senator Casson. Seeing a historian like Senator Gotor getting horny doing the right thing in order to do the trial to the former President of the Council and former secretary of his party is kind of like. However, this repeated and articulated criticism of an absentee reveals in itself the true nature of the attack which - I do not want Minister Lotti - he is subjected as a terracotta pot between iron vessels. Minister Lotti is the subject of attention because he is Matteo Renzi's right-hand man. Having not yet managed to catch Renzi, they hook a family member or his right arm. On the other hand, there is no need for detailed evidence and facts. In this country we are accustomed to institute trials in the newspapers, fishing some dirty trash in the trash can. That is enough to ring a whole series of articles and broadcasts in which the theoretical castle is doomed to reality and that is enough because today, instead of doing more important things, we are here in the Chamber to allow Senator Gotor to "scramble" Renzi: this is actually the outcome of the motion under consideration. I want to remind Senator Gotor, having read also the work of Banfield, that the amoral familialism, which the author and wife recorded in the city of Chiaromonte, alias Montegrano, was nothing more than the absolute lack of the sense of public ethics, that is, of that set of values that reside in the law. I have already said before in this House that the greatest moral forgery that can be done is to replace one's own morals, one's own list of values, by selling them out of public ethics. A person holding public office must obey public ethics, i.e. he must not incur the violation of the law. I also made an example, which I repeat: it is as if I felt that I was impervious and morally regrettable that in this House there was a senator practicing abortion, as I was a convinced anti-abortionist. This, however, is my sphere of values; if that person practices abortion under the rule of law governing this matter, that gentleman, from the point of view of public ethics, is irreproachable. Obviously, however, it is no longer the law, but that is what Gotor or some other science philosopher, some other people in this House, like to say. We must remember then that Némesis, the goddess of vengeance, is a bizarre goddess, just as I must remind the Minister of Sport that the so vicious former president of the Regional Council of Sicily, Toto Cuffaro, has done four years in prison and is in Congo to be a doctor precisely because, in a certain way, he was responsible for having revealed to a radiologist, who had done one of the so much scams to the detriment of the National Health Service, which was under control. I'm just saying, just to understand. They were other times: they were the times - that one wants to reverberate - when, at the very least hint of a behavior that someone thought improvised or incorrect, before the judiciary - appointed to evaluate him - censored him from the point of view of public ethics, it was enough its opinion, undisputed and indisputable, to put the ill-capitulated, who in its opinion was responsible for violating its own way of seeing the world. That's not how it's gonna go. We should then remember - I say it in passant to Senator Gotor, who is a bit distracted - that Prodi did not do the contests when he called people like Sircana and that D'Alema did not make public competitions when he opened the merchant bank at Palazzo Chigi, with Velardi, Rondolino and so much more. Even if it is fresh from a baptismal source, dear Lotti, we should unveil to my colleague Gotor that politics in a massive pervasive state, such as the cryptosocialist one we have in Italy, makes 200-300 appointments in the various depths of the State; these appointments make those who hold the power democratically and take place, in most cases, intuitu personae, and choosing their own trusted persons, not the trusted people of Senator Gotor. On the other hand, Mr Bersani and Mr Fassino themselves have never raised the problem of how Giovanni Consorte wanted to climb Unipol and were also holders of a bank. I do not know from which Region Senator Gotor comes, nor do I know with which competition for titles and exams the members of the board of directors of Monte dei Paschi di Siena were chosen. Let us stop, then, with this empty and useless hypocrisy. There is a political problem here, that is, to make anyone understand that cheap morals are worth a lot of money and this motion may be worth less. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mineo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u25	Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the facts quickly and cleanse them of a certain animosity. We are faced with a fact of corruption, not yet tried in court, but evident, because the corrupt takes responsibility for it and because the corruptor was sent to prison, not already at the request of the prosecutor, but with a judgment of the judge for preliminary investigations. We are faced with a single purchasing power station, a cake that goes to intermediaries, corrupters and politicians who get corrupted. We are before a government that directly appoints those responsible for the Council. One could think of filters between the activity of the Executive and the appointments in certain types of public companies, but with the Renzi Government this power of appointment has become more brutal and wider: I remind you only the story of RAI. We are also faced with a certain familialism, whether amoral or not, but obvious. I believe that this political-judicial affair lies to the former President of the Council when he says that there is no so-called magic lily and that it is an invention of his opponents. In fact, Romeo, the corruptor, is a funder of a foundation that refers to the former President of the Council. Marroni himself was appointed by Renzi and apparently received Renzi's father. Then there is definitely a very strong relationship between the Renzi family and Carlo Russo, present in this affair or as a workman and mediator of bribes or at least as a millantator towards his own friends. Then there is Vannoni, of Publiacqua, friend of Renzi and Nardella, who perhaps speaks in vain, ladies senators, but bringing up Minister Lotti and accusing him of having warned him and the main exponents of the affair of investigations covered by secrecy and of bugs placed by investigators. A commander of the Carabinieri who, as such, is appointed by the Government and who, as commander, for an act of the Renzi Government that obliges the judicial police officers to report investigations to their hierarchical line, was aware of the investigation. If this kind of prediction that the Renzi Government introduced, that is, the obligation on the part of those who work with the judges who make the investigations to report to the hierarchical scale, there had been at the time of Dalla Chiesa and Falcone, perhaps Dalla Chiesa and Falcone would still be alive, because they could not have carried out their investigations. Well, if these are the facts, what can be deduced from these? Is Minister Lotti to leave because he was presumed guilty, as he seemed to listen to Senator Taverna's intervention, an intervention that would pale even the most brutal of the Sanculotti? Of course not. I believe, like many of us, in the presumption of innocence. Moreover, I want to say, at the moment there are no compelling evidence against Luca Lotti that there are, for example, against the corruptor Romeo. But in politics, as in Anglo-Saxon law, dear senators, the precedents are valid. Renzi asked the Chancellor for a step back, praised Errani who had made him his own and then said that those who were part of the PD were different. It's not like that anymore. It was on the side of those who wanted the resignation of Lupi, Guidi and De Girolamo and I must say that Senator Repetti is right when she says she remembers that Franceschini, who is an authoritative exponent of the Democratic Party, asked Bondi's resignation for a wall that had collapsed in Pompeii. Soon we will hear what the Minister has to say to this House. Soon we will listen to what the other members of the Democratic Party will say, who in the past had always gone away from a certain guarantee of convenience, which in this House lies above all in the benches facing me. We will hear and listen but everything I see and understand makes me assume that his answer will be the same and contrary to the intervention that opened our assise, the intervention that illustrated the motion of distrust, that is, the old device will be used to attack opponents in order to pass in silence their political responsibilities. President Gentiloni Silveri, why doesn't you apply in this case the same precautionary criterion that your party and the former President of the Council Renzi have asked for in all the precedents I have mentioned? Minister Lotti, I would like to address you: why do you not act like Errani and wait as a mere citizen for justice to sanction your innocence and then return absolutely without any responsibility and with honor, as the Constitution says we must serve the Republic? I think that we will not have these answers and, if we do not have them, we in the Italian Left will vote in favour of the motion of mistrust against Minister Lotti. [[Applause from the Misto-SI-SEL Group and Senator Bignami]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u26	He is enlisted to speak Senator De Cristofaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u27	Mr President, I believe that, first of all, one thing must be clarified and underlined: today we are debating the question of whether an investigated minister should remain in his place and not a guilty minister. For the Minister of Sport Lotti the presumption of innocence is valid, as should be the case for any Italian citizen, although, unfortunately, this often does not happen. The presumption of innocence concerns, however, criminal liability and it is the courts that have the task of ascertaining it. Political responsibility, on the other hand, is quite different and must be dealt with from a different perspective from that of criminal justice. It is not for the judiciary to deal with it, but for politics. For many years, indeed, perhaps for a few decades, these two plans, which should obviously remain completely distinct, have been confused, and I believe that they are deliberately confused. It is not by chance that all political forces - all of them - have been abandoning themselves for decades to a staging that has strongly contributed to delegitimizing politics all in the eyes of voters. I am talking about parties that discover guarantee when it suits them and forget it, instead, when it serves to attack political rivals. Governments, parties and majorities have for too long chosen according to the circumstances, the convenience of the moment and the perception of the moods of public opinion whether to make one side or the other prevail. One day they wake up more guarantors and one day more executionalists. I really hope that this motion will give us an opportunity to clarify once and for all. From a criminal point of view, Mr Lotti is not guilty, he is not convicted and he is not even a person put to trial. From a criminal point of view, the problem with this House does not even arise. But can we say the same from a political point of view? I don't think so. The situation is this: Minister Lotti is investigated because he is suspected of having warned the Council of the current investigation into corruption within the Council. To accuse the Minister, as we have learned, is Luigi Marroni, former council member to the health of the Tuscany Region, appointed by the Renzi Government CEO of Consip. The Minister defends himself by accusing Marroni of lying. Now, I ask: is there any harm in guaranteeing that at least one of them is not telling the truth about this point? Is there, I mean, a single possibility that both of them are telling the truth? It obviously doesn't exist, but both remain in place. The President of the Council takes the defenses of the Minister and, instead, the Minister of the economy those of the CEO of the Council. It's even and it's a deal. Is that right? Is it politically acceptable? Would it not be more correct and clearer for both of them to take a step back, at least until this simple thing is established, that is, which one of them tells the truth and who doesn't? In terms of political opportunity there is another element full of shadows and ambiguities. Is it true or not that during this parliamentary term - it has been recalled - Ministers were forced to resign while around other representatives of the Government - I think, for example, to the Undersecretaries - were real walls of protection raised? In recent years we have witnessed a great feast of alternating current guaranteeing: Ministers who were not even investigated were forced to resign, while other members of the Government, on whom much heavier charges were imposed, were defended by swords. Never, as in the current legislature, has this ambiguity between political responsibility and criminal responsibility, with which I have opened my speech, been used to sacrifice or defend according to the convenience of the moment or the greater or lesser protections that each one could have. We believe that this game must end. It is unacceptable for someone to be forced to resign without even the shadow of a suspect and someone else, on the other hand, to be protected by sword in the name of a guarantee that applies, precisely, to alternate plates, sometimes and sometimes not. I think we should say things openly, without any reluctance. None of us can know how the Council inquiry will end. It is not up to us to investigate those accusations, but from a political point of view it is certain that this case is based on an extremely worrying and, even if it is not, perturbed, without which - I say this to the Government - the case in question would have affected less public opinion than it has happened. Never before in recent years in this country had there been such a resounding and gigantic affirmation of familyism and the distribution of key places decided on the basis of friendships with the absolute leader, of the shadows continuously projected on the political proscenion for personal relations, friendship and family. It can't work. What must the prophets take advantage of the delegitimization of politics, those who take advantage of this disaster in which the politics of this country lies, if not of so many issues such as these? I am thinking, for example, of the rescue of the banks that called into question the father of one of the government's main Ministre then in office, just to tell one of them. Do you really believe that these things do not also have a profound effect on the moods of public opinion in this country? Do you really think it didn't really affect me to see the government's key places in the hands of a group of friends, children of friends, sometimes even in business relations between them? On this we must have the courage to move on once and for all, especially in a wounded country like this. I really don't know, I can't and I don't even want to know how the Council case ends in court. I don't want to know today. It's not my job. It is not up to me, and it is not up to us as senators of the Italian Republic nor to know it or even to draw him to guess, but once again this story evokes the same inextricable knot of political and private relations, of friendships and relatives, of rampant familialism, of what this country not only does not need, but brings gigantic damage; it builds a rampant anti-politics, fills the sails of those who think that we can, in fact, imagine another type of dynamic that can overcome even the democratic one. I therefore believe that, even in the face of these shadows, it would have been not only fair, but wise, responsible and clear, to take a step back; a momentary step backwards that would not have meant to any extent an admission of guilt (that is precisely the responsibility of the courts, not of us), but would have been a proof of responsibility. I find it very serious and wrong that the Minister and the Government have not felt the sensitivity to put this proof of responsibility into practice. For these reasons, Minister, the Italian Left will vote in favour of the motion of no confidence. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u28	Senator Buemi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u29	President Grasso, I would like you to let Senator Taverna and her Group colleagues know that it is true that we are glued to the chairs, but to the chairs of the work and constant commitment in the interest of this country and that we often left these chairs when the Italians decided to leave us at home. At the same time, we are not certain that they are capable of doing the same. So, Mr President, in order to avoid misunderstandings, as the month of September is approaching, if we do not want to mature what they call "vitality" (which also remain authoritative members of a government that there is no longer charged as our will), that they decide to resign, so as not to mature the vitality or the income deriving from the contributions made. I would like this doubt to be removed from us, and since the problem that might be posed to us is that others would still take over, the solution is technical: they would not ripen the four years, six months and one day, while colleagues who would take over would remain in office only a few months and should wait for the next parliamentary term to mature. I had to say this, Mr President, in order to close this shameful game, that at every speech the colleagues of the 5 Star Movement (and someone else for the truth) constantly call. But today, Mr Lotti, I don't want to talk about you. I want to talk about us: we parliamentarians, we political leaders, we voters, we victims, we executioners, we guilty, we innocent citizens. We cannot accept that a simple guarantee communication (and I say guarantee) be left to decide the political and personal destiny of a person, ally or political opponent. We are consistent and are not embarrassed; we were not embarrassed yesterday when we defended the positions of fellow opponents and we are not embarrassed today, Mr President, in defending the position of a minister and a government that we support. But the history of our country is complex, colleagues, and it is often contradictory, just as it is typical of Italian politics the habit to mix goats and cabbages and to alternate, according to necessity, the role of the goat to the fate of cabbage. I have white hair and I remember - perhaps I was already in Parliament - the story of Minister Mancuso: distrust of a Minister of Justice, not provided for by the law, but inaugurated by a practice. And here I am addressing my colleagues on my political side: a practice which we, colleagues from the centre-left, have inaugurated when we were to beat a minister from the centre-right. That practice that often replaces certain and written rules in our daily way of life, colleagues, has been further applied (Wolves, Guidi, Idem, Chancellors) and - I say it to future memory - will be worth for others who still have to come, if we do not change our behavior. I am a reformist, but I am not for the abolition of the rule of law, which is a written rule referring to our constitutional system. The latter - I say this for other colleagues who have spoken of innocence, but it is not our job to establish innocence - says in Article 27: Criminal liability is personal. The defendant is not considered guilty until his final conviction is met. There's a presumption of not guilty. Mr Lotti, I do not speak for you, because you have received a simple judicial communication, but I am speaking for the "judgments" that we write in our political assessment and in reading in a superficial way the writings of some penis that changes, depending on who is to speak, their political judgment. Regulation through the law. Speaking of us, colleagues, I believe that we are very late, because the article in the penal code on the trafficking of illicit influences, if not accompanied by precise legislation on influences, leaves a huge space for any exploitation. So I say that instead of discussing a motion of no confidence which has no legal substance, which is simply the application of a practice, which I do not agree with and which we do not agree with, we must take responsibility for adopting appropriate laws that leave it to the judiciary to investigate and judge, but to judge without the arbitrariness that inadequate laws make available. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot to do before us and with great consistency. Mr Lotti, we will not vote for mistrust, as we have never voted for it in other cases, but we all draw from this experience, from the past and from this present the precise indication for our future behaviour. [[Applause from the Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u30	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the position of Forza Italia is well known and the Holding Company in explanation of vote will confirm a choice of principle of Forza Italia, that of not using the instrument of individual motions of distrust because we do not believe in this type of method, so this will be clearly reiterated. However, I would like to take this opportunity, as other Members have done, for some political and general consideration, because the opportunity is important. As for the improper readings that have been given, the exchanges and so on, it is clear that there is no exchange here. Our opinion on the current government and some of the members of the recent political season is very critical. Minister Lotti, I would not vote for the individual motion of distrust of you because - perhaps you do not know because you are younger than me - I was investigated by Woodcock for having - according to him - revealed to a person to be intercepted. Same thing. It happened in 2003-2004, and it got ridiculous for him, and I don't add adjectives because then came a lawsuit for defamation. The Court of Ministers, within two months, with a very strict decision on Woodcock and with very harsh words on him, gave me reason to accept a judgment. But I didn't resign and no one filed a motion of no confidence. Life is made of experience, and remember this word that I will soon be quoting. Experiences are also love. I have also suffered a trial: a magistrate of Rome, the current exponent of the Court of Cassation Nello Rossi, wanted to trial me for an affair that I described in the past in the Senate; the senators listened and had confidence in me, because no one made controversy and then the court (not the one of the prosecution) gave me reason, I was acquitted and I must thank my colleagues for not making controversy. We are therefore guaranteed by experienced experience, by suffering injustices. I am then the last wheel of the chariot: here in our political group many other injustices have been suffered. Colleagues, I don't know what's going on, but today I read that the judge of the Court of Cassation who drew up the famous sentence against Silvio Berlusconi is being investigated for corruption. His name is Amadeo. He's retired. Of course, if we are guaranteed for ourselves and for Minister Lotti, we are also for Amadeo. First it was said that Berlusconi is controversial (it is possible that this judge Amadeo is a persecuted, maybe not, who knows?), however, that sentence that was written also changed the course of Italian political and democratic history and we did some critical evaluation. We could therefore talk about us and Woodcock, about us and Nello Rossi, a man who is at the Court of Cassation and who also hangs in the Senate (he also has relatives here: the castes are in the Senate, at the prosecutor's office, in the Court of Cassation). The General of the Finance Guard who accused me was called Mango, they wanted to arrest him a few weeks ago because they said it had something to do with the camorra. Maybe he's innocent, too, so don't mention it. In life you also have to wait, because sometimes you also take satisfactions, so from experience I recommend you stay calm and it seems to me that you have flaunted this calm. I'm not saying be quiet, Senator Serafini. This is a provocation from these intemperant colleagues: if I told her to stay calm it would be an offense. Everyone has their own experiences. To Senator Gotor, who told me before he told me that Berlusconism gave bad teachings, I would say that Calderoli resigned as Minister for a shirt and a fierce controversy of the Left, but it is not that the course of history in Libya made Calderoli's T-shirts. The mistakes of Obama, Cameron, Sarkozy, also encouraged - alas - by some senator for life, have done more damage than Calderoli's shirt. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] This, however, is another story. You have to learn that there are strange cases. Let me ask my colleagues in the AL-A Group: why is Verdini going to lunch with Carboni the P3, which led to investigations and judgments, while if he goes to the father of the Undersecretary Boschi, Carboni becomes a headhunter? So Carboni has a double life: if he talks to you, he's a headhunter, if he's having lunch with Verdini, they're P3. However, I have read the newspapers and I must say that they were not whimsical, but almost ridiculous. One of the intercepted said: we do not count any...; this is because they counted nothing (but he did not say the word: "nothing"). Even coals, however, are black or not depending on events. We could mention a lot of other cases. You have made political errors of presumption, because you lacked experience, Minister Lotti. We in the criminal case are guaranteed and we wish you all the good that you can do; those who have to do your job will do so. I mentioned previous ones precisely in order to invite you to the utmost confidence and we have done so that trust in justice we would have a little less right to have seen today's news, but we will talk about this on another occasion. You've been a little presumptuous on so many occasions. On the traffic of influences I invite you to read the speeches of Senator Caliendo when there was the Monti Government and it seemed that those who were against those measures were favorable to corruption; on that occasion, in the interventions of Mugnai, Caliendo and also of others (I was the Holding Company), we tried to say to be careful and to wonder what was and what was meant by traffic of influences. Appointments must be made and someone who has a certain position must choose a CEO: if one has a democratic mandate he must exercise it. So if one says one person is better than another, that's a crime? If there isn't a provence, if there isn't a partition, it's a simple choice. So you should also reflect on the demagogy that has been rampant for too long. I was talking about political mistakes; it's not about his judicial affair. President Renzi, when he had confidence - I have here his speech - said that he would be the last to ask the Senate for trust. Do you remember that? You were also Undersecretary. He came here and said he'd be the last one. The Senate is still there. Renzi at Palazzo Chigi is gone. So, he had that lattanza, that somewhat exaggerated presumption, which is not a criminal offense, but is precisely presumptuous. Or, I tell my colleagues in the Article 1-MDP Group that the splits have not been done because there is no D'Alema in the European Commission but there is Mogherini. By the way, choose a simpler name if you want to be voted on. People already don't understand us politicians. It's a complicated name, but it's your business. I say this to Senator Gotor, who gives counsel to us; I give him one, since they are generous. It is not that they split because Mogherini went to Europe and not D'Alema. As a right-wing man, who by history is more right-wing than his Group's average (and I am not ashamed of it), I say that perhaps it was better to send D'Alema to Europe than Mogherini, of which nobody noticed in Europe. And also with regard to the reforms, I remember that you came here at night to attend the debate and that once we also had a nice debate, started in a way that was not nice but then dedramatized. You should have gone on with less presumptuousness that path of reform, without the arrogance towards the right center and Silvio Berlusconi, with the arrogance of the game over, intolerable, of the triumphant renzism, because on the reforms you had to do as you said, so the prize was no longer at the coalition but at the list. And the President of the Republic, whom I know from before, is more than you, if only for seniority, and which I respect very much, was proposed in ways that seemed like a sycumera. There is a reflection that you must make after December 4, after this attack, against which I do not make criminal assessments. We are guaranteed, but, my friends, that you have arrived from Florence "to come from heaven to earth to miracol show", as Father Dante of Beatrice said, that "so kind and so honest it seems", you arrived and you had to scrap, innovate, revolutionize, shake and, in the end, you have the father, the friend, the relative, the appointed. All criminally irrelevant, but how old Italy in this behavioral style! There was no need for the revolution of the Florentine lily to have the president of the Foundation, Bianchi, who became the board of directors of the important agency and then goes to Romeo to ask for the contribution. It will all be criminally irrelevant, but it's not very new, it's not very modern. These things have already been seen throughout Italian life. Sometimes they have led to crimes and sometimes they have only been behavior. So, you didn't innovate anything. That is the morale I would like to draw. As I said at the beginning, each of us went through sweet and loving experiences, arriving intact, honest and incensored. I remembered an episode, but I want to remember all this. Mr President, we practice guaranteeing erga omnes. Improper parliamentary instruments do not use them against anyone, but we remember that presumption of the game over, that way of setting a path of reform, that way of handling breaks to the left as to the right center. This experience of these months should bring you back with your feet on the ground. Then, if such an attorney behaved improperly, others will have to judge him. The money, the contributions, the Council: some spoke of other motions. I believe, however, that you have not come to show any miracles on earth. You are Italians, like that of the song "L'italiano" (Italian), sung by Toto Cutugno. Perhaps you will switch from the "miracol show" to some song by any Italian singer-songwriter. Welcome to Italy, which has many old defects, which you also carry with you. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we have seen an interesting debate today, in some ways profoundly. We have known very different facets and opinions. We have also heard many lies, many forcings, an instrumental approach to politics. I am obliged, at least because we have long fought in the same party, to devote a brief part of my speech to the reasoning made by Senator Gotor. A comment maybe trivial, maybe brief. I have noticed a strange coherence - let us call it this - in its behaviours and in its positions; the consistency that the Democratic Party had on the events of Senator Bubbico, of which I have great esteem, and on the events of President Errani, of whom I have great esteem. The coherence that we in the Democratic Party have today appears far from the sad, vengeful, provocative and dissatisfied spirit, witnessed by Miguel Gotor's threatening intervention. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Of course, he's a minacious man against Gentiloni Silveri and his government. We note this; I am convinced that he was not speaking on behalf of his Group. The receipt of warranty information or an investigation notice shall not involve any automatic assessment of the seriousness of the behaviour potentially held by the spokesman. This is an important and interesting sentence: it is the passage concerning the warranty notices contained in the code of conduct of the 5 Star Movement in case of involvement in judicial events, published - allow me - providentially on 3 January of this year. Yes, providentially. Provisionally because, after only a few days, the mayor of Rome Virginia Raggi will receive his first warranty notice for office abuse and forgery in public act. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Malan]] The same crime (office abuse) will be again contested by the first town of the capital, this time in competition with its former secretary, Salvatore Romeo, on 7 February. Ladies and gentlemen, thankfully also thanks to the new code of conduct, much more guaranteed than in the past, wanted by Beppe Grillo, Virginia Raggi is still in his place, as it is right that it should be [[Comments from the M5S Group]] , waiting for the judiciary to express itself with an acquittal (we hope so) or, alas, with a sentence of condemnation. We'll see. What I'm going to read to you is instead the comment that the then secretary of the Democratic Party Matteo Renzi made, immediately after the first notice of guarantee received by the mayor of Rome: Today the mayor of Rome received a warranty notice. Our Constitution provides for all citizens to be innocent until their judgment has been finalized. And that goes for everyone, whatever party they belong to. I therefore call on the entire Democratic Party to respect the presumption of innocence and not to chase the controversy. The Rays do their work, to which the citizens of Rome have called, and show what is worth, they are capable. I know, I know, some of you will now tell me that the 5 Stars use double standards and that their attitude is unfair and contradictory. Okay, it's true, you're right, but what does that change? If they're wrong, should we be wrong, too? Let's prove we're really different. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We don't look for court shortcuts, we don't give in to hate for the opponent, we don't attack Virginia Rays, we don't do it today. Did you get a warranty notice? Okay, let's hope he's innocent. Let us hope for you, for Rome, for those who still believe in politics. These are the words of Matteo Renzi, whom I quoted so that we cannot say that PD uses justice to weaken its opponents. So let us resonate today, in this House, a sacred principle of our democracy, a sacred principle for all those who care about the quality of our democratic life. It is the second paragraph of Article 27: "The defendant shall not be found guilty until his final sentence is final." We also read Article 6 (2) of the European Convention on Human Rights: Any person accused of a crime shall be presumed innocent until his guilt has been legally established. They are sacred principles, the ABC of our democracies, and they must apply to everyone. Valgano for the common citizen, apply to Stefano Graziano, apply to Filippo Nogarin [[Comments and hilarity from the M5S Group]] , mayor of Livorno, also accused, among others, of office abuse, are valid for Vasco Errani and apply exactly the same way to Luca Lotti. There is a clear logical leap in the behavior of a parliamentary group that moves from more bizarre justiceism to a form of guarantee exercised - be careful - only to its administrators, who - alas - in increasing numbers throughout Italy - I am sorry - are the subject of warranty notices. Why can Virginia Rays legitimately continue to perform her duties, with the blessing of Beppe Grillo, Luigi Di Maio and Alessandro Di Battista, while Luca Lotti should resign? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Luigi Di Maio explained this unexpectedly a few days in the newspapers, saying that the two cases are not comparable and that he does not find that the Rays took money from someone who is now in jail. This is Luigi Di Maio's statement. He then accuses Minister Lotti of a crime that no one has ever accused him of. In the criminal rage translated into the motion of distrust in question, he perhaps forgot to read the hypothesis of crime contested by the Minister or, if he has read it, he did not understand it very well, which, moreover - alas - has already happened to him in the past. This isn't about money, and allow me, not even about policies. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Luca Lotti received a warranty notice for revelations of office secrecy. It is his word against the reconstruction made by the prosecutor on the basis of the interrogations to Luigi Marroni, a manager who for eight years was director of the ASL of Florence, in close relationship with the regional council member to health Enrico Rossi and, then, to the leadership of the same council member to health once Enrico Rossi was elected President of the Regional Council of Tuscany. The Marroni engineer himself - today's news - incomprehensiblely escaped from the defensive interrogation, arranged by the defense itself. On this we will listen to Minister Lotti and understand what happened. I would also like to remind you that Minister Lotti went spontaneously and - I must say - quickly to the judges on December 27, 2016, between Christmas and New Year's Eve. The Democratic Party, in fact, does not run away from the investigations and even today we ask those judges one simple thing: do quickly and well. That's all we ask the judges. To Luigi Di Maio we remind therefore that Minister Lotti is foreign to hypothesis of crime that concern bribes and contracts, that he has never dealt with the Council and that he does not know and never has known Dr Romeo. There are no telephone or environmental interceptions that demonstrate some responsibility of Lotti as the source of the secreted news. We therefore expect the judges to let us know as soon as possible what decisions will be taken. Allow me to give advice to the 5 Star Movement Group: avoid being the same as you did with Stefano Graziano. You cannot always count on the short memory of the Italians, you were wrong and you must apologize for what you said. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I want to remember quickly the story that involved the President of the Democratic Party of Campania. Graziano was defined by the prode Luigi Di Maio: "without a shadow of doubt the reference of the Clans of the Casalesi from the point of view of the votes in Campania." After the hypothesis of external competition, which fell in July 2016, the accusation of electoral corruption was also filed on 23 February 2016. He is simply innocent, as eight magistrates of two prosecutors have established. This is how we behave in the face of justice: we expect judgment. Maio, since he will never be tried (we have understood this), must at least have the courage and ethics to apologize. In this House, in the course of the debate on the motion of distrust, moreover, the fifteenth tabled by the 5 Star Movement in this legislature, it must be emphasized once and for all that the presumption of innocence is a serious matter. Moreover, this is a sacred principle which cannot be called into question either by a journalistic campaign or by the visibility requirements of a political group. It's serious, politics is serious. In a civilized country, a warning of guarantee cannot become the prelude to a media and political prelude, because this is what, for weeks and weeks, has been based on journalistic articles, specialized in the art of allusion and insinuation and not in the art of facts; indeed, the facts have been deliberately forgotten. At the center of this media pillage is the Democratic Party and there is Matteo Renzi. The Democratic Party is the only embankment, which enjoys broad popular consensus, the only party organized in Italy, the only party that confronts itself in the open field with real primary, which has the comparison in its DNA. Media humiliation cannot be the solution for Virginia Rays, for Luca Lotti, as for all Italian citizens, who are and remain innocent until their guilt has been established. For the interest of our country, alongside the Government Gentiloni Silveri, so that Italy can continue a virtuous process of relaunching, so that politics returns to be the highest moment of confrontation, our Group, Mr President, will vote no to this instrumental motion of distrust, wanted by Beppe Grillo and his blog. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpE) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u34	The debate is closed. You asked the Minister for Sport, Mr Lotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u35	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the motion of distrust tabled by representatives of the 5 Star Movement calls into question the most valuable of my possessions: my morality, even before my political role. With much humility, but also with the full awareness of those who believe in politics as the highest form of civil service, I address you, gentlemen of the Senate, to reject this attempt with determination. I do this very briefly, both in terms of the facts and in political terms. The facts are clear: I have never notified Marroni engineer, nor anyone else, of a Council investigation, nor have I ever given him any other confidential information. Never! To support the opposite means to incur, today or tomorrow, the crime of slander. I find myself in a very simple position: this supposed revelation has never been there. The magistrates, who carry out their work with dedication and professionalism, have had access from the undersigned to all the documentation of the case, including my agendas, my movements, the entrances in my office, and my lawyers are working fully, also through the instrument of the defensive investigations. I, before you, have interest in the truth, because the truth comes and when it comes brings with it, clearly, the responsibilities, even those of those who lied, for fear or for other reasons, that it is not up to me to investigate. Here you find a citizen, parliamentary and Minister protempore, who reaffirms his confidence in the Italian judicial system and who is sure of the truth. I would like to see the facts on a sheet of paper, because I know that neither I nor my collaborators have done anything wrong. However, I have learned to be patient, to know that time is truly gallant man, to have an unshakable trust in reality and therefore I accept the shameful exploitation of these hours with a high head and an open face. To those who are spitting sentences today, I mean: We await you in court, in every way, because for us the judgments make you judges, not the blog, the courts and no others. I hope that those who, even in these hours, have severely insulted the good name of my family and the people who work with me, will have the courage to give up parliamentary immunity to be judged. The facts are clear: I have never talked to Marroni or to others about a Council investigation, I want to repeat it. Those who argue the opposite simply lie. However, I am not so foolish as to think that this is the real interest of the motion. The story dates back to December and I spontaneously introduced myself, immediately after Christmas, to the magistrates. How come only now, suddenly, there is a motion of distrust? It's obvious to me. Here today there is an attempt to strike me, not for what I am, the Minister for Sport - a valuable and crucial delegation, for which I thank President Gentiloni Silveri and, through him, President Mattarella - but for what I also represent in my little one. In other words, we try to question the reformist effort of these years, to which I too have collaborated from Florence. I owe you deep sincerity. It is legitimate, and perhaps even physiological, that many people, even here, have doubts about the efficiency of government action in recent years, an action that I strongly claim, but which can and must find in Parliament a solid criticism of oppositions of various kinds. What cannot happen, however, is that one tries to liquidate that experience through the exploitation of a judicial investigation that will take its course and ascertain the facts. Those who want to attack us for our political results have the right and even the duty to do so; But those who turn an investigation into politics do harm to themselves, not just to us. This country, because of widespread responsibilities also of our political side, has too often allowed judicial controversy to replace politics and I have done so, not because of the responsibilities of the magistrates, which we never attack, but because of the weakness of the political class itself. My party and my government came to this House to say that we would never allow the equation between guarantee notice and resignation. We have said this for our colleagues in the government, also for those of political forces who today ask instead for a step back, showing themselves culturally subordinate and politically incorrect. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We have said this, however, also for our political opponents, starting with the most important institutional figures of the 5 Star Movement. The intermittent guarantee of those who one day defend their mayors and one day dumps them on the basis of the degree of closeness to the head is profoundly unfair. Four years ago this legislature began under bad auspices: the difficulty of forming a majority, people outside Parliament to challenge, the feeling of inability of the political class to face the main nodes of the country. I remember those hours well because I didn't spend them in Montecitorio, but in a Florentine hospital where my first son was born, who is now four years old. During these four years, as my son grew up, he learned to walk, speak and go to school, I have served my country, never failing any legal obligation and, above all, never failing the oath to serve Italy with discipline and honor. Those of you who have known me know that this is simply the truth. Having to defend it from exploitation is part of the game, of the rules of the game perhaps, but it is at stake barbaric because, while it is right to fight harshly on the content, on the reforms, on the laws, on the vision of the country, it must be strongly rejected the attempt to make this Assembly a media pomp, with processes based on the hearsay and without any rag of proof. To those who have tabled this motion I say that we do not accept moral lessons from a movement founded by a prejudiced person who changes his position on justice on the basis of his own internal balances. Italy needs civil confrontation on the merits, not demagogy. Leave the trials to those who have to do them and know how to do them, the judges and lawyers, and start making politics, the one with the capital "P," if you think you can do it. [[Applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpE) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u36	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u39	Tarquinio (CoR). Mr President, of course I find it difficult to speak. [[Brusio]] Please, senators, please listen to the last of you. It is a particular, difficult moment and, as Senator Augello said, we will leave the Chamber, even if I, dear Minister Lotti, who unfortunately have my age - I am from 1949 - and I come from other periods, I would advise you not to make mistakes, Minister, and to listen to me and other colleagues. There is time for appreciation and handshakes. This way of doing things is wrong. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Take an example from President Gentiloni Silveri who is always very attentive to these things and listens to everyone, because it is a vice that has cost Renzi dear not respect of colleagues, whoever they were. [[Applause from the M5S and LN-Aut groups.]] You always have to do this, otherwise we're not there. I appreciated your attitude because I expected an arrogant reply that would have been wrong, as was the arrogant general line-up of ministers. It would have been better to have a more sober and serene, direct, human debate. You have included some elements of humanity in your reply, but such humanity must always be there, even at the sides. I personally find myself in difficulty because you, however, are militating in a political force, the Democratic Party, which this season, in these classrooms, began in 1994, 1995 and 1996, when many people were literally massacred and other valuable interventions by other parliamentarians and senators - I say this with serenity - of much more and very high cultural level, certainly compared to me, were delighted and massacred by the judiciary, by a bloodthirsty press and by many colleagues. 80% of those gentlemen were then acquitted. Imagine what a spirit of guarantee we always have, however, and we also express this guarantee against him by not participating in the vote, even if, within us, we have our reasons to decide to vote against her, in a presumptuous way, as has always been the case in recent decades on your part, even in more recent times. The problem of a culture of democracy and guaranteeing is a serious problem. This country has plunged into non-democracy and non-guarantee and it is not intended to examine what it has been. How long has a warranty notice dropped governments, destroyed political careers and personal careers, destroyed lives? For how long? Doesn't anyone want to talk about it? Doesn't anyone atone for what happened yesterday? Today's problem is the same as it was twenty-five years ago: this embarrassment, this tribute to a mistress press, who often decides his or her career with an article and nobody says anything because, as long as it's up to others, everything is fine. The guarantee is a serious problem and must not concern only its own political part, otherwise it results in faction and faction means war and confrontation, certainly not the good of the country. We are consistent with what belongs to us always and in any case, even if we have passed, me and other friends, for judicial events that have seen us promptly acquitted because the fact does not exist and none of us has ever dreamed of asking for compensation, because citizens do not have to pay for the errors of the judiciary that is not immune from sins. After all, if we do not deal with the problem as a whole, we are not there. 18.05 p.m. (Tarquinio followed). The wrong party has to pay. Minister Lotti, we have given our answer today: the inefficiencies of the judiciary do not solve them by increasing the limits of the prescription and not by going on the subject. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Rizzotti]] Some people are perfect and some are not. How do we want to fix this democracy - I am addressing everyone - if we do not serenely review everything and do not consider friends those who help us on a path? Anyway, those who are being used today will be slaughtered tomorrow. It is the nemesis that is about to strike you and that I do not accept. I will never accept that a warranty notice could bring down a minister, a mayor or whoever it is. Let's have the course. To resign or not is to the sensitivity of each of us. It's a different problem. I judge the work of a minister, as he exercises his delegation. On this we move and we would like everyone to move and that, especially from the benches in front of me, a review of what has been. I am talking, first of all, about a cultural review; there would be so many real cases of conscience. Contradictions are of no use to anyone. If you take advantage today of the favorable moment, tomorrow you will be impressed, as it is happening and as, unfortunately, it will happen again. We all need to be checked. There's a reporter who says we should have everything under judicial control. The basic problem in Italy is another, but all of you are afraid to talk about it: who controls the judiciary? Themself? It is not possible because it is not a perfect world even theirs, as ours is not. But you don't want to say it and face it. This is a problem that undermines the democracy of this country and no one speaks. Someone later will ask me why I intervened and why I seek retaliation. Can a Member be afraid of the retaliation of justice? This is what we're doing in this country. This is the real fact and it is what is happening to you, but we give an answer to you, to the Democratic Party, to what was yesterday (SD, PCI). She is young, but if she had lived the season of bribes she would have experienced hallucinating human events, massacred people and who committed suicide. I am also referring to people from regional and municipal councils who have been acquitted after years because there is no such thing. Who paid? No one; indeed, they have made bright careers. Let's not deal with this. There are those who are untouchable and who can be touched according to the moment, the sympathies and how convenient it is. It's partly your turn today. Our answer is not to take part in the vote because we do not accept the fury from wherever it comes and to whomever it is addressed. If I have to defend my little friends tomorrow, I'll defend them without any problem. I hope that they will do the same to me and to anyone else, beyond everything. Violent political criticism is welcome. How many did we tell Renzi? Dear Minister Lotti, we have come out of Forza Italia on constitutional reform and on Italicum with bare hands, without governments and without prebende. We have done so in a spirit of coherence, which we continue to have today, even with respect to a past and values in which we believe and for which we would have liked to have fought for democracy. I hope that the Democratic Party will grow and become truly democratic - especially towards the outside world - and affirm a centrality that must exist in this country. The centrality of the country is Parliament, with all its defects and various facets. It can't be anywhere else, otherwise we'll close because there's no democracy anymore. This is a parliamentary democracy and it is still a Republic. You tried to annihilate her. You didn't realize how bad it was to annihilate the Senate. None of you have seen the story. Without roots and the past you have no future. You're not going to build anything but what's there, which is dramatic. I am referring to what we see in the squares and in the people. Those who govern cannot have emotional waves, but must come to this House, respond to all the senators and respect them. You cannot come to this House, as President Renzi did, saying that this was the last time the Senate would vote for a trust. [[Applause from Senators Bignami and Bulgarelli]] It was an offense to the Senate itself, to what it represents. Mr Lotti, we are going out of the Chamber with serenity. We will not participate in any massacre, never; but I say to everyone, even to you on the left: let's change. It is not arrogance, mine and that of my colleagues, to think that they should not have to change. We believe in what we say and we have been protesting for so many years: we have never drove against anyone, we have never offended anyone. We have only defended what is no longer in this country. It is the reality: once there was a real democracy, a real debate. Once Parliament was the center of the country; once Parliament met the needs of the people. Today all this is gone and must come back, for the youngest, not for me. I hope, before I go to the other side, to see a different country. I haven't liked this country for many years now and I've been in institutions for a lifetime. I'm not doing anything. I have been head of staff of the Mint State Polygraph Institute, for people I have made the profession of politician, unfortunately; I have been regional advisor for many years, always elected with preferences (and as for preferences, although I have been elected with preferences, I tell you to think about it very well, because they are quite dangerous for the times we live). It is a state that is no longer, in all respects, Minister Lotti. Let's get off track. I see that Minister Minniti is no longer here.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u40	I invite you to conclude, Senator Tarquinio.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u41	Tarquinio (CoR). It's a state that's gone. This is the reflection, but it is a reflection that you must also make, because you have participated in moments of arrogance in the Renzi Government: don't be, otherwise your career will be short for this. It is not a threat, but a political consideration. I can't threaten anyone. You realize that, because it's important. [[Applause from the CoR and FI-PdL XVII groups and Senator Bignami. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u44	Hundreds of thousands (LN-Aut). Minister, we have listened to you well, we have been informed, we have studied before today and it is in the eyes of all that we have two servants of the State, you and Dr. Marroni, who say two different things: one says white and the other says black. One of the two minds, because there can be no gray; there is no gray when two people say two different things. We just have to understand and try to decide who to believe: believe her or believe Marroni? You, Minister, accuse and point the finger at those who say otherwise than what you said, but who says otherwise, Minister, is precisely Marroni, the person you have appointed. We didn't mention her, you mentioned her, the friend of friends of friends. So, the question that we ask you Minister, why was there time, is: did you sue Marroni? You, Minister, and your lawyers have sued Brown? You, Minister, as an important political body, why is it useless to hide behind the statement that you have only such a Ministry and so, asked for the resignation of Marroni? We wanted an answer to these questions. Minister, the finger you pointed towards your colleagues in the 5 Star Movement and indirectly also towards us, because we too will vote on the motion of distrust, you must not point it towards us; you point it towards the North, your Region, your home, your friends and the people you have appointed. I read you something: "The Chancellor also leaves without warranty notice. It's a political problem, not a judicial one. Institutional authority has been undermined. The President-in-Office of the Council says "I put my face to it," takes responsibility for the matter, I wouldn't do it in him, or the PD has to vote." If the Minister of Justice changes, the Letta Government is stronger, not weaker. Matteo Renzi, Corriere della Sera, 20 November 2013. This leaves me with a sense of sadness. The problem is not the resignation of Chancellors, the problem is that trust in institutions is at stake. I would have resigned instead of him.The serious point of the story is that once again you have given yourself the image of a country in which there are preferential lanes for friends of friends. Gian Marco Centinario doesn't speak of himself as a woman, but he was the Minister Maria Elena Boschi, at "Ballarò" on November 16, 2013, always on the case of Chancellors. You resigned, when did this happen to Minister Boschi? No, but seen and considered that he had said that he would abandon politics if he had lost the referendum on December 4th, the word of his friends is worth as much paper shredded. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S groups and Senators Bignami and Rizzotti]] "We resign on political and ethical issues, not on warranty notices": Matteo Renzi, March 22, 2015, on the Lupi case. Then, Minister, we are, as they have also pointed out, distinguished colleagues before me, with the cases of Nunzia De Girolamo, our colleague Josefa Idem, Maurizio Lupi, Minister Guidi and Minister Cancelleri. The future and credibility of the institutions were at stake for these people and for these representatives of the State. Then came Minister Boschi and Minister Lotti, for whom the protection of the magic lily is worth: they represent the institutions but are untouchable. If you're friends with Renzi, you're protected; if you're a minister, I'm sorry, but you're screwed, you have to go home. Senator Repetti, there is a big difference between the unworthy motion of distrust that had been presented against then Minister Bondi and this. You want to compare the collapse of a wall to Pompeii with what we're seeing? Do you know, dear colleague, that the collapses continue in Pompeii and Minister Franceschini is still in his place? Bondi's fault - alas for her - was to be invisible to the left-wing snob intelligence, which holds the monopoly of culture in Italy. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti.]] Vote for what he wants. The family, the magic lily, the business, the foundations, the family banks: a grey area, Minister, where the "Gianni Letta di Renzi" seems to splash us blessed and happy, until today. A world divided between politics and business, where the only goal is to set up friends so as to occupy as many places as possible. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, let us open our eyes and ears well, because in a few days the market for appointments in state companies will start and we must please the friends of friends of friends, those who paid. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Bottici]] Meanwhile, Minister, out of here - perhaps you do not know - there are 4.2 million Italians living below the poverty line and who are not friends with friends of friends and who unfortunately will not benefit from your services. You have to resign, even because you're not doing anything for sport. Nothing. This is another reason why we ask for his resignation: zero, nothing is known about what he is doing for sport in Italy. An apparently useless delegation, as you say, that you contracted to Mr. Malagò, the true Minister of Sport. The only time we heard about her was for the Ryder Cup: 97 million euros. [[Applause from the LN-Aut and M5S Groups and Senator Rizzotti]] You all remember, there was a good debate; it was the only moment in which this Government remembered that there is also sport in Italy. No, I remember also when Renzi went to shake hands with the athletes, who then inevitably lost their medals, given the bad luck he was wearing. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Rizzotti]] But who's behind the Ryder Cup organizing committee? The son of Gianni Letta, Frattini's wife, Renziano Barilla, the former president of RAI Gubitosi, the president of CONI Malagò, the CONI Servizi (true bank of CONI). My impression - and I take responsibility - is that you have infected sport as well. We vote for mistrust because a message must be sent to you: we do not trust you and your way of working. However, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to teach anyone anything and this is also a personal opinion: at this moment, to present a motion of distrust is a mistake, because those who vote for it are always the usual ones and because tomorrow the newspapers and televisions will say: Madame Marquise has gone well; Parliament has given the green light to the fact that the Minister is totally innocent, that everything is fine, and that he is cleared. As the Parliament of the Cadrega is working on it, the motions of mistrust no longer serve any purpose. Even if we vote for it, because we believe in what we have said so far. So, Minister, I end my speech by using less than ten minutes at my disposal and by pointing out that one says white and the other says black. At this point, we ask the President of the Senate to put two corridors: one for mistrust of the Minister and one for mistrust of Marroni. You tell us, Minister, which way we have to go. [[Applause from the LN-Aut Group and Senator Puglia.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u45	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "1° Polo" of Monteroni di Lecce, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u48	WAR (Art. 1-MDP). Madam President, the opinion that we, as a democratic and progressive movement, give of the affair on which we are called today is what we expressed in the motion that we tabled yesterday and which was recalled in its contents by Senator Gotor. What disturbs this story are the narrow networks, the friendships, the favors, the pressures that are told to us and that speak of a closed world, even territorially circumscribed, with non-transparent ties or, worse, with ties of interest between economic affairs and the world of politics, from which it is appropriate that the institutions and in particular the Government, one of the most delicate and important institutions of the country, be kept out. That's why, Minister, we've been asking you for a step back for days to untie the destinies of the government from those of your person. It is a necessary choice, in our opinion, regardless of his innocence or guilt, because the government of the country is not a center of power, but a place of service, of service to the country, and when personal destinies risk damaging the institution to which one belongs, there is no doubt that, regardless of the truth of the accusations to which he has submitted, a step back is appropriate. We do not vote on the motion of the 5 Star Movement because the arguments that support it are mainly of the judicial type and we believe that the pronunciation of the eventual condemnation in this field is the responsibility of the judiciary and not of Parliament. Our judgment on the matter we are talking about today is not a criminally guilty assessment, but a political judgment. We do not vote on the motion of the 5 Star Movement also because its aim is to assimilate an individual distrust to a distrust to the Government in its entirety. On the other hand, we want and ask that the Executive in the first person (the Government that we support) take responsibility for the contradiction that sees attested on versions of the facts between them opposite a Minister of the Republic and the managing director of the society that manages on behalf of the Treasury public procurements of the value of billions. The government, that is, cannot give at the same time confidence, as it is doing, to Lotti and Marroni. We want and demand that the Commission dissolve the knot represented by those short networks to which I mentioned earlier, by those too close links between characters who play too many parts in the same comedy. We also call for the Government to avoid the risk of shadows, doubts that may hinder its action, by securing its very existence, by restoring transparency to the work of its members. That is why we have tabled our motion and that is why we will not be voting on the motion we are debating today. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u51	FERRARA Mario (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Mr. Lotti, you just heard a "war declaration," but with us I invite you to stay calm. I understand that today it is the Ideas of March (today it is March 15), but be serene: you are not Caesar, even if this is the Senate of Rome, what you wanted to bring into a camp of manipolis, regional councilors and mayors. This is the Senate of Rome and there are no Cassius and Brutus, although it seems to me that some political part in recent days has had an industrial production of Cassius and Brutus. In truth, I am convinced that you, Minister, with your cause, are in truth only two messies and that you are not the interpreters of a tragedy, like the many writings on Brutus and Caesar, but the interpreters of a comedy. A comedy of misunderstandings, whose cloth began to be written many years ago, in 1984, continued to be written in 1995 and perfected in the last few days. In 1984, Mr Lotti and the journalists who are listening to us, the beginning of an incredible comedy, that of the position of individual trust issues, was consumed in this House. President Cossiga then presided, very attentive to the rights of the minority but obedient to the deliberate majority, and there was a political part that, having to wage war with Andreotti, Minister of Foreign Affairs at that time, posed a question of distrust. Cossiga did not know how to act and submitted the matter to the junta for the Rules of Procedure, thinking that the junta for the Rules of Procedure would resolve the problem and dismiss the matter. The Council for the Rules of Procedure, instead (it was already a prodromic aspect to what will then be the great crisis that will generate Tangentopoli, the crisis of the nineties), in a suicidal way decided to admit the issue. President Perna intervened in this House, and then also Chiaromonte and Colayanni, but more than anyone spoke to President Perna, who intervened for about an hour. Senator Perna, who was President of the PCI Group for ten years, said that this was a loosely resolved issue, to allow one part of the Christian Democracy to turn against another. For the heterogenesis of the ends, everything that was declared wrong in 1984 was then used by the same political side against Mancuso in 1995. What do I mean? I mean, to myself, to the government and to all of us, that the Rules of Procedure are something to be handled with care. Today we are debating an issue that seems to be the farce of a trial, with an accusation (I don't want Senator Taverna) and with a cloaking defense posed by Senator Marcucci. This is not how a matter is solved in civilized countries. Trust in the government, in the countries with parliamentary democracy, is the seal of the delegation that the people give to Parliament to ensure that the country has a government. [[Applause from Senator D'Ambrosio Lettieri]] There is trust in the government, there is no confidence in the minister. So, when a minister is replaced, he is not put to trust. Then, if there is the power of appointment, indissolubly married to the power of appointment by the President of the Republic, there is also the power of revocation. So, you stay calm. This isn't about you. It's all about Italy. The fact is that we, as in 1984 and as in 1995, are at the climax, at the apex, of a situation that I do not know whether to be the beginning of an ascending phase, such as in 1984, or of a descending phase, as in 1995. But all this must make us think that the political forces turn and turn against ourselves. 6.30 p.m. (Ferrara Mario followed). The colleagues of the 5 Star Movement know everything and certainly do not need our advice, but I, presumptuous and arrogant, will give you one. In politics everything returns: good returns and evil returns. I wonder if you have always done good when you have done good by giving judgments to the ministers who had done some sin. And who knows if now does not return to her the evil that you have done to others and of which you have scattered, like salt on wounds, Italian politics. I, at this point, have only one solution, because I cannot trust you - see the absurd question of trust - since in this way I would give confidence to the Renzi Government, indeed to the Gentiloni Government Silveri (sorry the lapsus), which I certainly did not vote for. But, in my opinion, that is not the way to tell you that you are inadequate. The way to say that you are inadequate would be a question time, as is done in civilized countries, as is done in Anglo-Saxon countries. Journalists who said there was no one in the Chamber the other day watched the footage of the French National Assembly or the House of Commons: during the general discussions there was never anyone. It is different from what happens in questions, which we do not do, because the Presidents of the Council have always, without wronging anyone in the last 20 years, not submitted to a parliamentary practice that is to come to this House and react, in the sense that they must give adequate answers to questions. And today, if we did not have this bad procedure, I would ask President Gentiloni Silveri: do you believe, in your discretion and in your choice, that Lotti has the qualifications and characteristics to be able to still be the Minister of your Government? I do not think so, and most of this House feels so. But a sensible procedure allows you to remain calm, even if not too calm. Be careful, because Brutus and Cassius are not there today, but they are in the corners around this House and in the runners to see how you will end up. It would be much more appropriate - others have already asked - for you to resign; you would continue to try to calm the climate. You will not do so, and I will be able to use the highest possible opportunity for the vote together with so many others in our Group. Not abstention, because abstention is something that we do not have in politics, since in politics we are either in favour or against. But in being present and avoiding a malicious procedure, which you started in 1984, continued in 1995 and which is now being endured in 2017. Don't worry, this time he'll make it, in the future I don't know. [[Applause from the GAL groups (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI) and CoR and Senator Rizzotti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u54	MAZZONI (ALA-SCLP). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to say gentlemen of the court, today we have had proof that history is always repeated twice, the first as tragedy and the second as farce. This obviously also applies to the history of the Jacobins in the world, from Robespierre to Beppe Grillo, which however is a Jacobin every other day, ferocious as a wolf against the magic lily, docile as a lamb with its magical ray. Here today, in the Senate Chamber, Minister Lotti has been instructed an undue trial, but it is clear that along with him, on this anomalous bench of defendants, there are two stone convitats, two shadow defendants: Matteo Renzi and renzism. Once again, in short, we choose the judicial way to settle the political accounts; a sad dèjà vu, which will once again open the doors to the Republic of Prosecutors. We prefer to stick to acts and facts. The Procurator of Naples and the Procurator of Rome are investigating the hypothesis that Minister Lotti has committed the crime of violation of the office secret, providing the council leaders with the news that he was investigating them for a suspicious round of bribes. Minister Lotti swore he did not know anything about this whole story - he solemnly repeated it today in the Senate Chamber - and asked to be heard immediately. A deputy prosecutor actually listened to him right after Christmas and then the minutes magically ended up on the pages of a newspaper. Yet Article 111 of the Constitution provides that in criminal proceedings the person accused of a crime shall, as soon as possible, be confidentially informed of the nature and reasons of the charge against him. Minister Lotti, like many others who preceded him, learned this "reservedly" from the press, indeed from a newspaper notoriously close to prosecutors. The minutes of Lotti's deposition are part of an investigation which is still at its preliminary stage and, like all the proceedings of the investigation, they should be subject to official secrecy. Nevertheless, whole passages of the interrogation, with textual sentences, have likewise come out of the judicial offices. The story Lotti is therefore the proven proof that the law has been violated, we still do not know by whom and we will probably never know. This is the first consideration. The second consideration is of a more general nature. In a civilized country, in a rule of law, no one, not even a minister, can be hanged on a warranty notice, moreover for an accusation without evidence in which the accuser and the accused say exactly the opposite. The CEO of Consip Marroni, heard from the public prosecutor Woodcock, declares that he ordered the reclamation of his offices after having learned of the ongoing investigations by the current Minister for Sport. Brown accuses Lotti, who rejects all charges. It is the word of the one against that of the other and there are no telephone or environmental interceptions that demonstrate some responsibility of Lotti as the source of the secreted news. According to press reports not denied at the moment, Marroni would now have noticed that he had issued 'unprecise and misunderstandings' statements, also because of the harsh method of interrogation to which he would have been subjected. We will see if, as the Constitution provides, he will present himself before the lawyers of Renzi's father, where he may perhaps be better able to clarify a story that for the moment is too vague to let a Minister of the Republic resign. Yes, but the judicial wing in Parliament is bringing up the so-called precautionary principle, under which Minister Lotti should step aside (as I have heard, to take a side-step) to protect the institutions. Then there is the hypocritical guarantee of those who are coming out of the Chamber today not to vote on the motion tabled by the 5 Star Movement Group, but to make a similar motion for the President of the Council to remove the delegations to Lotti. They deliberately forget the recent Italian history, that is the dramatic experience for which too many times the prosecutors, transforming the mandatory prosecution into a boundless discretion, have managed to impose the principle of the presumption of guilt of the suspects, giving rise to investigations that have then fallen on appeal or in Cassation, but after the defendants had already been condemned without appeal on the media. The question then arises: what precautionary principle protects citizens, including politicians and the institutions themselves, from the action of certain prosecutors whose investigations almost always end up in archives or dismissals and who are then promoted instead of responding to the damage done to victims and to justice itself? Here we are faced with a problem of responsibility that must always accompany and limit the power of those who make judicial investigations in order to prevent, together with the guilty, the goodness of honest administrators and politicians being destroyed. These investigations often explode in the same way as well calibrated timers, such as that of the Public Prosecutor of Potenza on the alleged malversations in the management of the Lucan oil plants, which appeared on the media circus just on the eve of a referendum and ended punctually in thin air, despite having led to the resignation of a Minister of the Republic. The investigation turned almost all around the trafficking of illicit influences: a new crime, strongly wanted by the Democratic Party, which is so vague legally to determine the possibility of different interpretations between prosecutors and judges and between judges of different degrees of judgment. This is a criminal offence in the balance between the bloated credit and corruption, perfect in its generality for making warranty notices. This is the legislature of the tightening of penalties, as evidenced by recent measures in the area of fake budget, corruption and street murder, which show the undoubted sensitivity of the government in repression, but certainly do not obey the principle of proportion. Mr Lotti, with the reform of the criminal trial approved this morning, you have extended the time limit to a great extent and this squeals with your just request, made in this House, to be entitled to a swift trial. The remedy for lengthening prescription terms is worse than evil. Other than reasonable duration of the trials: this is how justice is packaged without responsibility, in which slowness and delay are justified, sacrificing only the guarantees of the accused, first of all the presumption of not guilty, which must always apply to everyone and, today, to Minister Lotti. We have come from a quarter of a century in which the concept of justice has literally been distorted in the name of a political-judicial struggle which has become an authentic barbarism. The judicial mortgage has marked five legislatures and I believe that an entire political class should question the new judicial wave that is pursuing an increasingly criminal-based democracy. Given the too many judicial errors caused by the perennial Jacobine climate, before drawing summary conclusions it would always be necessary to wait for the final judgments. But unfortunately it is not. The Lotti case is emblematic in this sense: a warning of guarantee is enough for an unlikely hypothesis of crime, all to be demonstrated, and here is the motion of individual distrust and the request to stand aside. Unfortunately, it is a well-tested mechanism, an intolerable drift. That is why we will vote strongly against the motion of individual mistrust against Mr Lotti. [[Applause from the ALA-SCCLP Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u57	ZELLER (Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT)-PSI-MAIE). Mr President, the Senators of the Group for the Autonomies-PSI-MAIE will vote against the motion of distrust tabled by the 5 Star Movement Group towards Minister Lotti, for some reasons that we consider fundamental. First of all, we do not believe that there are grounds for incompatibility between the government responsibilities of Mr Lotti and his position in the Council inquiry. Minister Lotti has not escaped full cooperation with the judicial authority in relation to his position as a suspect. Mr Lotti claimed to clarify his position and did so as a matter of urgency, as soon as he received the news of the investigations and not only on the basis of the presentation of the motion of parliamentary distrust. He has therefore exercised his own duty and right and this strengthens his credibility as a person and as a member of the Government. On the substance, what Mr Lotti said in his statements in our opinion responds to the need for clarification. We have no reason to doubt his honesty and morality. The judicial investigations take their course and the judicial investigations are translated into acts, the assessment of which takes place in the case and not in the political sphere. The presumption of innocence applies to everyone, not only to Virginia Rays, but also to Minister Lotti. It is not by chance called, if anything, "warranty notice" and not "convict notice." The umpteenth motion of individual distrust presented by the 5 Star Movement appears, therefore, as well as unfounded in the substance, also instrumental and contradictory and for these reasons we will vote against this motion of distrust. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u60	Bianconi (AP (Ncd-CpE)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Minister Lotti, for the fifth time this Parliament is debating and voting on a motion of no confidence addressed to a Minister. Not to discourage you, ladies and gentlemen, but I simply want to say to those who have tabled the motion that statistics do not go to them either. In fact, only once, exactly in 1995, with the then Minister Filippo Mancuso was approved a motion of individual distrust. I believe that this brief passage is an example of the real value of this parliamentary instrument, which in the end is simply a means of political struggle. So I would suggest to my colleagues caution, caution. At this point, I would like to make a few comments on this parliamentary initiative by a part of the opposition. Let's start with a consideration in judicial matters. Minister Lotti has received a guarantee notice, provided by our legal system as an instrument to protect him and not as an act against him. As proof of this, this tool allows the suspect to learn about investigations against him and to defend himself, even through partisan expertise, to protect his person and, in the case, thus demonstrating his innocence. So why distrust Lotti? We are convinced that a guarantee notice cannot be considered a condemnation and it is certainly not given to the opposition in Parliament to change the essence of this procedural guarantee. So why distrust Lotti? I'll be told it's a political fact. No, not even this thesis holds up, even if served in all sauces on different newspapers and on several talk shows. For weeks, in fact, we have been witnessing dusts raised to art, through the publication of drift intercepts, decontextualized, that aim to celebrate summary processes. A media populism that goes hand in hand with the political one. In my opinion, not only politics, but also the world of information - fortunately, that is not all - should make a qualitative leap in respect for people, their dignity and democratic rules. Let's go back to Lotti. Does the motion of mistrust in question concern your work within the Government? Has he failed the Commission's action? No, the motion does not contemplate this. Then it is a political initiative, but if so, it should concern the entire Government. It is legitimate to imagine that part of Parliament is anxious to show that the Government has not responded to the expectations of the people and that it must therefore be censored by a motion of no confidence. But why, I repeat, distrust Minister Lotti and only Minister Lotti? The truth, unfortunately, is that there is little interest in judicial matters here. I would just like to remind you that the guarantee notice to Minister Lotti dates back to December 2016 and only today, after three months, has been considered the need to submit a motion of no confidence. It is clear to everyone that the objective is another: to intervene with a tense leg in the primaries of the Democratic Party and, at the same time, to try to strike the Government. I have one final consideration: to reflect on the desirability of resigning for a moral issue, an issue that has been constantly supported in recent weeks by those I would call ethical professionals. In these days, in fact, many have rushed to advise, to suggest, to propose resignation. We are convinced that no one from outside can suggest a mode of action, a code of conduct. The resignation is a motion of the soul. Within a framework of reference values there is the person, the individual and his conscience, so we do not want to participate in this discussion, convinced that ethics does not go to the ballot, but represents only the moral sphere. We can support all this because in similar situations, indeed in some cases without even the guarantee notice, members of my party have decided to take a step back. I would like to reiterate that this issue relates exclusively to individual sensitivity and no one can think, nor above all can he have the arrogance to believe that there is a meter on which to measure the opportunity to resign. How do you determine its size? Who makes it up to you? Let us leave this reflection to you, Minister. Minister, you have come to this House today to support your complete alienation from the facts that have been challenged to you, and for this reason we renew your confidence. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lotti, I should like to conclude by reminding you that a happy legal maxim teaches that when the crime is not consumed or prepared, no one can be condemned for any reason whatsoever. That is why we shall vote against the motion of no confidence tabled by our colleagues in the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the AP Group (Ncd-CpE) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u63	DE PETRIS (Misto-SI-SEL). Mr President, Mr Lotti, we have listened very carefully to your speech and, precisely because we wanted to pay the greatest attention, I would like to ask a few questions. You, in your speech, claimed first of all a kind of guaranteeing coherence of your party, or rather expressed a criticism of the past of your party, but claimed its consistency with regard to the secretary. One of the issues that we of the Italian Left have allowed ourselves to pose during the debate is precisely this. We are not, neither in history, nor in political culture, on judicial positions and on every occasion - there have been many, Minister, and you know it better than I do, in this legislature and also in the past - consistently, we have always wanted to distinguish really the plan of criminal responsibility - and therefore the presumption of innocence, as our Constitution says - from the political plan. When you claim your consistency about guaranteeing, we say you can't do that. We have had examples during this parliamentary term - I remember the Chancellors affair, but we could list many of them - where there has obviously been no proof of guarantee. So when we say that, from a political point of view, we cannot continue - and I say this in this Parliament - with alternating current guaranteeing or alternating current justiceism, depending on the convenience, we are putting a serious question that we have always asked. However, I cannot fail to blame you for the fact that other methods, other judgments have been used, and even media campaigns have been carried out for much less against political leaders of which, moreover, the secretary of your party has been in some way protagonist. The other element on which you based your speech, Minister, is a sort of conspiracy theory, which I have heard echo in other speeches by the majority. According to this theory, the bitterness with regard to him would be linked to the fact that one wants to denigrate in some way the reformist action carried out by the Renzi Government, because we refer in particular to this. I always think that, when resorting to the theory of conspiracy, it always proves - I must say, Minister, that Renzi also used this argument - a certain degree of political weakness. We in the Italian Left, in recent years, have not had to hide - and you know it better than I do - nor behind the justiceism that does not belong to us, nor behind motions of distrust placed so much to do so in the name of the transformation of Parliament into a court of law. We have continued our open-face political battle, starting with constitutional reforms, following with the jobs act - a battle that we will continue - to follow against good school and I could continue. So, I strongly advise you not to use the conspiracy theory. Another point that I will mention later is the fact that you claim to be totally foreign to the case and accused your accuser of lying. I will come back to this, because something in this whole story doesn't add up. Turning back to the core of our political reasoning, what strikes us most, what affects the citizens, is that the story, at the political level - within the courts will be tried and the truths and lies will be established - brings out a system of relationships, appointments made on the basis of relationships; a system that certainly cannot be considered absolutely transparent and also a way of understanding power. This is a way that is not to manage and govern the individual apparatuses. It has often seemed to assist - and it has also been in substance - in an occupation of power. On the appointment of Luigi Marroni, you know that we in the House participated in the question time of last week. Minister Padoan has come to answer. Mr Fassina asked, among other things, Minister Padoan to have knowledge of the type of procedures observed for the appointment of the summits of the Council and of the Council - as we would say in court - Luigi Marroni. The Minister replied by saying clearly that the procedures, which were also provided for in a directive with a short list and which had to be observed, were not complied with. The Minister made it clear that Marroni was chosen on the basis of a trust between the then President of the Council Renzi and Marroni himself. I say this not only because he is his accuser, but because it is clear to everyone that this, like other events, indicates that it was not an isolated case. It is this system that strikes the citizens the most and that we should have discussed in greater detail today. Why have we made a reference to political and not criminal responsibility? Minister, we have seen ad hoc regulatory changes to ensure that people of the Premier's trust could also have access to places to which they would otherwise not have been able to access due to the lack of the necessary qualifications. We could mention the Council of State and many other cases. We have seen a method that, for the people who look at us, is that of who assigns the places of power to friends of friends. There has been talk of familyism. This term is not only used by us of the Italian Left, who are in opposition to the previous and current government. We have heard this definition echo even in the debate that is animated by the primaries of the Democratic Party. This is the issue on which we wanted to draw attention. I now come to the Council inquiry, on which we have tabled our motion, which we will have to discuss as soon as possible in this House for a very simple reason. We ask for zero and even then someone will have to give us clarification. One thing certainly cannot exist. You, rightly for your part, said that you are alien to everything and that whoever accuses you is lying, but Luigi Marroni has not recanted his accusations at all. Then, of the two, one: you come to this House and claim total extraneousness and say that the other lies, while Minister Padoan in the House says that Marroni must remain in his place. We say it, we have said it and we will continue to say it: you cannot admit that you both speak the truth. You're going to sue, but we've asked her a question. Minister, as we have already said, in a situation such as this, and as has happened on other occasions, we would have expected - we say so not out of hypocrisy, but out of a serious and political responsibility - a step backwards, which would not have harmed your good repute, but rather would have given it to you and which you have claimed here. This meant having the opportunity to defend themselves freely. That is what we would have expected and you did not feel you had to do. This would have ennobled politics and its functions, feeling at the service of the government of its own country. People out of here are reproaching us not for the campaigns of denigration of politics, because politics is doing these campaigns on its own. They reproach us when politics is not coherent and they say they are at the service of the citizens, but then they do not understand when it is the moment when, precisely for its own good and to defend the good of being Ministers, it must take a step back. This step back, you, Mr Lotti, insist on not wanting to do so and you said so again today during your speech. Therefore, as far as we are concerned, there is no confusion between criminal and political responsibility. What we asked for was an act of political responsibility and this is consistent with our guarantee, which we have always shown. We would not have written a motion of distrust with the tones that were used by the 5 Star Movement Group, we might not have raised some issues and we really hoped that this would not be achieved. We asked for urgent information and perhaps the debate would allow a serious debate on the matter. This has not been done and therefore - and I address my colleagues - the Senators of the Italian Left, precisely because they had asked for an act of political responsibility and a step backwards that did not take place, with consistency they can do nothing else - we do not leave the Chamber, but we assume our responsibilities - but vote in favour of the motion of distrust. [[Applause from the Misso-SI-SEL Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u66	Montevecchi (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to discuss and vote on the motion of no confidence to the Minister of Sport, Luca Lotti, who we remember also has important delegations, those to publishing and to CIPE. And we do it because we think it's normal and sacrosanct. Excuse me, Minister, but there is no shameful exploitation of the instrument of the motion of distrust, but it is normal and sacrosanct - in our opinion - that the greater political force of opposition feels the political and moral duty to monitor the action of the Government and to ask a step back from those who are causing discredit to the institutions, since it is investigated for serious crimes and not for "antipathetic" crimes, as the current secretary of the Democratic Party has defined them. They are crimes for which penalties are provided for up to four years. We do so with a legitimate instrument, which is given to us by our Constitutional Charter, and we do so by defending Parliament's prerogatives vis-à-vis the Commission. We don't do it for other purposes and for other purposes. And we are not doing this to turn this House into a media grudge - to use your words - or into a court of law. None of this, because the issue is another, Minister: it is a political and ethical issue and I will get there now. What does it mean to reveal secret instruction? It means that an investigation is underway and that probably, according to what we learn from the magistrates and testimonies made by Marroni and Vannoni there is someone - you in this case - who reveals to Marroni that in his study (in the study of such Marroni) some wire was placed. Clearly, we use the conditional, because I repeat that we do not want to turn this House into a court of law. It is in fact, however, that, after this hypothesised tip, Marroni has his office reclaimed, because they actually find in it some bugs. Luigi Marroni, therefore, together with Vannoni, is one of his two main accusers, and so far has not recanted the statements he made before the magistrates. Then, as has been pointed out several times in this House, it is clear that it is legitimate to say: of the two at one, because either we are faced with a person who plays an apical role within the Council and allows himself to slander and defamate a Minister; or we have a Minister who, during a question time, does not feel to request the removal of that person from the apical office that he covers, for the alleged slanders and defamations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Forgive me again, Minister, but you, first, in your speech, clearly aimed at touching the ropes of this House, did not provide a clear answer to all the questions raised here concerning this absurd situation. And it does not appear to us - let me say this again - that any press note has been issued in which you read your concern to publicly inform citizens and people that you have brought a complaint against the alleged slanderer and slanderer. And that is why it is legitimate to have the concerns that the 5 Star Movement has expressed by presenting the motion of distrust; concerns that derive, therefore, from heavy shadows that seem to hang on its figure. I would like to remind you, Minister, that you represent the institutions and play a special role, because you have been appointed by the President of the Republic and you have sworn before the President of the Republic on our Constitutional Charter. Therefore, you cannot reduce to an easy political exploitation the concern of the greater force of opposition, which you feel - I repeat - the duty to ask you to take a step back, precisely because you represent the institutions and precisely because the institutions are not mine, they are not yours, they are not of the PD and of the majority, but they are of the citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I am surprised, I am saddened and - I am sorry - he also tells me a lot of his expression: We are waiting for you in court. What is it? Is it a threat to report facts emerging from some public prosecutor's papers? I don't know. That does not seem to me to be a happy phrase in this context. As I absolutely did not think it was a happy phrase to say that we were culturally subaltern. You leave Gramsci where he is, because you, as Minister, and your former Premier, have had Gramsci revolt in the grave several times. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Centinario]] for the policies you have pursued. So, Gramsci's subalterns, let's leave them to Gramsci. Did you then call us politically unfair because we are exercising our prerogative as parliamentarians? I'd like to know where the mischief is, Minister. But let us go back to the facts, because - I repeat - we do not intend to turn this House into a courtroom; in fact, the trials are done in the classrooms to do the trials, and to decide on the innocence or guilt of any person can only be the judges, provided clearly that the investigations are not sabotaged. Today, in this House, we are not discussing the legal and criminal aspects that you are involved in the Council inquiry. It's not that. There is no guarantee and justiceism, two words of which in these days is filling its mouth, alternately in the sitting room of "Door-to-Door," from Gruber and Lingotto in Turin, our former Premier and your current party secretary on a fixed time; a party secretary who, among other things, appears suspiciously forgetful. I would like to remind you of some of the other statements you have made in this House. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] On November 7, 2013, on the Cancelleri case, Renzi stated: "It would have been better if Chancellors had taken a step back, giving a signal at this time." And then: If I had been the secretary of the PD, I wouldn't have defended Chancellors. If she resigned, she would have done a service to the country. Two weeks later, on November 21, 2013, Matteo Renzi declared that the Minister said that the old PD would defend it and that he is right, because the new Democratic Party will not defend it and, for this reason, wants the PD to change. And I'm glad. The point, therefore, is political and ethical responsibility, because from what emerges, from the testimonies issued and from an investigation that the Neapolitan PMs are carrying out and now the attorney of Rome, it appears as if a piece of the State, a representative of the institutions, had hindered the work of another piece of the State. This is what appears, and this is the heavy shadow that - in our opinion - weighs on the figure of the Minister. Then we can't ignore it, because it's not normal. I still remember that in the end, in this House, the only interests that must be pursued are not those of the PD, of the majority or of a minister, but those of the citizens. Precisely for this reason, before concluding and talking about citizens and citizens' interests, I respond briefly to Senator Marcucci, because I do not want to divert attention from the main topic. I remind Senator Marcucci that, for the Nogarin case, that act was due, because the municipality was left by its own party with 42 million debt [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And the court just these days has righted Nogarin and the Five Star Movement. So, Nogarin deserves applause. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Mr Lezzi (M5S). And your apologies! Montevecchi (M5S). You need to tell those who write your speeches to inquire better, Senator Marcucci. I am going over the rest and the mountain of conflicts of interest, on which I might be psyched in this House, to come back to the point by saying that the 5 Star Movement has tabled this motion of distrust with conviction: it has thought of doing the good and the interests of the citizens and for this reason it will vote equally strongly. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u69	ROMANI Paolo (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is a new stage in a process that has been poisoning Italian politics for a quarter of a century. The perverse interweaving between judicial investigations, political events and press campaigns is the most powerful factor in altering the political and democratic dynamics of our country. Those who speak to you in this House represent the political force which, over the last twenty years, has been most seriously affected by this media-juridical system. Representatives of Forza Italia have been victims, but more every other Silvio Berlusconi, the leader chosen for two decades by millions of Italians to lead, from time to time, either the Government or the opposition of our country. An incredible sentence and then a shameful page in the history of this House have led to its forfeiture as a Member of Parliament; a judgment which - we are sure - will be overturned in the European Parliament by more serene and more aware judgments. We could therefore be animated by feelings of revenge - I dare say that we would almost have the right - towards political opponents who were among the protagonists of that political-judicial disaster. This, however, has never been and will never be our approach. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII]] We have said for twenty years that guaranteeing is one of the fundamental rules of our civilization; that the separation of the powers and systems of the State is the basis of liberal democracy; that all too often some prosecutors intervene on foot united in the processes of politics, and that all too often judicial events are used to discredit or destroy opponents. They are not empty declarations of principle. They are the very idea of state, democracy and civilization. And to defend these principles we went into politics. It is the essence of the liberal state in which we believe. We haven't talked for 20 years about guaranteeing our own interests. We have talked about guaranteeing everyone's interest in living in a free state, in which the rights of every citizen are guaranteed and in which the free choice of voters is not conditioned by completely foreign factors, often unfounded, sometimes instrumental. The fact that our opponents have not behaved in this way against us is not a good reason for us to adopt their own methods when we have occasion. Every time a government, a parliament, a democratically elected administration are killed not by the vote of the citizens but by a judicial investigation, this is a defeat for everyone, it is a defeat for the very idea of popular sovereignty. The political opponents are fighting in the polling stations and not in the courtrooms, and less so with interceptions, fragments of minutes, indiscretions that someone complacent in prosecutors provides to equally complacent journalists. Does this mean that there is no corruption in politics? No, of course not. In fact, maybe there's way too much. Does this mean that politicians should enjoy some form of special immunity? Absolutely not. It just means that justice is the tool to apply the law to concrete cases and it cannot and must not become the tool to moralize public life in a single sense, to decide who the good are and who the bad ones are, to alter the processes of politics. If there are shadow areas - and in this case it is possible that there are - it is right that they should be investigated. If there are culprits, they must be punished with the right severity. But no Italian citizen is guilty until his final conviction. We cannot do summary trials either in newspapers, in party congresses or in parliamentary classrooms. I don't know if Minister Lotti is or isn't guilty of any crime. I don't have the tools to know, and we're not gonna base our vote on that. That not everything was perfectly transparent in the management of power at the time of the Renzi Government, it is difficult to question it. If it is only a question of opportunity, style or other, the judiciary will apply it, possibly aseptically, without taking into account the notoriety of the inquisitions and without being influenced by the media clamour of the investigation. I just spoke of the right severity. I didn't use this word and this expression at random. I used it thinking of an expression of former Prime Minister Matteo Renzi, who, referring to the possible responsibility of his father in the investigation, said: If my father is guilty, then he deserves a double penalty. I know very well that this is an expression and it is probably not a proposal for a reform of the penal code. I also know that in some way he wanted to quote - not so much by the way - Enzo Tortora, who said something similar, but in a different context and with a different meaning, referring to himself. Yet, Renzi made a very serious mistake with that sentence: he succumbed to the profoundly uncivilized idea of exemplary justice, of the law that is not the same for all. He accepted the fork-fork logic in the hope that he would not be overwhelmed. We can't share this idea. The exemplary penalty is a concept that can work well in the Islamic State of Raqqa or in the Third Reich, but it is not a liberal democracy of the West. In the same way and for the same logic, we cannot accept the logic of distrust to a minister who, like every citizen, has the right to consider himself innocent until his final condemnation. The barbaric idea that a judicial investigation is enough to cause the fall of a minister or an administrator has poisoned the political wells in the last 20 years. Those who still support it, like the 5 Stars, but then forget about it when one of them is involved, demonstrate a conception of the state and politics that I consider absolutely incompatible with liberal democracy. But neither do I wish them these methods: I have no difficulty in saying that the mayor of Rome, Virginia Raggi, is one of the worst mayors in the history of our capital and should be driven out for this, and not for judicial gossip or itchy rumors, which have nothing to do with the way in which the city is administered. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and the Senators Casini, Di Biagio and Falanga]] I reject the media-judge outrage against Virginia Raggi, as today I reject it against Luca Lotti or Matteo Renzi; just as yesterday I fought it with all my strength and with all our strength when the victim was called Silvio Berlusconi. This is consistency for us. This is for us the way to understand the political struggle: a civil confrontation, not a fight in the mud without exclusion of blows. We realize that this attitude of ours could lead to a misunderstanding; a misunderstanding that someone, perhaps in bad faith, might try to exploit and expand. And then I want to be very, very clear: we are firmly, firmly and severely opposed by this Government. It is a government photocopied of the previous one. It is the fourth consecutive government that was not chosen by the Italians. And voters must have the opportunity, as soon as possible, to speak in the ballot box. We have said and repeated that to President Gentiloni Silveri we recognize a political style and an institutional grace that are important; but this pertains to the civilization of political custom, not to the deployments and alliances, which are quite different. Respecting an opponent doesn't mean wanting to be an ally at all. Only those who are in bad faith can support this. And only those who are in bad faith can forget that this has always been the way of understanding the opposition of Forza Italia, that of putting the interest of the country before that of part. Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion. We have talked about coherence and this leads me to deal more briefly with the second reason why we cannot vote for the mistrust of Mr Lotti. In our parliamentary history we have always refused the principle of individual distrust to a minister. It is an institute founded in 1996, at the time of the Dini Government, a government supported by the left, to strike a Minister of Justice considered then close to the center-right and especially enemy of militant prosecutors. That minister was called - as you will remember - Filippo Mancuso. Until then a rule had been peacefully accepted, which was valid for all: the activity of the Government is collegial, as collegial is its political responsibility. The President of the Council points out the Ministers - as our Constitution says - and Parliament votes for confidence in the entire Government, after a programmatic speech. This means that confidence is not to individual people, but it is to the Government as a whole and to the programme that it declares in Parliament that it wants to achieve. How, then, is individual distrust possible? It is an institutional force which, surprisingly, the Court did not consider sanctioning, but which we consider very far from the spirit and logic of our institutional arrangements. And if what we have before us, then, were the distrust of the Silver Gentilon Government, we would have no difficulty - as opposition representatives - voting on it. Similarly, we did not vote for confidence when the government took office, nor this morning when it was placed on the criminal prosecution measure. But individual distrust, as far as we are concerned, is a non-institutional sense. (19:26) (Romans Paul followed). We said that when it was used in this very House to kick out a minister who was then held close to us and we repeat it today, when we want to use it to kick out a minister who is very far from us. In politics there is a duty of coherence and dignity to which we will never fail. Mr President, the Democratic Party is also holding its congress on a judicial basis. This is not good either in politics or in the institutions. So we do not want to lend ourselves to this game, because we intend to beat it in a fair and open way so that the Italians decide that our ideas and proposals, our women and our men are more credible than theirs. We don't need puffs, we don't need them; and if we needed them, we wouldn't use them anyway. For this reason, consistently and serenely, we will not take part in the vote on the motion of individual distrust of Minister Lotti. [[Applause from the FI-PdL Group XVII and Senator Buemi. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u72	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, this debate where merit has alternated with demagogy has a political object, namely the relationship of trust between a minister in office and Parliament, linked to a delicate criminal investigation on which, however, the Senate can say nothing today, because determining who is guilty and who is innocent is not up to us, but to the judiciary. Our debate did not deserve the tones, words and arguments not related to the subject used by some senators, which we have listened to with embarrassment and, for my part, with great discomfort. Taking the cue from a final observation made by Senator Paolo Romani, I also want to make a preliminary consideration. In the past, and also with a very different foundation, I myself, like other colleagues, have tabled a motion of individual distrust of a member of the Government, but today I have many doubts that the instrument is in line with our order. Individual mistrust is not provided for in our Constitution and until 1995 Parliament has made very good use of it. [[Applause from Senator Buemi]] Then, after the motion against Minister Mancuso - as Senators Buemi and Ferrara recalled - it became a fashion, so much so that in this legislature 36 have been presented so far between Chamber and Senate. And at the Senate there is a parliamentary group that presents individual motions with the same ease with which it requests the verification of the quorum. As Senator Paolo Romani said earlier, we must be able to see things for what they are and individual distrust alters the parliamentary and representative system, where confidence should be given or denied collectively to the entire Government and not to individual ministers. I hope that we can soon start discussing this practice. We now come to the fact that the motion tabled by the Senators of the 5 Star Movement Group - like all of us - has not been able to see the proceedings of the inquiry and knows only what the newspapers have published, after a leak of news on which the judiciary ordered an inquiry and which the Vice President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary has defined a striking case that risks undermining the credibility of the investigative bodies. We have learned from the newspapers that Minister Lotti has entered into the investigation not for corruptive facts, but for an alleged violation of a secret of office which, just now, the Minister himself solemnly and clearly declared before the Senate of the Republic that he has never, in any way, carried out. The point is that we are still at the preliminary stage of the investigation and there has been no referral to trial. And of such vagueness we have been confirmed in this House today. Those who tabled the motion of censure did not bring any real legal argument that could justify it. These are vague words, the meaning of which is that Mr Lotti's presence in the government would be inappropriate. This reference to the inopportunity is written in the motion. Mr Lotti did not commit anything illegal or illegitimate, but the triggers also call for him to be distrusted for inopportunity. When the opposition comes to use, in various ways, the argument of opportunity as the main reason for a vote of distrust, then it becomes evident that their act has only a political significance. The inopportunity is used as if it were a crime, on which the sentence of guilt is not issued by a judge, but by Parliament, called to rule without knowing the facts at all. It would then be preferable to be more frank. Instead of calling into question criminal proceedings which are still at a preliminary stage, it would be more fair to say explicitly that Mr Lotti must be distrusted because he is a political enemy against whom the use of any parliamentary weapon is permissible. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senators Buemi and Repetti]] The 5 Star Movement asks it not for the outcome of an ongoing investigation, of which no one can know the outcome, but only because Lotti is a parliamentarians near Renzi. On the other hand, this debate shows this well: there has been more talk of Renzi than of the possible responsibilities that should lead to distrust of Minister Lotti. Senator Montevecchi, you are not questioning the legitimacy of the instrument of the motion, which you have rightly claimed, but if that is the reason for mistrust, then write openly that it is a political motion: we are going to have a political debate on a motion of political direction. Don't hide behind the screen of opportunity. [[Senator Marton's comments.]] I do not share the position of those who try to censor someone on the basis of unproven facts, to hurt another person politically. Using these maneuvers in Parliament mortifies politics. I call on the House and its colleagues not to read the text of the motion. It overflows with dialectical prudence, conditional verbs, expressions such as "is" or "is" accused according to journalistic reconstructions, all classical clauses of those who are not sure of what they say, nor could it be otherwise, because the thesis of the motion is based on facts not documented and not known by those who wrote it. This is a wrong way of conducting the political struggle. Let's fight about ideas, programmes, our initiatives, the big issues of government. If there is to be a personal attack, at least on real, proven and certain facts, not on indiscretions about the initial stages of an unfinished investigation. For the absence of any civil or criminal liability of Mr Lotti and for the basic reasons I have mentioned, the Senators and Senators of the Democratic Party will vote against the motion. I could stop at this explanation of vote and not add anything else, but I still have something to say, because the relationship between Parliament and justice, that the meaning of the motion directly questions, is too important because there is no mention of it here. Even in the most unfavourable circumstances, even in the face of presumptuous and provocative parliamentary behaviors, those who believe that the strength of Parliament lies in being a place of democratic confrontation, must never close to dialogue, never cease to try to understand and make clear the different points of view, even to the most irreducible political opponents. It is with this spirit that we must ask some questions to the Senators of the 5 Star Movement who have tabled the motion. Why don't they tell us what kind of state they want? What kind of democracy are they trying to impose on Italy? Does it still make sense for them to have the real and not only formal separation of legislative power from judicial power? Do they know how deep the harm that comes to justice - to true justice, that of judges and courts - from the demagogic abuse that they are doing in an attempt to turn all their opponents into evildoers? Italy is thirsty for legality, dignity, administrative correctness, clean politics and honest entrepreneurs. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] But Italy - I say this to Senator Candiani, who has spoken so much about the real country - also wants to know the guilt or the innocence from the judgments of the judges and not from the politicized motions, from the headlines of the newspapers or from illegal leaks of news. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) - PSI-MAIE]] Italy wants the right to return to the primacy of disinformation campaigns that every day try to transform the beginning of an investigation into a final sentence of condemnation. How is it that so many Members are no longer able to wait for the outcome of a judicial procedure, when we all know that the truth is always long and difficult? GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). Thirty-five years! ZANDA (PD). It is serious that Parliament, by contradicting every rule, only out of political interest, wants to distribute censorship in haste on the basis of extracts of information known through an illegal leak of a preliminary investigation. It is significant that the motion of the 5 Star Movement explicitly indicates - and I quote - the journalistic sources as the sole source of the information on which it was drawn up. Even the judiciary, which also has penetrating powers of investigation, can make mistakes, and that is why our Constitution provides for three degrees of judgment, and that is why the stages of investigation and investigation are clearly separated from that of judgment. Do you know how many men of the institutions who, after being inquisited and sent back to trial, perhaps condemned or even imprisoned, were then acquitted by the judiciary? I counted a very high number of them. With the utmost respect for the judiciary, well aware of the difficulties of the judges' work, I remember only some of the most recent: Marino, Guidi, De Luca, Penati, Cesaro, Errani, Mastella, Fussilo, Bubbico, Gasparri, Graziano, Favia and Pizzarotti. They're the ones I remembered. GIOVANARDI (GAL (GS, PPI, M, Id, E-E, MPL, RI)). And Caridi! ZANDA (PD). And let me remind you that many of the signatories of the motion that we are discussing, in front of a clear case of fumus persecutionis, in July 2015 voted for the arrest of a colleague of ours who, a few months later, saw canceled by the Cassation both the precautionary requirements and the serious clues of guilt on the basis of which his arrest had been requested. Have you ever wondered, colleagues of the 5 Star Movement, who voted for that arrest, what would have happened if even the Senators of the Democratic Party had been taken by your invitation to turn the Senate into a political court? [[Comments from the M5S Group]] If you haven't asked yourself, I'll tell you. Because of your desire to judge your opponents, that senator you wanted to have arrested should have been unjustly under ninety-nine days in prison. I remember all this to always tell the senators of the 5 Star Movement that there are many reasons to invite you to have more attention to the truth. I shall conclude, Mr President. The motion we are debating is not just about Mr Lotti but, more generally, it has a lot to do with the way in which, under the most varied circumstances, our work is to be taken up. Bringing such presumptuous issues to the debate in this House, at such a difficult stage for Italy and Europe, certainly does not positively qualify the Senate's activities. We must continue to believe in the primacy of representative democracy, but at the same time we must know that democracy is a very delicate and fragile mechanism, which can easily be weakened, first of all because of the poor functioning of Parliament, which is the centre of democracy. In order for Parliament to function well, it is necessary for the Groups and individual Members of Parliament to apply the letter and also the spirit of the Regulations with daily scrupulousness. But it also serves to show in behavior that what appears to be their political interest does not always coincide with the truth. The Italian Parliament will not be saved if it fails to abandon the habit of the daily delegitimization of the opponent by all means, forgetting that the division of powers is not a Levantine concept, interpretable according to the interests of the moment. If we want Parliament's prerogatives to be respected, we must remember that there is only one place in our system where justice is done: the court. [[Extended applause from the PD, AP (Ncd-CpE) and Aut (SVP, UV, PATT, UPT) and PSI-MAIE groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u73	Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and Rule 161, paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by appeal of motion 737, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators in favour of the motion of distrust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Zavoli, Nencini and Lanzillotta. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Formigoni is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Formigoni. PETRAGLIA, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators: Airola, Arrigoni Barozzino, Bertorotta, Bignami, Blundo, Bocchino, Bottici, Buccarella, Bulgarelli Calderoli, Candiani, Cappelletti, Castaldi, Centinario, Cervellini, Ciampolillo, Cioffi, Comaroli, Council, Cotti, Crimes De Cristofaro, De Petris, De Pin Endrizzi Gaetti, Giarrusso, Girotto Lezzi, Lucidi Mangili, Martelli, Martelli, Mineo, Montevecchi, Moronese, Morra, Mussini Nugnes Pagglini, Petraglia, Petrocelli, Puglia Santangelo, Scibona, Serra, Simeoni, Stefani Taverna, Tosato Vacciano No Senators answer: Aiello, Albano, Albertini, Amoruso, Angioni, Anitori, Astorre, Auricchio Barani, Bellot, Berger, Bertuzzi, White, Bilardi, Bonaiuti, Bondi, Borioli, Buemi Caleo, Cantini, Piacchione, Cardinals, Casini, Cassano, Chiti, Cirinna, Cocincich, Collina, Colucci, Compagnone, Conti, Cucca, Cuomo D'Adda, Dalla Tor, Dalla Zuanna, D'Anna, D'Ascola, Davico, De Biasi, De Poli, Del Barba, Della Vedova, Di Biagio, Filippino, Finocchiaro, D'Onghiosio Stefano Fabbri, Favero, Favero, Fedeli, Ferrara Elena, Filippi PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the motion of individual distrust No. 737, tabled by Senator Montevecchi and other senators: [[Senators present 219 Senators voting 215 Majority 108 Favorables 52 Contrari 161 Absent 2]] The Senate doesn't approve.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u76	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am glad that you are here, and you are well aware of the situation of the Forteto. It was on 24 January when the draft law was set up in the Commission to set up a Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Il Forteto and, to date, it has been fifty days since this draft law was stopped. Meanwhile, another trial has opened against Fiesoli, which in some way can be considered the trial Fiesoli bis, with another accusation of sexual abuse, carried out on a boy, who only today, at the age of twenty-four, testifies in the courtroom, with difficulties and tears in the eyes. The hearing is often interrupted, because the witness can not tell all the abuses suffered, as testified by some sentences extracted from his statements: "Fiesoli denigrated with false things my family," "He led me to despise my real family, after he had instilled false things in me," "He took me to his room, hugged me, groped me and kissed me, but I did not want it, I rebelled when I could." This is what some children entrusted to the Il Forteto cooperative have suffered. Another trial was opened concerning a thirty-one year old, who recanted his testimony, because he told that he was forced to false testimonies. We in this House, after having voted on the statement of urgency for the serious events that have taken place, are still firm. So, Mr President, I would ask you to put pressure, quite rightly, on your role as President of the Senate, and to push the President of the Commission, Senator D'Ascola, and the rapporteur, Senator Capacchione, to come to this House or to bring the text of the bill to the vote or to report on why it is still standing in the Commission. Victims have the right to justice and every day I will speak in this House to remember your duty. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u79	MALAN (FI-PdL XVII). Mr President, last week there was a collapse on a motorway, obviously due to an incorrect way of conducting construction work. It is a motorway which was granted until 2038 to the well-known Autostrade company and, unfortunately, despite the insistence and even unanimous request of the competent Commission, it is still not known what conditions. The concession dates back to an act of 1997, then renewed by convention in 2007, there was an additional act in 2013 and another additional act in 2015. It may be that in particular in the act of 2013 the ways in which the interventions on the viaducts are to be done are specified, such as the one that then caused the disaster and, unfortunately, also of the dead, but it is not given to know. All this was asked in my question of 9 June 1992, which was certainly not presented because of the accident which unfortunately occurred, but which dates back nine months earlier. Therefore I urge the Government to respond, because it is absurd that the conditions under which a company operates a road network that collects almost 3 billion euros each year are not yet known.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u80	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-03-15-LEG17-Senato-sed-786.ana.u81	The Senate will meet again tomorrow, Thursday 16 March 2017, in two public sessions, the first at 9.30 a.m. and the second at 16 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.25 p.m.
