ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-868.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.03 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Volpoli, Secretary, read the Minutes of the afternoon sitting of 25 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-868.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-868.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-03645 on the suspension of four workers of the Fincantieri di Monfalcone, in the province of Gorizia. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-868.ana.u4	Mr President, the issue highlighted by this Parliamentary act concerns the issue of the failure of the employer to comply with the order of reinstatement of the worker ordered by the judge, in relation to the profile of the effective readmission to the company and its possible coercion. In this regard, according to the prevailing jurisprudential interpretation, the sentence on reintegration into the workplace of the illegitimately dismissed worker has to do with an indisputable facet and as such cannot be co-executed. According to the constant orientation of the Supreme Court in the matter of reinstatement, it is indispensable and irreplaceable an active behavior on the part of the employer consisting in giving the employee the appropriate directives and measures to restore a relationship of mutual and indisputable collaboration. Otherwise, the reintegration of the worker into the payroll or freshman's allowance, the payment of social security contributions and the payment of remuneration are among the so-called fungible benefits, which are, on the contrary, likely to be enforced. That being so, with reference to the matter under consideration, the Ministry of Justice has announced that on 14 March 2017 the labour judge at the tribunal of Gorizia has pronounced four ordinances, all of analogous content and immediately enforceable. By these orders, the labour court accepted the actions brought by four workers against the dismissals of Fincantieri SpA, providing for their reinstatement, together with the payment of medium-term earnings, the reconstitution of insurance social security positions and the recasting of the costs of litigation. On 13 April 2012, Fincantieri SpA brought an action for opposition pursuant to Article 1, paragraph 51, of Law No 92 of 28 June 2012, before the tribunal of Gorizia. On Tuesday 25 July the Labour Court delivered four judgments, all of which were of similar content, with which it rejected such oppositions, establishing the illegality of the disciplinary expulsion sanction and also providing for the immediate reinstatement of workers. Fincantieri SpA was also ordered to reconstitute the insurance and contribution position of the workers and to pay them the total de facto remuneration from dismissal to effective reinstatement, within the limit of twelve months. Finally, it should be pointed out that in the present case, as dismissals have taken place under the old scheme referred to in Article 18 of the Staff Regulations, workers made redundant may claim, instead of reinstatement, a replacement allowance equal to 15 months of de facto overall pay.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-868.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-868.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-868.ana.u7	PHASE (PD). Mr Undersecretary, the situation seems to be resolved in horas, even as reported by the press today. I am absolutely satisfied with the acceptance of the employee's application by the judge and, above all, I hope that the company will reinstate them in the workplace, because it is one thing to receive the pay lot due, with the coverage of the insurance and welfare aspects; it is another thing to actually enter the workplace, which was not allowed. It seems paradoxical and unbelievable, but the salary received responded to an unpaid work benefit. This aspect seems to have been absolutely resolved and I am absolutely satisfied that the judge has intervened to safeguard the workers who at the human, ethical, moral and psychological level must be in some compensation, given the situation of discomfort they have been through in the last period. Of course, if there are disciplinary aspects, they will have their share. Thank you, therefore, for your accurate and timely response.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-868.ana.u8	The following is the question 3-03620 on the system for the award of public contracts at the Municipality of Rome. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-868.ana.u9	Mr President, with the act of inspection union in question, the Senator, after having made a summary of some passages of the testimony given by the President of the National Anti-corruption Authority, Dr. Raffaele Cantone, before the judges of the so-called Mafia Capitale trial, and after raising doubts about the content of the aforementioned statements and the documentation transmitted by the Authority itself to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome, asks the Minister to know if he is aware of the matter, whether it has been assessed the impact on the progress of the judicial activity and on the specific process and whether this Ministry intends to take inspection initiatives to ascertain any irregularities related to the matter. As is well known, the trial in question was defined at first instance by a judgment of the Court of Rome on 20 July. It, of course, exudes from the prerogatives of the Minister of Justice to express assessments of any kind of decision, of which the only device is known, and moreover in relation to the relevance and impact of a testimony on the free conviction of the judges. The story, however, was completely and independently sketched by the president of the anti-corruption authority, in a letter directed to the Ministry of Justice, in the following terms. On 22 December 2014, after the press had reported on the investigation carried out by the Public Prosecutor of the Republic at the Court of Rome, the National Anti-Corruption Authority considered to transmit to the judicial authority a first report of the verifications already arranged, in order to ascertain if they had been carried out in the past of the specific investigations on the contracts relating to social services; together with the report, the documents found in the documents of the Authority were transmitted to the Public Prosecutor. According to the report, it would have emerged that in the years 2010-2011, the Authority (at the time called Authority for the supervision of public contracts of works, services and supplies) had put in place inspection activities actually towards the Municipality of Rome, to the outcome of which had emerged a series of criticalities connected to the management of structures to be used to the reception of the immigrant citizens. At its meeting on 20 July 2011, the Authority had decided not to adopt a measure referring only to Roma Capitale, but to compare the described management methods with those adopted in other cities, carrying out further inspections. In the note sent on 22 December 2014 to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic at the Court of Rome, it was noted that no subsequent inspection activity was carried out nor in any way compared with other cities nor that irregularities, however, have been reported to the Municipality of Rome or made known to the Court of Auditors or to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic at the Court of Rome. Once further details were carried out, on October 8, 2015, the Authority communicated to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic that the verifications carried out did not reveal a substantially different picture than what was already announced on December 22, 2014; for completeness only, further documentation found in the documents was transmitted to the same Public Prosecutor. As for the findings in the body of the question, the president of the National Anti-corruption Authority notes that, contrary to what is supposed in the act of inspection union, no comparison between the management of Roma Capitale and the situation found in other Municipalities has ever actually been carried out: according to what has been observed, the resolution n. 25 dated 8 March 2012, in fact, refers exclusively to the Municipalities of Bari, Bologna, Foggia and Turin and in the same, except a generic reference to the situation of Roma Capitale, there is no trace of any comparison between the activities carried out by the Municipality of Rome and the four Municipalities inspected. According to the reconstruction offered, unlike those mentioned above, the Municipality of Rome has not been the subject of any specific resolution, nor of specific recommendations regarding the criticalities detected at the time by the office. Information was requested from the judicial authority on the specific case, through the relevant ministerial structure. The prosecutor of the Republic to the court of Rome has communicated that Dr. Raffaele Cantone has transmitted, on 22 December 2014, a note in which the hypothesis of possible irregularities in the activity carried out in the previous years by employees of the Authority of supervision on public contracts in relation to some contracts entrusted by the Municipality of Rome to cooperative companies is envisaged. The proceedings entered on the basis of that report - the prosecutor reported - were subsequently closed. A further critical profile reported by the Senator on the work of the National Anti-Corruption Authority in the case would refer to a document annexed to the note of 22 December 2014: this is a copy of the report "Social Services Awards" by Rome Capitale, GE/10/7344" file, in which would no longer appear, as in the original, the signature of the Director-General who had transmitted it on 6 July 2011 to the Council of the Authority. With regard to the criminal relevance of the discrepancy referred to in the question, any assessment of the matter is outside the powers of the Minister, since the matter is clearly referred to the judicial authority. However, the assessments made in this regard by the President of the National Anti-Corruption Authority on the incident are reported. According to the reconstruction offered, the report "Social services contracts" by Roma Capitale, file GE/10/73444, transmitted to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic on 22 December 2014, is the one signed by the manager and the instructor official, regularly registered on 6 July 2011. The same report was for completeness annexed also to the aforementioned note of 8 October 2015, still directed to the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Rome. The Authority's anti-corruption note continues: Even if the two reports are perfectly speculative in content, the second is devoid of protocol and bears the visa of the competent manager-general. The note itself gives an explanation of the episode in the following terms: Foretold discrasia is easy to understand by knowing the internal tools and working methods. In fact, since the contents of the two notes are perfectly identical, it seems possible to assume that the Director-General applied his visa to the report when the label with the protocol number already acquired through the computer system had not yet been included on the original document. The competent official, in fact, once registered the document - it remains in the proceedings of the Authority in electronic format and is therefore unchangeable - must bear the corresponding protocol number on the original document. This can be done either by printing the label or by physically rewriting the number on the document. It can therefore be assumed that the Director-General's visa was affixed when the protocol number had not yet been physically transcribed to the original document. This hypothesis is also supported by the statements made by the Director-General before the Internal Inspection Commission; he stated that he had applied his visa on 8 July 2011 and that the document was registered on 6 July 2011. The Procurator of the Republic to the Court of Rome has communicated that, as a result of what is proposed in the question, a pattern 45 procedure has been entered into the pending state. The whole story, therefore, appears to be examined by the judicial authority both with regard to the evaluation of the statements made in witnessing by the president of the National Anti-corruption Authority, and with regard to the documentary discrasia to which reference has been made. At this stage, therefore, the premises for any kind of intervention by the Ministry do not appear to be used.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-868.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-868.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-868.ana.u12	Mr Barani (ALA-SCLP). I thank the Undersecretary for the answer that obviously does not find me completely satisfied also because the former Mafia Capital process there was, we saw how it ended and of course it turned out that there was a real system that intervened on the contracts. The question was intended to shed light on this and, above all, the questioner looked at the depositions made in that process. Then the Undersecretary said that documents are circulating, either with signature or without signature, and that in the testimonies rendered were omitted, perhaps out of distraction, probably important and relevant news. The question was submitted on 28 March 2017, after the trial and a judgment. The questions that we have seen raised by the defenders of the accused to the president of the National Anti-corruption Authority concerned the note of 22 December 2014, sent by the same to the attorney-in-chief of the Republic of Rome, with which it was denounced that the Supervisory Authority, after having examined a report on 20 July 2011 on the contracts of Rome Capital with social cooperatives, provided by the supervisory management, works, services and supplies of the first, had postponed the examination without carrying out any subsequent inspection or comparison with other cities or contested anything in relation to the illegalities found there. However, in that deposition he was forgotten to report - because I did not find him, now said the Undersecretary and I would have liked to see him in that trial, in that deposition - both to the prosecutor and in the testimony to the trial, that with the resolution n. 25 of 2012, published on the site, the Supervisory Authority had instead concluded the investigation on public contracts of social cooperatives with disputes to the municipalities examined among which Rome Capital. We have not made a simple reference. The investigation ended and all the illegitimacy detected emerged and moreover, with management decision n. 3 of 2012, published in the Official Gazette n. 185 of 2012, that the Subsecretary can consult, the Authority had issued the appropriate guidelines in this matter, recommending the use of notices and tenders in compliance with competition and the Code of Contracts and in spite of that the legislator, with Law n. 135 of 2012, had then intended to heal those same illegitimateities even formulating special derogations also for the future. So, we healed them, but they were there before. We believe, therefore, that in the most relevant deposition of the acts transmitted by the same Authority, from the same presidency to the proxy, the report of 20 July 2011, published on the website of the newspaper "Il Fatto Quotidiano" on 15 September 2015, and which can be downloaded, was cancelled the signature of the general manager who had initially proposed to postpone the survey on social cooperatives. It wasn't missing, it was erased. Signature that, on the other hand, appeared in the original transmitted to the members of the Authority. In conclusion, Mr President, since the Sub-secretary referred to that report "Social services contracts by Roma Capitale dossier GE/10/73444" with which the Director-General, by note of 6 July 2011, No 72.392, had invested the Council of the Authority, file not forwarded to the Public Prosecutor, notes that it contained no reference to the cooperative in Buzzi, but mentioned only the following associations not involved: the Arciconfraternita, the Cooperative Artemisia, the Centro Enea, and others. It was five associations that had nothing to do with it. These circumstances, if correctly and faithfully reported to the authorities, could have been helpful to the investigation, but were inexplicably or distractedly not reported. That's why we asked the Ministry if it was appropriate to start investigations, but we saw that they didn't want to open their eyes, but to close. We brought in irrefutable data. Things have been said that could not be said. What was to be said instead and that it was necessary to say was not said. We cannot say here: there is no signature. It was deleted, but the copies remained distracted, which ended up with members of the Authority and members of the committee, where the signature was present. Certainly there, in the opinion of the honourable Member, was wanted to cover someone or something and we asked (of course the judicial authority will then think about it, far from me wanting to interfere) the Minister and the Ministry if it considered it appropriate to clarify. He did not consider it appropriate and therefore we are absolutely not satisfied. Transparency is not satisfied, the legality is not satisfied, because we believe that perhaps there is no crime, but we wanted to know why some documents are circulating with signature and others without signature, because some documents are given and no others are given. Perhaps out of distraction, perhaps because as we grow old we all lose memory: this is also an explanation.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-868.ana.u13	I note that Senator Girotto has informed the Presidency that he wants to turn the question 3-03526 into a written question, which will take the number 4-07908. Question Time on the agenda is thus over.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-868.ana.u14	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency will be published in Annex B to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2017-07-27-LEG17-Senato-sed-868.ana.u15	The Senate will meet again in two public sessions on Tuesday, 1 August, the first at 11 a.m. and the second at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.29 a.m.
